ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 3rd issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u2	Mr President! Indeed, the basis for this debate is the issues on which a debate was already held in yesterday's plenary session... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u5	We will take Mr Viitanen and Mr Uotila's speeches and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u6	Mr President! I was prepared to discuss this motion for wind power in this section, but since it seems that these will be taken together with the next one, I will leave this wind power a little less and just say that we are committed to it as the SDP because we felt we could make a significant contribution to this committee's report. These two impetuss, which are being presented here and which we hope will now be adopted unanimously, will ensure precisely that the government has to start preparing a model which, overall, will safeguard the future of renewable energy sources, including wind power. These came from our proposal and are based on our texts in the tax section of the Committee on Finance. President! Then let us go to this second subject, which we have already discussed for a long time in this Chamber yesterday. It is a good thing that the government parties there in the committee now gave up this compulsory property tax, which the SDP also felt was a completely foolish proposal. We considered it unfair, we considered it unfair and we drew attention to the increase in housing costs with this and, in particular, to this regionally uneven distribution of this tax overall. This would have been the third time a government has been forced to increase its property tax. When other tax policies can afford to reduce the taxation of millions of inheritances and lower the taxation of large forest holdings, just a little bit, at the same time, the cost of living for a small person would have been increased. Fortunately, the government came to its senses here, and I continue to claim that the word spoken is strong. I believe and hope that it has been important that the opposition has also played its part in the debate, actively participating in the debate and appealing to the government to withdraw this proposal. So here we go. I am sure we will continue the debate from this point of view. President! Now, I'm going to this SDP sequel: We were pleased that this unfair, unfair buy-in of property tax was lifted. Good. But since that lower limit is now gone, [Heckling] the confusion was quite great for us when we wondered why the government would then leave this increase in the ceiling in force. The Simplest of all
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u8	Mr President! Now that these two things are being discussed together, there must be pressure for that five minutes. Let's see. I'll try to sum it up anyway. The Left Alliance has now been the only party in the Committee on Finance not in favour of increasing the tax on wind power through property taxation. The proposal is poorly prepared and, in many respects, it is also problematic from the point of view of its time. The current production aid for wind power will end at the turn of next month, and at least we do not have any precise information on the new support model for renewable energy in the opposition. It is clear, however, that in terms of wind power it is fundamentally different from what it is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u13	It is now possible to ask for replies by pressing the V button and they will start by Mr Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u14	Mr President! This proposal has been prepared in a perfectly normal way by the Tax Section and the Committee on Finance and has reacted to this increase in taxes which the economy itself knows about, also on the property tax side. Now the total tax rate in Finland is falling. This is a major change, and the taxation of labour is, in principle, the tax that we must reduce, but there are problems with property tax as well. As we know with regard to the low incomes, it is even an obstacle to investment in the less profitable sectors, such as agriculture. Mr President! I have not seen such vain protests from the Social Democrats here. It tells us a lot about the opposition policy of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u15	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to this technological neutrality of real estate tax. It is best not to divide energy forms in the way they produce its energy, and now, in this case, the property taxation of individual windmills has changed to the taxation of wind farms, bringing energy forms closer to one another in their property taxation. There is, of course, another thing about how we support the future and forms of renewable energy, and there is also its own form of taxation, as set out in these ponies, and everyone there in the tax section and in the committee has joined forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u16	Mr. Speaker! In connection with this second issue, the opposition of the Finns on the issue of raising the property tax on housing, among other things, was ready, and our starting point and objective was exactly what became the committee's report, which is to say that we are very pleased with it. After all, in accordance with the Government Programme, 100 million has already been achieved by real estate tax. I am therefore surprised that, in this situation, the government proposed such an increase in housing costs, which would have hit the most vulnerable. It tells us that the government's time is irresponsible in this respect, so it is really good that this is not what happened. An increase in the ceiling on real estate tax is not a problem in itself, since municipalities have the possibility today and it is justified by their autonomy to raise it to the current ceiling and to a higher level thereafter,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u17	Mr President! Yes, listen, it is now that, when the ceiling is raised, it gives municipalities the possibility of higher taxation. When the upper limit is pushed up, it means that unfortunately there will be another cold government that will draw that tax, and that will put pressure on the municipalities to lift it up. We are now heading towards regional reform, and the provinces will need funds, the municipalities will need funds. Where's the money coming from? Instead, I wonder enormously — I am going to go a little further here, even though it is the same — while we are now in the process of an overall reform of the property tax, the gentlemen are busy in this country. This reform has been going on for several years and now we need two more years before any decisions can be taken before we can even get the proposals or examine the matter. Then, until it reaches this hall to complete the legislation, it will take three or four years. Until then, grandmothers and papals pay overtax on property that has lost its value all the time, which weakens their chances of living.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u18	Mr President! Real estate tax has generally been regarded as a good form of taxation on assets, so it is fair. It has often been pointed out that economists believe that the shift from income tax to real estate tax, for example, creates efficiency and needs to be supported. The government's modified proposal is merely an increase in the upper limits, which is, of course, a perfectly good measure, but with little effect. The original government proposal would have included these thresholds too, and the new one is very small in effect. This proposal does not provide an estimate of tax revenues in this new form. A question could be asked when the government wanted to make up for the reduction in early childhood education fees by raising these thresholds: How does the government intend to finance this same thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u19	Mr President! I understand very well that the opposition is plagued by this good government decision to abandon these. [ Hustles from the left] As far as this increase in the ceiling on real estate tax is concerned, that is only an opportunity for municipalities. No one would wish that any municipality would be in such poor oxygen that it would have to use this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u20	Mr President! I have to say, after this government, no one can help but say that the only thing missing is a pack. It has been welcome here too. I would applaud and shout cheers if it were appropriate to the behaviour of a congressman, but I will not do so at this point. It is good that the property tax case went as the government has now set out in this new decision, whatever the outcome. The other way around, the real estate taxes... And in the case of renewable energy, these forms of support have not been introduced in the same rhythm as in the case of wind power, which, as my personal opinion, attracts municipalities to take wind turbines into their territory, so I do not in itself criticise it. But hopefully not for many years, as Mr Tolppanen thought, this unfair valuation of real estate. There are so many widows in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u21	Mr President! It is certainly to be welcomed that this compulsory withdrawal of the lower limits was not carried out, and in that sense the municipalities will then be left with a narrower range from 0.41 to up to 1%. As someone said here, there may not be that tax rate in any municipality at the moment, 0.75 may be the highest that is in use, and in 0.70 there may be only a dozen, especially for the real estate tax rate on these permanent dwellings. But here we have rightly drawn attention to this anomaly, which is particularly the case in those sparsely populated areas, which means that these tax values and market values are on a completely different track, and in that sense this reform would be very important to implement. It has just been said here that many low-income widows and pensioners are facing problems with these property taxes because the technical values of these buildings are exactly the same, were in growth centres or there in periphery.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u22	Mr President! I am surprised at this line of the SDP or, in fact, the lack of line. You here praise this removal of the lower limit, but then you pretend to be a wreck. And, contrary to what you said in your speech, Mr Viitanen, the lower limit was not completely abolished. Maybe it was a misunderstanding. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u23	Mr President! I do think that if anyone has said that criticism of the opposition is in vain, then this proposal has been the most pointless. However, since the end result is that nothing changes, does this drama need to be played again? However, it is a good thing that ended well in the fact that this compulsory withdrawal of the lower limit was lifted. But I am a little surprised, Mr President, that it has just been said here that there are new estimates of tax revenue: There is nothing new about this when the government has had an argument and this proposal has been made. Preliminary data says from March that the tax due would be 1804 million and then confirmed 2.10. says that it is 1794 million, or more or less the same — this estimate has even come down a little bit, not upwards. I'm a little surprised that when this has been known and nothing new has happened, the government suddenly finds out that, hey, we've got new reviews and we've got to cancel this. You should've looked at the reviews by then and left this for nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u24	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her excellent speech and for the fact that if you could applaud, you would applaud the government at this stage. To Mr Viitanen, I do not understand what the play is. The Government Programme was to increase the property tax by EUR 100 million during the Government term, and now that this increase in the lower limit does not have to be made when the return has been better than expected for next year, it will not be done. The expert assessment is available and, based on the information examined, the decision will be amended if necessary. Is this not what the left-wing opposition on many other issues has demanded that experts be listened to and made informed decision-making? That is what is being done here. It is wonderful that you agree with the government that there is no need to do this at this stage to raise the threshold, but in that sense I am surprised at this motion for rejection that if you do not feel that there is now a need for a larger play, why do you arrange the play?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u25	Mr President! Yes, yes, Mr Elo, I say that there is a play going on. Here's a blue and dark play going on. The committee's draft reports as such are very good and, above all, the amendments tabled to them. Once again, I do not understand the SDP's rejection proposal, because it actually reduces the autonomy of the community. But then, on the other hand, the SDP did an excellent job on this draft report on wind power, in which these statements were then brought in. The wind power show is good. It increases acceptability in municipalities, it brings income to many municipalities in Northern Ostrobothnia: Ii was probably the most winning municipality, and Kalajoki and others are involved there. Finally, I should like to say that at this stage we are also thinking about making an effort to ensure that the government does not unduly increase the housing costs of the most disadvantaged and low-income groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u26	Mr President! Yes, there is a tragic play going on here, the manuscript of which, of course, comes from there, especially through the SDP opposition, under the theme of 'bad decisions are the government', and good decisions are the opposition'. Well, that's how this parliamentaryism works, I guess. Real estate tax is a tax based on the value of land and buildings, which is finally decided by the municipality. It is also quite reasonable that real estate taxes should not be increased too much, because it is clearly reflected in the cost of people's housing — and especially since this appreciation is still open at the moment, because the value of buildings does not take account of regional differences, but that the value of buildings is based on the same values throughout the country, so it is not right. In that sense, yes, when this proposal initially started because of the compensation for the planned changes in early childhood education fees and now that the economy is growing through the measures of the Sipilä Government, this tax increase is not needed. Let us all welcome it and move on from this point of view. But this question of appreciation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u27	Mr President! In the public domain, it has often been pointed out that raising the property tax would increase the prices or rents of dwellings. That's not true. If you think there are two plots, one of which is so expensive that it raises the price of a square by a thousand euros, and next to it is a property that is free and is built with completely identical houses, then the builder who has built the house on a free property does not sell those apartments at a price of 1,000 euros per square metre, but sells it at as much as he can sell. In other words, demand in the market determines the prices of dwellings. The increase in real estate tax does not increase rents or increase the prices of dwellings. It increases housing costs for people who own their homes, but in the long term the impact will also decrease, which means that the increase will only be visible for a short time. Real estate tax is an excellent tax, it is worth raising, especially in the event that this relief is targeted at reducing the tax burden on labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u28	Mr President! The Coalition Party will never support tax increases if they are not necessary. [Laughter — Chattering]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u29	Mr President! Many people here have criticised the opposition policy of the SDP, but I believe that this debate and the fact that Parliament does not accept this motion by the government, the Minister of the Coalition Party, demonstrate it — the Sipilä Government has shown it, and this decision demonstrates it — that the opposition can also be influenced. This list is very long, by the way. The Sipilä government is the best example in history that the opposition can also be influenced. There is a cancellation of the programme to combat the shadow economy, there is a cancellation of the reduction in the housing allowance for the pensioner. The Coalition Party proposed an increase in the fees for day care, and after a long debate, a reduction was reached. Mr President! We are particularly pleased that this imposition of property taxes, the imposition of lower limits, has now been lifted. I understood that the centre came here, perhaps due to a change of rhythm, earlier on the line and lastly here was a harassing against the coalition, but fortunately the coalition that has been pushing for this increase in property taxes, a tightening of the taxation of the work of families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u30	Mr President! Now we must remember that the total tax has indeed fallen. Tax revenue received by the State has increased. Every time there comes a single tax law, we here in Parliament have a rather messy conversation. However, one should remember the whole. Everyone is talking about reforming the tax road map. How do we start reforming the big road map with these snacks? From the point of view of municipalities and taxpayers, it is entirely irrelevant whether these articles, Articles 11, 12 or 13, were amended on Monday or Tuesday or Wednesday or Friday. It is important for this matter to be dealt with in Parliament and now to be decided. It's crucial. So let's focus more on that big road map and talk less about these individual changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u31	Mr President! I don't know if this was originally written as a comedy or a tragedy, but it was a happy ending anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u34	Mr President! Although the withdrawal of the increase in property tax has also been rejoiced through the media, I cannot fully agree with this joy. Real estate tax is a good tax with stable returns and difficult to circumvent and also helps to improve the efficiency of land use, especially in the capital region. It is quite right to ask whether it is worth raising the property tax now that the property tax is being reformed as a whole in three years' time. In my view, however, the reform of the property valuation procedure is necessary and the increase in the property tax before the reform should be compensated as income transfers to the categories of people affected by the increase in the property tax. Taxation is always a whole, and it is always necessary to ensure fair distribution of income through transfers. In practice, the fact that the value of the property does not correspond to the real value of the property, which is why the situation that the value of the property is falling and the taxation is still tightening, can be managed through the reform of the valuation procedure and, on the other hand, the increase in housing costs can be managed through transfers of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u35	Mr President! I have to wonder about the real estate tax line of the left-wing union. You are prepared to increase the property tax on housing and you are pleased that this ceiling on property tax is raised, which was also a government proposal, but instead you are not prepared to increase the property tax on wind power. The majority of wind power output goes to international venture investors even if it could generate capital income for the provision of basic services. This is, to put it mildly, a very inconsistent line for your property tax policy regarding wind power property tax. Fortunately, the rest of the opposition has started from the fact that this good government proposal means that the municipalities will receive tax revenue and also increase the acceptability of wind power by including it in this property tax category of the power plant. Very surprising and, you might say, for ordinary Finnish residents
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u36	Mr President! It is rather ironic when representatives of government parties accuse the opposition of being inconsistent with the real estate tax policy, [of the Centraldustry Group: It's not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u37	Mr President! Representative Viitanen, this is not the National Theatre, this is the Finnish Parliament. It is perfectly normal legislative work to make changes to legislative proposals in Parliament. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance explained the reasons why this amendment was made. Perhaps the lack of time left it to say that this is also a question of urban policy, that the cost of living has risen faster than the income available to citizens. It was reasonable that this increase in the lower limit should not be made because it would affect housing costs. I am in favour of a real estate tax reform; that is an important thing to do. But I say to the SDP that if all the proposals in the Finnish Parliament were withdrawn, which you object to, nothing would happen here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u40	Mr President! I would take a little bit of that wind power and I would like the SDP to understand how expensive wind power will be for us, for example. In the spring, the National Audit Office stated that this aid, which is given to wind power, has fallen on the back of the state and taxpayers and has cost us between EUR 2 and 3 billion and must be brought to the same line. Similarly, there has been a debate on the health effects of wind power, and I have not yet received an answer; I have sometimes asked that the government should take forward that study on this issue. This must be taken seriously because, according to the Constitution, people also have the right to a safe environment. As the representatives of the Finns Party, Kangasniemi and Vähämäki, pointed out, we are very pleased that the government does not now force the municipalities to raise the lower limit. By the way, the House of Homes Association also took it by its own name, so that many people are about to take their names, and this is good. Thank you to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u41	Mr President! The Social Democrats have consistently sought a sensible line on this question of supporting wind power. We want more renewable energy; that is what we need to achieve our climate objectives. But we want it in a balanced way and so that investment will continue to be secure in the future and we will have this long-term approach. That is why it was excellent that the committee unanimously approved the efforts of the Social Democrats to achieve these objectives. We also believe that this is a better way to promote renewable energy than, in this situation, to reject this proposal altogether. It was an extremely good thing that the committee as a whole welcomed this, so that the construction of wind power in Finland will continue to be worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u42	Mr. Speaker! Wind power park thinking is the right way to go when we want to increase renewable energy, and that is why the decision now being taken is the right one. As far as property tax is concerned, what has happened here and what is amazement on both sides is a case in itself, but this road is quite right because the evaluation procedure is being re-opened in real estate. Only the social democrats, along with the apparently leading municipal officials, are dissatisfied when they have to draw up a budget in a completely different way when this kind of tax was lost. But thousands of elected representatives in the municipalities will certainly be satisfied not to face what they would have to do there in the face of many citizens’ opposition to that tax increase. Yes, I welcome both the proposals that the Committee on Finance has now made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u43	Mr President! Above all, I wonder what the Greens are saying about the fact that the property tax does not increase the rent or, in fact, the maintenance costs of housing. It is true that the property tax does not increase rents if it is directed at the ground floor or the building court or even an unused building right, it does not increase rents, but if it is applied to that property, it does increase rents if the landlord wants the same return as before. The core issue here is that, in any case, all single-family residents are also subject to different electricity prices and higher district heating prices, this pressure is everywhere. This is a very good decision from the government that this threshold was not increased and that this freedom of choice is given to the municipalities to act on it, because they are professionals and know the way in which these buildings are to be or should not be taxed. But the other thing that is the bigger question, which should be discussed, is the lack of access to housing. Yesterday we spent the night of the Homeless, and it reminds us that there is much
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u44	Mr President! The Greens are very pleased with these statements, which have been added to this bill on real estate tax for wind power plants. It is important that these statements are also taken seriously and that the government is urgently preparing a model for promoting investments in renewable energy. It is important that we continue to invest in wind power at a high level, but in itself that the property tax on wind power is raised, we consider it to be the right move from the point of view of the acceptability of wind power. It is good that wind power will also generate additional revenue at the local level. But, indeed, these statements should be taken seriously and put forward this programme as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u45	Mr President! I think that this proposal for wind power in this government proposal is particularly good and that the various forms of energy must also be treated equally for tax purposes. We need to make the wind power support fairer. But I am very surprised at this debate that this law would also be a kind of compulsory property tax, because the increase in property tax is mainly the responsibility of the municipal councils, and quite a few of us are also sitting on the municipal council in their own municipality, and this law does not in any way require us to change the property tax if it is in place at the moment, but it is possible that this bill is, of course, a good one. This market value of real estate has also been raised here, which should be updated, and it would be very important and good, and it would also be very important in regional policy for the values of real estate to be updated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u46	Mr President! Interesting discussion in Kotka: all taxes were decided last Monday. A little late for that in this regard. This increase in the lower limit may not be, as Mr Pakkanen said, for the municipalities themselves to decide, because 170 municipalities would have had to do this because they would have had to do it — those municipalities whose economies did not need it would have had to have it if the bill had passed. 170 municipalities in the face of forced withdrawal, and that is why it is, of course, understandable that this should be withdrawn. An interesting feature of this has been the sudden link between early childhood education fees and property taxes. And the question still remains — since this estimate has not changed the return on real estate tax — which will be EUR 25 million for municipalities to add that reduction in early childhood education contributions will remain, which is a good thing, but this additional return from this area of real estate tax will not come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u47	Mr President! This amendment to the so-called Small Power Plant Act, which is currently under discussion, mainly affects the taxation of wind farms, must indeed be supported. The presentation brings the different types of power plants to a large extent on the same line and therefore makes sense in terms of equality. Even though individual wind turbines are not yet covered by this higher tax, the proposal will, however, bring back to the taxpayer even a small proportion of the high-end wind power supply tariffs, and that is quite right. As far as the government's second proposal to change the lower and upper limits of real estate tax rates is concerned, the final report of the Committee on Finance is considerably better than the original proposal of the government, which would have forced more than half of Finnish municipalities to raise the general property tax and dozens to increase the tax on permanent residential buildings. This would inevitably have led to higher housing costs and numerous tax increases,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u48	Mr President! I would not care to start remembering the last parliamentary term if I did not notice a significant contradiction in the way the SDP is talking about property tax now, compared to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u49	Mr President! Yes, I would ask more about whether it is right to keep getting up, constantly being raised up. [Laughter — intermediate calls] It's not right. It is just not right, Mr Kaikkonen, that many families with children are being disciplined both in the form of this property tax and now, for example, by increasing taxes on families with children again just next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u50	Mr President! The SDP seems to be opposed to everything the government proposes. The government proposed a discount on car tax. What did the SDP do? The SDP objected to the reduction in car tax. Now we hear nothing when, in fact, because of this car tax discount, the car dealership is fine. What's happening? Tax revenues are clearly higher than before this tax reduction. In other words, the SDP objected to the measure which enabled revenue to be increased to the state treasury.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u53	Mr President! We make a lot of well-meaning decisions in this house, the outcome of which is different from what we thought, if we do not understand how the market economy works. This debate on real estate tax is a good indication of that. Prices on the market are not determined by the cost of the landlord, for example, but by the price depending on the demand and supply, the amount of the tenant’s ability to pay and the willingness to change to it, regardless of how the costs of this homeowner are distributed. Similarly, housing prices have not risen as wage levels rise, but as low interest rates and people believe in the future and dare to borrow more. In other words, the demand side determines the price of the dwellings. There is no point in running away from this law, because it leads to bad results here. Real estate tax is an excellent tax. All economists say it is the best tax, it is worth raising it as long as other taxes are calculated and the total tax burden does not rise too high. And I saw from the green corner one more time:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u54	Mr President! In a good play in the second part before that third part, or end, there will always be some kind of revelation. Mr Kaikkonen made a fine revelation to this, to which silence was a sign of consent from Mr Viitanen. So this is how the demos then operate in the government and now they do things differently in the opposition. As far as the reference made by Mr Vähämäki to our future party is concerned, I would like to take it as a compliment from you on the support cards we have collected, thank you for that. And in this context, I recall with inspiration that when the Government Programme was decided on in 2015, you were also deciding that during the Government term EUR 100 million would be raised by an increase in property tax. Well, now that it's happened, that money has come anyway, of course, we're not going to go up the lower limit. It's a sensible decision-making process. I wonder at the Greens' line in this regard that here Aalto and Vartia suggested that they would be the only ones who would support such an increase in property tax, which the government does not want to bring to this table at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u55	Mr President! Representative Sarkomaa stated that this is not a National Theatre. But quite a few Members of the Assembly are currently in this debate, one might say, to play an important role in Oscar's character.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u58	Mr President! This tragedy played by the SDP is now getting a little comedy features when these increases in real estate taxes came to you when you were in the government, but now that the lower limit is not even raised, you will not get this presentation. And yet, if you look at the situation in the municipalities, this increase in the ceiling will give them greater opportunities to manage their own finances, and many municipalities have kept their property tax there at a low level, as can be seen here. So there's no need to lift it up there, either. To the Greens, I would like to say that your views on the situation of real estate tax in relation to income tax, for example, are quite correct, but I am very surprised at this idea of compensation in relation to this tax reform. How did you think this could work? However, when the municipalities make these decisions, how could the state at this point produce this compensation? I don't quite understand what you're trying to do with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u59	Mr President! The wisest of government decisions seems to be cancellations. In fact, cancellations have become the hallmark of this government. It is quite amusing to listen here — even when the assembly here has wanted and proposed this increase in property tax — how now, in a certain way, when they cancel, they pretend that they did not want to do so. Well, then, why does the government do something if they don't want to do it? I mean, this government is absolutely indecisive. This is where we see this weak level of legislation, and it does not make it any easier for you to decide anything. Even in the reform of the alcohol law, you do not know how to make decisions, a very small percentage of the pigs. After all, living in Finland is too expensive as it is now, and rents are as high as they are. That protest from the SDP is all show and not even worth Oscar's money, because I don't think it's the SDP right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u60	Mr President! When you listen to that opposition debate by the demars here, it is quite true that there is a party with the right papers at the wrong time and the wrong papers at the right time. However, the papers are sweetly confused, so once and for all at the time of what is being done or what is being done in politics, there are always false papers. I very much hope, ladies and gentlemen, that one day you will have them in order. But one day, when you look, all of this is shown in the budget book, such as the reason why the increase in the lower limit of property tax was cancelled. After all, everything can be seen from this budget statement in the budget book. Everyone has a plus, and corporate tax will be as high as 18% next year. In other words, the economy is recovering at a ferocious rate, increasing tax revenue for both municipalities and the state and, above all, for citizens, increasing purchasing power. This is what you are heartburning, and you are afraid to say this out loud, but I will tell you this now anyway. It is worth paying attention to the accounting and recognising the facts that appear
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u61	Mr President! I too was a little unclear about this green tax line, so I did not quite understand how this valuation procedure would change the situation and could restore this compensation, because it is, however, an equal tax, or how that refund would then become progressive. I have to say that in Mr Vartia’s speech — I myself have been trained in economics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u64	Mr President! Perhaps the most important thing is that taxation is always a whole. Every time tax reforms are introduced, we should consider how this affects the distribution of income as a whole. Transfers can compensate people for the losses caused by some tax increases. It seems to me that everyone in this Chamber has agreed that a reform of the property valuation procedure is needed, and everyone has taken full account of the extent to which increases in property taxes may affect different groups of people. It is much smarter, for example, to increase the basic deduction of municipal tax, to increase the net benefit for people on low incomes, and yet, through it, those minus marks are a whole and can strengthen the financial position of people on low incomes and then be better able to compensate for the situation. When you think about any income transfers, you look at the total of the minuses below the line, the pluses. You always have to look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u65	Mr President! People have been wondering why there are protests when the lower limit does not rise. But when the upper limit rises. It has now been heard here by several representatives of the government parties that it allows municipalities to increase property tax. On the other hand, you say that no one is using this when the ceiling has not been used, and another mouthpiece says that it is an opportunity. At this point, the legislator must have some responsibility. We have poor municipalities where there are no valuable properties, where there are very many granny cottages and front man veteran houses, and there is a widow or a lonely woman living there in very many places, and then when the property tax is raised, it is out of that daily bread. It just works like this. Then the fact that, when costs are raised, they would not be paid by something: yes, at least in our house they will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u66	Mr President! Why should it be called when experts are carefully consulted in Parliament, when there are discussions on the effects, when the very last information is obtained on what is, for example, tax revenue, and then in the tax section this is carefully done and the committee's co-operative chairman negotiates with the government and comes to such a solution? What should I call it? Is it a weird play, or is it good parliamentary work? I say that it is good parliamentary work, it is democracy, it is democracy. Let us be proud of our work. Then, to Mr Paatero: for the first time, it is the whole of the public finances of the local government. That's what the government's been doing. We are not saving now at the expense of the municipalities, moving money from one pocket to another, but looking at the whole and this tax revenue. In this way, this reduction in early childhood education, which is targeted at low incomes, has been well compensated in three ways for the municipalities. Be happy in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u67	Now, at this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to those who have not yet made it out loud, and then we will see if there is still a need for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u68	Mr President! The entry of wind farms into real estate taxes is an excellent thing, as this will approach the way these other forms of energy are taxed and, at the same time, the attractiveness of municipalities to invest in wind power will rise. Similarly, keeping the lower limit on real estate tax is also a good thing, as it would have increased housing costs, especially for those who have run this country and continue to run it. In other words, it can be said that the government was on the basis of the values of the Finns. But, as Mr Paatero said earlier, this week, for example, we in Kotka and many other municipalities have already decided that it was not yet possible to influence this need. But to the debate whether this is a show, a comedy or a tragedy: yes, the right word, if you know theatre art, is a farce.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u69	Mr President! The transfer of wind power plants to the taxation of power plants is a welcome reform for them and also for the reason that, when wind power farms began to be built in municipalities, quite a few municipalities estimate that their tax revenue would be equal to the power plant tax, i.e. much lower than estimated in practice. As regards the non-increase of the lower limit of property tax: that was the decision-making power of the Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u72	Mr President! There are two sides to raising the property tax on wind power: The other side is that the sector itself is afraid that it will slow down the construction of wind power. The other side is, then, that it is likely to increase the consensus in municipalities about the construction of wind farms, because it increases the revenue of municipalities. — It is true that when the current feed-in tariff was drawn up under the leadership of the then Minister Pekkarinen, it was not taken into account the speed with which the price of wind power technology is falling, it has become practically overcompensating. That is why the Greens are not particularly protesting against this increase. As far as this other property tax is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that property tax is an excellent tax for not being circumvented. You can't hide properties abroad. However, it is the ones that are most strongly targeted at,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u73	Mr President! With regard to property tax, it has been said that it is a property tax that does not take into account wealth, and to this day I have assumed that almost everyone believes that it is, in principle, a bad tax rather than a good tax. However, I have now heard a little different, and the Greens have, on several occasions here, argued in favour of a property tax, that such a property tax should be levied which does not take account of wealth. I therefore hope that your supporters and your constituents in the provinces, which have recently become more, will listen to these speeches here in the Chamber with a sensitive ear and draw conclusions on what you think of their housing costs. Generally speaking, it is good that the government has decided to change this proposal with opposition criticism and pressure to withdraw these forced increases. Indeed, they would have unduly increased the housing costs of many Finns in 170 municipalities. It is excellent to note that the opposition can be influenced by Finnish democracy, even though a group that hangs around the government is trying to argue otherwise. I wonder, however, that this has had to be brought here in the Chamber, half-ready, and this change could not be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u74	Mr President! First of all, this property tax issue will probably be a good one, now that it has been thrashed and whatever. But I would also like to suggest that this entire property tax law should be amended in the future. And why? For example, according to a report from the construction industry, more than half of about one million detached houses are located in rural areas, in the depopulation area, and the value of buildings is approaching zero. Many times it is thought that it is no longer worth repairing, but we are paying a fair price for it, that of course there will be some rebates on those bad buildings. And then what do we get? We remember that in 93 there was a property tax and that partly replaced this so-called street charge, there were others. But we in the countryside, in the wilderness, don't get any real estate tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u75	Yeah, and we'll hold on to this minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u76	Mr President! It is good that the lower limits for property taxes are not increased, as these increases would have focused on housing costs in a large number of municipalities, and in particular on Finnish, ordinary taxpayers. When these issues were discussed in the referral debate, the fact is that we in the centre made it clear that the property tax is not trouble-free at the moment. It is therefore important that the real estate tax system is being reformed and should also update the tax values of land bases closer to the prevailing price level and correct the relative differences between different regions in valuation to reflect the prevailing price differences – they are very different across Finland. The fact is that if the thresholds for real estate taxes had been raised, they would have been very much targeted at urban areas, especially in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u77	Mr President! What tax is unnecessary, what is necessary? Dog tax is useless, perhaps the coalition will see to it that it also leaves Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u80	Then we can take one more round, with the emphasis on the members of the Committee on Finance. Then we go to the list of speakers. I would therefore like to add the following: Mr Uotila, Mr Viitanen, Mr Yanar, Mr Kangasniemi, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Kalli. Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u81	Mr President! Although this acceptability for wind power in municipalities may be somewhat increased as a result of this, and certainly it is also true what Mr Hassi said about this overcompensating effect of the aid scheme at the moment, quite miraculous arguments have been made here: that it will improve the profitability of this business, that the taxation of some economic activity, in this case wind power industry, wind power production, was doubled in 2014 — in view of the taxation of the entire life cycle — and now it is tripled with this reform. Do you think this is the case in other areas of business, that when a few times taxes are increased and multiplied, there will be more fuss? I'm a little confused about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u82	Mr President! That is how much we need to go back to these tax increases and tax reductions and to all this whole, that we heard here that the Coalition Party never wants to raise taxes unless we have to, and yet the Coalition Party now wanted to increase the property tax. Yesterday we discussed the issue of increasing taxation on heating fuels. I find it very sad that next year we are also raising taxes on families with children. Yes, the Coalition Party is prepared to raise these taxes, or does the Coalition Party believe that tomorrow they will not be necessary, but today they will be? I hope that the next step will be to cancel this tax evasion of families with children, which we have already called for here, because once these speeches have an impact here, I hope that this will be the next item. On the other hand, Mr President, I think that this is a wrong value policy, that now that we can also afford to calculate some taxes, why do we calculate them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u83	Mr President! We believe that the adjustment of taxation on wind power will have a positive impact on how wind power is viewed locally, which means that change can contribute to wind power, and that is a common goal for all of us. It increases the willingness of municipalities to plan wind turbines, which is very important from the point of view of increasing renewable energy, and was also acknowledged by Mrs Myllykoski, even though her party protested. There are important points of view in the committee's proposals, first of all to urge the government to monitor and investigate the impact of the increase in the property tax on new investments in wind power, and, at the same time, it is very important to speed up the introduction of a new support system, as uncertainty will affect future investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u84	Mr President! Indeed, consider the situation of families with children as a whole. The abolition of child-reduction, increased heating costs and this government attempt to tighten the property tax — all of it — is aimed at a family of children with low incomes who do not benefit from the abolition or reduction of day-care fees. There are families like this that are in zero class, and this is a pretty cold and harsh language for these families. It is good, then, that we now have a change in committee, even on this point, that this is not going to happen. Mr President! I'll have to agree with you. To Mr Mäkipää's excellent speech on the fact that this system is crooked, I expect that the blues will now forcefully be driving in a hurry to correct these evil system flaws. They quickly create ever-increasing inequalities in this country and lead to an unreasonable situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u85	Mr President! Representative Viitanen, who represents your ‘love your taxes’ party, pretends that the Assembly is a member of the Party,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u90	Mr President! In conclusion, perhaps it is worth pointing out how we could in future ensure that real estate taxes would not have to be increased in the future. There is a medicine for it: we pursue an economic policy in which it is worthwhile to build in Finland, it is worthwhile investing in Finland, it is worth making power plants in Finland. This will make it possible for these tax revenues to continue to increase in the future. The reason why the compensation for early childhood education fees has already been met for 18 years and the deficit in 19 is only 10 million is due to the fact that, both at the end of last year and early this year, more land has been planned and more housing production has been built and this mass is now starting to produce more property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u91	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u92	Mr President! This has already been a good debate and I can agree with what Mr Kalli has just said. Perhaps, more generally, it could be said that housing costs are actually rising and, especially here in the capital region, they are already partly out of hand from the average wage and salary earners, and that is the problem. It is a wider social problem that we need to address. It may also be seen in a way that, for example, there is not much export industry in the capital region. It is on the coast and in Eastern Finland, where living is much cheaper and where other costs are cheaper. This may not be noticed in the mayor's debate here in Helsinki. One factor that can influence this is the property tax of a non-constructed country. It tends, in part, to be an inspiration for these countries to be used for construction purposes and thus to create new housing, which is the only way to keep these price developments under control. I am also referring to the tax road map that Mr Kalli spoke about. It seems to me to be a very important decision for the government that we see — when the world changes, work changes, digitalisation increases, tax competition becomes tougher, the problems of the black economy exist — what is the environment in which we will collect taxes in the future, and how policies must adapt to it, so that we can secure the basis for prosperity even in that new situation. And it is really important that, as a more general picture now, the overall tax rate has fallen and the economy has risen. It is the thing that also contributes to increasing the speed of society’s wheels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u93	Mr President! There are quite a few aspects that have already been raised, but one could still talk about raising the ceilings on property tax. After all, its effects are rather limited, and that is why I asked when the government had financed the compensation for early childhood education fees, how will it be going to work now, that is, whether new cuts will be forthcoming. What's going on? Mr Outi Mäkelä replied well, but I, like Mr Paatero, wonder about new sudden increases in tax revenue when we all thought that the situation was the same as it was before, and now these new tax revenue estimates will have an impact on this outcome. We hope that the government will give us answers to this. As far as wind power is concerned, we believe that the adjustment of taxation on wind power will have a positive effect on a more favourable approach to wind power locally and will then increase these investments in renewable energy in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u94	Mr. Speaker! At the beginning of the 1990s, property tax was abolished and property tax was introduced. It was an excellent reform in itself and has therefore been a clear model for municipalities to collect tax revenue. At the time, the lower limit of 93 real estate taxes for housing was 0.1 per cent of the tax value of real estate. It is now more than 0.4%, that is, it has quadrupled over 25 years, and this has been done under different governments, and the Social Democrats have also been raising it. It has become a property tax, therefore, which is very heavily directed at housing, and so these increases indicate that it has become a purely fiscal way of collecting taxes. However, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, the property tax was abolished, which only applied to the extremely rich Finns, and there was nothing done to replace it, so that interesting such a long line of politics. Now also a resident pensioner who receives a EUR 760 guarantee pension per month may have to pay the property tax. When the government was going to raise it again, it was unreasonable. It was therefore extremely important that we, in the Committee on Finance and in the Tax Section, had it reversed or overturned so that the government abandoned this disproportionate measure. This certainly raises the cost of living. The Greens are off the hook when they're talking about empty plots. They don't live in them, but they live in the apartment, and they pay real estate tax on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u96	Mr President! Because of a really good government policy, the overall tax rate is falling, and it says that: The big line in the economic policy of the Sipilä government is producing results. The economy is growing, unemployment is falling and, in all respects, such optimism is increasing among the citizens. It is, of course, the result of long-term work, based on the fact that many measures have been taken to reverse this image of the economy: improved conditions for companies to operate, the necessary savings have been made, agreements have been reached on the labour market. It is now possible to enjoy this whole in the sense that the overall tax rate is rising. Of course, this general property tax is problematic in many sectors. I will now bring up this agriculture. Agricultural investment is one million at the moment. The share of new production buildings and real estate tax is indeed significant. That is why it was good that this threshold for property tax was not raised, or that a common view was found in the government groups, which was also confirmed by the party leaders, and this must be the case for the committee to have the opportunity to consider matters and, when the government groups find a common view, for the necessary clarifications to be made on these proposals. In this sense, this was also a victory for parliamentarianism. As far as this tax on wind power real estate is concerned, the fact that municipalities can receive more real estate taxes on wind power, which will then enable them to finance basic services, education, health care and employment measures is very positive. In this respect, one more wonder for the left-wing union, which does not want to use this tax source to safeguard citizens' and municipal services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u97	Mr President! Once again, briefly: I understand in itself that those who are critical of wind power or those who do not want to favour a particular form of energy production in taxation are in favour of this increase in property tax. I think that is logical. On the other hand, I do not understand those who say that they are in favour of the profitability of wind power and, nevertheless, are in favour of a fiscal change which will, in fact, reduce the profitability of wind power from the point of view of investors. This has then been justified by the fact that attractiveness is increasing but, on the other hand, it has not been possible to prove what problems there are at present in the planning process, which, as it were, would prevent municipalities from planning wind farms. On the contrary, the City of Kristina, for example, pointed out that there are no such zoning barriers. In other words, the Left Alliance has been concerned about making a change which weakens profitability when, on the other hand, there are two major structural reforms coming up in terms of both production aid and property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u98	Mr Rantakangas and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u99	Mr President! The fact is that wind power production is currently the most profitable energy business. According to all the experts, this is the case and it is based on this feed-in tariff pricing, which was once based on a certain assumption of the price of electricity. In this sense, the concern to reduce the profitability of wind power is not justified. It could be said that from the surplus that is currently generated in the production of wind power power, a small slice is taken to finance basic municipal services, to maintain those schools, to maintain health care, to provide employment, and so on, which are important to the city centre, that municipalities can provide basic services that are important to citizens. In other words, this concern, mentioned by Mr Andersson, about the poor profitability of wind power is not based on facts or facts, and in this respect it is quite surprising that this is being used as a basis. After all, this new energy support system will bring all forms of energy into line with renewable energy, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u100	Mr President! While the Finns of Peru were in government, the feed-in tariff system was tightened by providing that a wind farm can only be accepted into the tariff system if it has a quota spot for the total capacity of wind power plants. The Finns also support this proposal, which in practice focuses on a tax increase, especially on wind farms. From a technical point of view, the proposal is logical because today the nominal power limit for small wind power plants is determined on the basis of each individual wind power plant, although the plants are generally not isolated from each other in practice. In the future, the power limit would be determined in wind farms formed by several units on the basis of the combined power of power plants. The majority of wind farms are connected to the grid through a common connection point, and it is therefore justified to treat these wind farms and wind turbines as technologically interconnected entities and not merely to perceive them as seemingly individual installations. The unfortunate thing about this Finnish wind power policy is perhaps what this proposal is, as it were, another indication: how volatile a policy is, how volatile this economic policy treatment given to wind power in Finland is. It is plagued by a lack of consistency. It has been a tragedy in Finland that the level of support for wind power plants was set far too high and that wind power was artificially profitable in the context of free competition and the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u103	Mr President! Of course, this debate on wind power and its effect on real estate tax is a positive thing. It brings more tax revenue to municipalities, which I think is important, and they are always better able to provide municipal services, and surely it will also improve the acceptability of wind power in that respect. Overall, however, this feed-in tariff system for wind turbines has been unfair to other forms of energy production, and it is good that significant improvements will also be made in the near future and that these forms of energy will be on an equal footing. The second thing that has also been raised in this debate on real estate tax is the services provided by real estate tax. Some speakers have recalled the '90s while there were street charges and so on, and then there were street charges in urban and urban areas. It is important that now that the property tax is paid all over Finland, everyone should have these services, and this is the point where, in the future, we will probably have to consider how these services will be provided in the form of regional reform in order to enable them to live there. I would like to re-apply the value of the property, the market value or what it is now called. It should be updated to the extent that the values of real estate in this capital region and in those provinces are not in the right proportions as they should be, and it would be important to update or update their values in order to ensure that this tax is fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u104	Mr President! In my opinion, this slight tightening of taxation on wind power is quite good and justifiable. The fact is, however, that the feed-in tariff for wind power over 12 years has been very profitable for some. One case I read in a magazine where a wind - power company with no employees was found to have huge annual profits. So it can be said that there was little too much support in it, but it was a decision at the time and it was 12 years after the agreement which was concluded at the time. But in any case, this tax evasion is not going to bring the world down because, according to an example, it would reduce profits by only about 4% on average, that is to say, the world will not fall. And when it goes, as Mr Pakkanen said in his speech, to the social good, to the municipal tax fund, which then provides services to the local authorities, it is a perfectly well-founded idea and a good presentation in itself. As far as the increase in the lower limit of real estate tax is concerned, which has now been much discussed today, it is a very good thing that tax revenue for the state and municipalities is developing in a positive direction. And we can also, if necessary, make it even easier, because it is a clear economic fact, quite indisputable, that when taxes are reduced and economic intensity is increased, people's purchasing power will increase and the economy as a whole will recover. We now have good examples of this, and when you watched on television tonight, for example in connection with the Äänekoski plant, when a stock market analyst is analysing the economic situation in Finland at the moment, the message was very positive. In the evening news — as I remember it was in the 10th, but still in one of the main newscasts of the evening — this was, and there was good text on how to handle the economy. Finally, Mr President, when you look at the budget book, you will indeed see the development of tax revenue, which the state will have estimated for next year. They are really encouraging figures,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u105	Mr President! Wet autumn has caused exceptionally problematic harvesting conditions for cereals, oil and legumes in Finland. The picture is that we are now turning to November and the harvesting work is still in progress in Southern Finland, not to mention Ostrobothnia, Eastern Finland, Central Finland, Northern Finland. We should now look for different ways of helping agriculture in this situation, the natural means available. After all, in Sweden agricultural production buildings have never had a real estate tax, and we should also be able to get to the same situation. After all, our property tax on production buildings is paid specifically by young and newly-invested farmers, who are already in a difficult enough situation. At least I have not received a proper explanation from the Ministry of Finance as to why we should not be able to carry out the same thing that has been in force in Sweden since the beginning, that is, there has never been a real estate tax on agricultural production buildings there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u106	Mr President! In the Government’s proposal, wind power construction will be subject to a normal plant property tax, which is higher than the general property tax in municipalities. Municipalities themselves decide their property tax rate. The maximum general real estate tax is 1.8 per cent and the maximum real estate tax is 3.1 for power plants. This does not mean that all windmills would be subject to this higher, i.e. the power plant property tax, but only if connected wind turbines with one supply line to the national grid exceed its 10 megavolt amperes. In practice, windmills have now been in general, at a lower percentage point. Now these parks, which cross this limit by 10 megavolt amps and have that one feeder cable into the national network, come under this higher property tax. Currently, there are some 450 wind turbines in the Tax Administration register located in 43 different municipalities. The combined tax value of wind power plants in 2017 is EUR 320 million and the imputed real estate tax EUR 3.6 million. In practice, this change in the law means that the tax revenue of municipalities in this respect will increase significantly. I welcome this government proposal in this regard too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen have quite rightly pointed out that the real estate tax on wind turbines goes to finance the good and necessary services of the municipality. I would remind honourable Members that the same applies to other property taxes: other property taxes go to finance the good and necessary services of the municipality. Many speakers have been delighted that the government withdrew its proposal to raise the threshold for real estate tax on the basis of its impact on so-called granary cottages, i.e. people living in detached houses in areas where migration is lost — houses with very low sales value.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u110	Mr President! There has been a good economic policy debate here today and, in particular, the proposed change in the small-scale property tax regulation to bring wind farms that enjoy feed-in tariffs into the area of higher property tax is very much to be welcomed. Of course, some things have remained a little unclear today. Firstly, the logic envisaged by the government to increase the thresholds for real estate tax rates would not, as such, have provided municipalities with an additional euro which they would not have been able to collect from taxpayers in the past if they wanted to do so by means of their own local democratic decisions. Only the margins of the municipalities would have been reduced if this original government proposal to amend the real estate tax law had gone through as such. The question of why this increase in the lower limits was originally attempted is one that I have not been able to answer despite a large number of attempts. I hope, however, that the government will learn a lesson from this week's tangle for next year's budget proposal. Mr President! The second point is: Representative Vartia pointed out that the increase in the property tax would always be borne by the lessor and would therefore not increase the rent. I'm afraid it's a representative. It seems that Vartia has already left this plenary session, but I think she knows that market economy criteria include terms such as price elasticity of demand and supply, and there is no reason to assume that even for rents, the price elasticity of rental housing is zero or the price elasticity of demand is infinite. Consequently, at least part of the tax increases would inevitably be paid by the tenants. Especially here in the capital region, where we are now, there is a shortage of supply and a lot of demand for rented dwellings, and therefore the prices of rented dwellings, which are already very high today, would probably increase already and even
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u111	Mr President! I am sure that in this debate on property tax it has been positive that the conclusion that the compulsory purchase was cancelled is, of course, that we all agree: it is a nice, good and necessary thing. But, President-in-Office, I wanted to take the floor because I would like to underline once again and draw attention to the question as to why it was worth bringing such a proposal at all. We have referred here to these new estimates of real estate tax revenue, and as I said once again and I would like to reiterate that there will be no misconception of any person in this Chamber, this preliminary information, which came in March, told us that the accumulation would be 1804 million, and then this would be on October 2. The information received on the basis of the deposit was 1794 million, not more, but even a little less, but more or less the same, i.e. nothing material. This has been the last one asked in the tax section today, and there has not been any substantial new information since the budget debate, and there has not been any new public information in a week, and otherwise there is no new public information about some new houses that would have been here in the last few minutes, fast enough. In other words, this has not been the case, and so I ask why it has been necessary to do this at all, because all this same information has been available in the past. Another good question in this context, in my opinion, is that now that we are making these much-spoken changes to these values, it would be very wise and moderate to refrain from continuing increases in the property tax rate until this reform is completed. We have also asked why, then, to make such a law at all, which, in the end, if these increases are left unchanged, will not really lead to anything and will not help a single municipality. Why we only need to make a law on the joy of the law, which, overall, is also a little unclear. President! Finally, I can come there, if you would like, to ask this last question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u116	Mr President! The question of why this increase in the lower limit of property tax was originally brought here to Parliament is persistently confusing to Mr Cape. I'm trying to explain what was going on again. When the government decided in the middle row to reduce early childhood education fees primarily to reduce incentives traps and support families with children, that decision was calculated to mean that the municipalities did not receive payment income of about EUR 70 million. In this situation, the government did not make it old-fashioned to simply increase tax revenue, although this is often a good — that is, a bad — way of financing various expenditure increases or deductions, and although it is quite true in itself that, for example, EUR 70 million is well suited to the so-called error margins when assessing tax revenue for the state or municipalities as a whole. Well, in any case, the government decided to be honest that when revenue comes from municipalities, revenue is added to the municipalities by increasing the property tax. When this proposal was discussed in the Committee on Finance, it became clear that the revenue from the property tax would appear to be developing in such a positive way that, without this increase in the lower limit, figures would be reached which would mean that this increase would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u118	Mr President! First of all, I would like to start with this proposal for an increase in property tax, which is on the table today. It should be noted at the outset that the trip to this Chamber has been quite interesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u125	Mr President! I would also like to highlight the points made in the VATT blog published yesterday, the State Financial Research Centre blog, as to whether the increase in property tax increases rents. The logic of this Vatti blog, which is, of course, available online for everyone, is that in areas such as the capital region where rents and housing prices are in practice determined according to the pain limit of tenants and home buyers, the increase in property tax does not increase this pain limit, does not increase the willingness to pay. Instead, it is a current transfer from property owners, owners of dwellings and landlords to municipalities. In places of relocation where the situation is different, the tenant’s market and the buyer’s market are more numerous. This is a very different situation, and it is therefore very important that, according to my findings, this debate has supported the idea of making a broader overall reform of the property tax, which will also review the valuation of buildings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u128	Mr President! In practice, there has now been practically two hours of discussion in this Chamber as to why it is now decided not to raise the thresholds for property taxes. In my opinion, it is only a good thing that the lower limits on property taxes are not raised, that this is the solution that has been reached in Parliament. I do not really understand the problem the opposition sees in this process, because it is now that a good result has been achieved. In this respect, I think it is important that property taxes are now and also in the future decided on in the municipalities, specifically in the municipal councils. There that decision-making is precisely close to people. In my opinion, property tax is not a problem-free issue. There are problems, and now we should look to the future, to the reform of property taxation, how it is done. It is important that the value of the property and buildings be updated to consider the value of the land based on location, the cost of construction, the age of the building, and also the individual characteristics of the building in question. In this reform, too, I think it is important that we take into account digitality there, that information, price lists and so forth on the value and price areas of the country based on location are constantly being developed. Then the tax value of the building is also based on the real cost in that area. I think it's important. What people are always talking about in real estate tax is the value of their property taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u129	Mr President! This is based on the draft report by the Committee on Finance, which proposes to amend the three articles. The report describes the government's proposal, but then comes the actual draft report from the committee. Many of those who took part in or took part in the debate are now confusing these two issues. I think it would be better to focus more on the report of the Committee on Finance, which is the basis of the debate, which clearly assumes that the compensation that compensates for early childhood education fees has already been met for 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u130	Honorable Speaker! As far as the report on wind power is concerned, it therefore contains two proposals for statements, one of which is very good and worthy of support, but the other, when examined more closely, is somewhat confused. Perhaps it would still have to be considered whether this proposal for a statement should be modified, i.e. whether the opposition would have to make a counter-opinion in order to get this in the right direction. However, this is going to be quite a strong direction for our administrative machinery, and it could therefore be that some other proposal might be more appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u131	Mr President! As far as this motion for wind power is concerned, we in the SDP have made sound statements of this kind here. The idea here is precisely that the government has an obligation to develop models in the future that will safeguard the operating conditions of renewable energy, including wind power, and I believe that this message itself, which is contained in it, is unambiguous and important in itself. Let us also say, as has already been pointed out here, that we are in agreement with the report itself, and that is precisely why we did not object to this, because we felt it was important that our proposal was taken into account. But, President-in-Office, I would like to conclude by saying that I do not think that this debate is in any way in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u134	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 9/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u135	President! I understood that, in fact, this whole matter was already discussed in the previous context, I had not just noticed that I had withdrawn my speech in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u136	Yes, it was also possible to deal with the previous issue, but it is also possible to speak now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u137	Mr. Speaker! On the other hand, it is precisely here that I am going to talk about the property tax issue, when it relates to this point — all the above-mentioned speeches were kind of in the wind. Now we are talking about the issue of the lower threshold for real estate tax, which is based on a report which was adopted by the Committee on Finance. Mr. Speaker! Perhaps a revelation at this beginning: the SDP has often told us where this change has now taken place in this government proposal here in Parliament, and this is where many people will be looking for it in their hats. From my part I would like to read one letter that I received by email this year on 6.9., and this sender I can say here: he is Seppo Kaiinen from Nilsia, Kuopio. He says this: "On Monday was the payment of the first instalment of real estate tax again. It's only growing every year. However, here in rural areas the value of real estate has continued to decline for a long time. In time, the real estate tax was created to compensate for a street charge only for residents of urban areas. It was then extended to real estate in scattered areas. There are no street lights here in the scattered area, and now that those roads have been under-represented for some time now, I believe that the property tax on rural residents must be reduced or abolished altogether. It is not right for a small pensioner to have to pay a property tax on his small pension and to choose between the purchase of necessary daily living supplies and the payment of a property tax." And signed by Seppo Needy. — I would at least like to thank him for this citizen's feedback which came to me and, for my part, I also raised it in the debate with the Committee on Finance in the centre, and then this debate started on the need for an increase in property tax. This debate has, of course, taken place in connection with each tax increase, and it will certainly not end with this solution either, but at least for my part, I can say that this had its own meaning. In this respect, I would also like to say in relation to the property tax that citizens' feedback can also have an impact. The fact that this was then possible as a solution was based on the very point of view that the economic policy of the Sipilä Government has contributed to boosting our economic growth and has therefore been able to make solutions in such a way as not to have to go into such additional increases in property tax. Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Finance stated that proposals to increase the thresholds for real estate tax would be dropped and that the current thresholds would be maintained. This is a good solution that was implemented here in Parliament, and I think it also shows parliamentaryism. Of course there was also normal discussion and rules between government parties and government groups as well as between government and parliament, and so there was a call for unity of mind for this solution, which the government then blessed. Mr. Speaker! It is extremely important that it seems that all the parliamentary groups agree with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that a more systematic impact assessment should be carried out, particularly with regard to the valuation system. This reform project, which is currently under way, is intended to be implemented in a way that respects and applies already in the area of real estate taxation in 2020. At the moment, the valuation of buildings does not take account of regional differences, but is based on the same values throughout the country. In this respect too, the citizen's feedback I have read is quite correct, because there are real estate in various parts of the country that is worth something else and can then be assessed differently. The question is precisely how to make this system fairer and more acceptable to the public. In this respect, the work of the Committee on Budgets in particular is a good basis for this discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u138	Mr President! In fact, I asked for this intervention because, if the Minutes are ever read here and only in this respect, I would like to point out that the views of the SDP have been expressed in the previous point, which actually concerned the property tax on wind power, but by the decision of the Bureau these matters were combined, by no means in such a way that we speakers were necessarily involved in these matters on a voluntary basis or, for some reason, mixed them up. I would like to say that I too think it is very valuable and important that citizens' feedback be taken into account. It is always important that people contact and citizens are listened to and feedback is also listened to. Yesterday, when we had this debate in anticipation, it was said in this Chamber by the SDP that we were almost ready to thank the centre for the fact that this change to the lower limit, its forced withdrawal, came. But then the center here, too, proved to be so eager that, since these tax estimates have now changed, this proposal will therefore be changed. Of course, it would have been more of a kind of conscience if it had been this citizen's feedback, which I think was well raised by Mr Rossi. I appreciate that you have listened to it for your part. In other words, I am also pleased with the outcome that so many citizens have certainly made contact with us all in this matter — at least for myself, there has been a lot of questions about taxation in general and its structure and its fairness — and it is therefore always good to see that these messages are also being listened to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u139	On this technical point, the Council of Presidents did indeed decide that it would be possible for us to deal with this issue (2), including the issue of the matter3). That is quite clear in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u140	Mr President! Indeed, this matter was already dealt with quite extensively in the previous paragraph. There is little point in going back to these actual issues, but it is good that Mrs Rossi has indeed pointed out that, at times, public feedback is at least of some importance to the decision-making of our parliamentarians and the government, even though it is sometimes underestimated by the fact that the government is acting according to the government programme. But I do believe that all of us in the decision-making process, when we are honest about it, can sometimes detect shortcomings in our own actions, especially if it is shown to us from the outside. This decision to raise the lower limits of property tax, the proposal, was initially a little rash on the part of the government, but fortunately the government now withdrew the decision. I'm sure the public will thank you for that. I am not going to comment on whose proposal was ultimately the one that came to the report of the Committee on Finance, but the main thing is that the solution was the right one. Surely all those who have raised this issue in public or who have contacted the parliamentarians have had their own influence. All of this has had its own effect. The main thing is that the decision is now right and fair for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u141	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u142	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Environmental Protection Act and the Waste Act so as to extend the right of the supervisory authorities to charge corresponding fees for the control measures they have carried out and to extend the scope of the supervision of the monitoring of the remediation measures under the Environmental Protection Act to include the monitoring of the remediation measures for contaminated soil. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection came to a unanimous report, which is a good thing that there is consensus on this. It was the one most discussed by me in this matter — and the committee as a whole also agreed — that it is always the cost that must be borne by the cause of the damage, and many times it is difficult to seek out who is causing it, and that process finds it to be guilty many times a little too long. But the starting point must be that it is the polluter who pays the costs, not the landowner. Many times they are situations where a private country finds itself in piles of garbage, which must then be removed, and many times in vain the landowner incurs costs for it. The cost must be borne by the cause. The second point is that when this law is now being taken forward, we stick to the reality and the fact that payments must be reasonable. It is precisely the reasonableness of payments that must be the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u143	Mr President! Indeed, the long-term principle of the State is, or has been actively pursued, that the author always pays the bill for what he has caused. As Mrs Torniainen said in her speech, these environmental issues have recently been very much on the agenda. From experience I know: for example, in my country, North Karelia, there is centralised regional waste management. It has inevitably increased the rates, and unfortunately it has also been reflected in the fact that there are some of these so-called private landfills in the forests. And that is quite the wrong argument if the landowner had to pay the bills for it. Of course, it is also an unlawful measure if someone does, but it is true that these different inspection fees are reasonable to avoid being unreasonable. Then the other thing is that when these charges are then billed, the cause will handle it, and not so that the landowner has no reason to be held liable for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u144	Mr President! Indeed, this draft law was adopted unanimously in committee, and quite rightly it was here that stressed the principle of 'pay-per-pay', which should exist in all environmental legislation, because it will then, as it were, give a price tag to the problem that is being caused, and we know that the euro is a pretty good consultant. In no case can there be a situation where the cause of the harm, as it were, can only stand by and watch the harm that has been done. Reasonableness is certainly also a good requirement, but at the same time the price of polluting it must also be such that it is felt by the person causing its harm. Against this background, too, this moderation must be considered. It is also good to remember the sorting of waste when you want to moderate these costs. There can be no justification for making landfills of its own. It really must be removed, and if there is a tendency to do so, then these sanctions must be sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u145	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 12/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u146	Mr President! I wanted to take the floor here because I have been familiar with it for a long time, and in that way I am close to the heart, that, in my time as Minister, there was a very valuable citizens' initiative for an energy certificate for the Home Union, for the development and improvement of it, because, quite rightly, many citizens and detached people saw and still see the situation as a result of the fact that the proof itself and its lack of clarity and the rest of it are more harmful than the real benefits it seeks to achieve. I think it was quite right and important that this citizens' initiative came at the time, and as a minister, I wanted to take a position that, if anything has ever been laid down, but it has been felt that there is room for improvement, then you can also start to improve. I wanted to take a little catch of it, and I took the initiative that, if Parliament so wishes, I would be prepared to work for the first time in the European Union to change this directive in such a spirit of deregulation, President, so that Finland could return to the line that Finland had in its day — was it in 98 when this directive was first drafted? At the time, Finland wanted energy certificates to be voluntary for small farms. For a long time, we are trying to do so until then the EU became subject to such regulation that this had to be done. But since the EU has also had this spirit of deregulation, I think that it would be a good idea for Finland to strongly advocate that Finland should now have the opportunity to have this voluntary energy certificate in place for old small houses. And here's the deal, Speaker... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u149	Mr President! To begin with, the old saying: "Where is the EU, there is a problem?" Once again, the energy certification legislation will have to be amended. This change is also due to the EU. The Commission considers that Finland allows too many exceptions, i.e. facilitations at national level. Today, greenhouses and shelters will be included in the energy certificates. Holiday homes and buildings used by the Defence Administration would still be free of certificates. There is nothing we can do about the above changes. But with regard to this draft law — these terminology changes which improve understanding — I think it goes a little to the forest when the term 'total calculated energy consumption' is changed to'standardised consumption'. This leads the ideas too close to the term'realised energy consumption', which, of course, will have to be indicated and given separately in the energy certificate. As regards Mr Viitanen's statement earlier, during his ministerial term he had to deal with this immediately. You then promised that, on the basis of the citizens' initiative, you would immediately take care of this matter, that the detached houses would come to this on a voluntary basis. Why didn't you take care of it then? Now you're judging again, but you left it undone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u150	Mr President! I did have quite a strong dialogue with Parliament at the time, and I believe that at least those representatives who followed the situation knew what was going on all the time, and I also went to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. During the time that I was in it as a minister after this citizens' initiative, I actively used the EU's letters to receive a reply which referred to the time ahead, and in the meantime the government changed. And now this coming time, when this directive is being evaluated and everything else in the EU, has no longer been my responsibility. I cannot change the whole of the EU's timetable, but I can take that attitude — unlike Mr Mölsä before me, when I have to say that this is all because of the EU and nothing can be done — that there must at least be activity and try. At that time, Mr President, you can read the minutes at any time — I specifically said in front of Parliament that it is not clear that just by clicking on the fingers, the EU will agree to our demands, but the one tried will not be put on. You always have to try. I also launched the preparation of domestic legislation. I set up a working group in which, inter alia: The House of Homes Association was a representative,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u151	Mr President! I agree with Mrs Viitanen that it is always worthwhile and must also try to influence the EU so that the EU does not impose certain sanctions on us here in Finland. This bill, which we now have, also comes from the fact that the European Commission has made a formal remark to Finland on the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive for Buildings. In other words, what we have been asked to do about the EU is now being fulfilled, in other words, it is proposed that greenhouses, shelters and certain other buildings should come under the energy certification procedure. In practice, however, this does not affect us at all, because greenhouses can be regarded as other types of buildings and then do not need those energy certificates. Similarly, we mainly have shelters when they are in blocks of flats, for example, already in the energy certificate at the moment. Personally, I agree that we should also have old residential buildings, housing houses so that they are not covered by an energy certificate. It should also be taken to the awareness of Finnish meps that they would be in favour of this in the EU. I agree. Then, as far as the energy certificate itself is concerned, I believe that it should be further developed so that more information can be gained from it than is available today. For example, when the Energy Certificate defines the E-Chapter, we have an energy certificate valid for ten years and during that period there will be in practice three different calculation methods for the E-Chapter when you can no longer see what is right and real in it. That we should also look at the actual consumption in the buildings, how they were built — not just the theoretical figure, as has been seen so far in the main. Well, actually, if I went out and bought a house,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u152	Mr President! This proposal from the government and the report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection show that I do not believe that all this energy certification work makes sense. The fact that there will now be more greenhouses and shelters, probably not much anywhere in this world running towards these things, not for the better or the worse. Unnecessary bureaucracy is being created; of course, this is the biggest idea perhaps. Indeed, in my opinion, the energy certificates for old detached houses are completely unnecessary, because it is the case that it is only the amount of energy that is actually consumed by that old detached house that matters. Electricity consumption is the easiest thing in the world to measure, you get a report from the electricity company every year to see how much electricity has gone by, and then you know whether it heats up with wood or ground heat or what, including the cost. I think it would be good for the European Union to stop and think about what the right things are, and this kind of unnecessary theory will leave out. With sorrow, I have only followed what this European Union has done and what we Finns have done in this area of the Land Use Directive and also in the case of the Renewable Energy Directive. There they will be rewarded for those who have already cut their forests and used coal, and they will be punished for the fierce growth of renewable forests. When in this way things are usually handled in Europe, so there is no sure confidence in things like this in the common good much more, when those who do their business well, are punished and those who, so to speak, have already played their games and their forests, for example, in this case have been beaten down, are rewarded. If this is the way things are done, then one day it will come to the attention of the Member States that this makes any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u153	Mr President! In my view, the two previous speeches were important because they confirmed the same idea that I have, that there is still support for the EU and that, on the one hand, in terms of content, this issue is simply not in order yet. I think it would be very wise to listen to this national model now, for example, because there is a lot of expertise and knowledge and skill, and in the spirit of the citizens' initiative, I think it is good to move forward on these issues. In other words, things are not in order yet, and that is why I consider these previous speeches to be very important, President, because you come from the government party and, no matter what, Minister Tiilikainen is now on top of these issues, so please tell him, too, both as far as the EU is concerned and as far as the content of this energy certificate is concerned, because now is really the time to act. I have followed it to some extent that there are different drafts with opinions and others, but at the point when, hopefully soon, these amendments will be introduced, I hope that they will also take this feedback seriously into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u154	Mr President! When this matter was before Parliament the last time — which included, among other things, these garages which have now emerged under the energy certification procedure — the Social Democrats lodged an objection stating that Finland should be active and clarify when this issue will be dealt with at European Union level in such a way that these changes can be made. But I would draw attention to the fact that this is a question of the Commission doing its own work at the moment. It is up to the Commission to ensure that legislation adopted jointly by the European Parliament and the Council is transposed into national law in the Member States. I cannot help saying here that Finland should be even more active when legislation is being adopted. This means activity in the Council of Ministers and activity in the European Parliament, because both legislations are being adopted. Finland has sometimes had such an attitude when, for example, it is decided on energy efficiency at European level that we have everything well, that nothing needs to be done. This does not help us to find sensible and sensible ways to be included here in common European legislation. No one will do them for us if we do not actively present them there, so we must also look in the mirror when we reproach the Commission for carrying out its own tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u155	Mr President! It is good to hear that we are now in this Chamber, who are still here, agree that Finland should also actively influence the decision-making process in the EU and deliver those messages, especially to our Mepes, how it works here in Finland. We are in a very different situation than in Central Europe, for example, because of climatic conditions, especially in housing production and construction and also in housing. Mr Viitanen said that: The Finnish Home Union has very good views on matters related to the Energy Certificate. I fully agree with that, and certainly Minister Tiilikainen is also aware of these issues. Then, when we develop this energy certification system, it is a good thing that it also takes into account digitalisation, because in the future, the development of smart devices and an intelligent electricity grid system will enable us to adopt demand-based solutions and so on. But not only what it is in the future, but also what the buildings are today, should be considered. After all, the energy certificate also contains recommendations for savings that can help improve the energy efficiency of the building. That's a good thing. Personally, I hope that the energy certificate is not too complicated a matter, but rather provides practical information to the people who need it. After all, the fact is that an energy certificate is only needed at the time when a dwelling is to be sold or rented. That, too, is remarkable. And yes, as I said, when the buyer goes out to get the apartment or house, he needs specific information about what the apartment contains, how it is used and what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u156	Mr President! As far as this energy certificate is concerned, it must have its own meaning, but when you look at the way it has been implemented in Finland and what the European Union is obliging us to do, I would have given it a little more common sense, because it really serves theoretical figures like this and then does not describe, for example, the real situation in old detached houses. There is a huge contradiction in itself, it is a terrible contradiction. What has the House of Homes said about this? I agree that there are sensible words there, but when you look at this European decision-making anyway, it sometimes comes to mind that if we really did, let us say in the case of renewable energy, we should have a little deeper discussion about the fact that, at last and finally, one day, we would get to the point where the European Union would only deal with big, big issues and such little nibbles, such as the energy certificate thing, would fall into the background. Look what the problem is with our buildings today in this country. Yesterday we read in the newspapers that new houses built in Jätkäsaari already have water damage. Whether it's sloppy work, wrong materials or what the reason was, but in any case the wolf and second is born and we're arguing here whether or not there's an energy certificate up to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u157	Mr President! Originally, the Energy Efficiency Directive started to lead this Energy Certificate Act, and of course the intention was good then. Comparability throughout Finland was such that Helsinki or Utsjoki was taken, so at least it was always known how much energy that detached house consumed, and it was able to determine efficiency, and then it also led to corrective measures and then it was understood that they would achieve something. But the law was changed in 2013, and then these formal factors, namely political guidance, came into play, and it took the purpose of this law in the direction that there is no more comparability, and then there are the subsequent changes, the laws are constantly being changed and changes are being made, and they result in these being no longer comparable. That is the current problem, and it has scrapped the whole good idea that originally existed. So this is the end result of the fact that we are being controlled by the EU and that this energy certificate is no longer really relevant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u158	In fact, I am not going to go through it very much here, but at some point it is worth familiarising myself with the very interesting history of the EU and the requirements of these directives and, in time, the demands of Finland in them. As I told you before, it was on the way out. Finland spent a long time trying to get these old detached houses to volunteer, before long it lost its fight and they came. Sometimes the directive was even amended: it did not initially have this formula, for example, which I think is precisely the problem. [MarttiMölsä intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-18-ps-106.u159	Mr President! At the end of this debate, I would like to emphasise that this report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is unanimous in this particular government proposal, that this is the way forward, that this bill will take us forward. But I would like to address the excellent point raised by Mr Hoskone in particular: when we speak and produce energy certificates, are they absolutely necessary then, which of them are now available to us today? In my opinion, they should be more informative, precisely on the basis of this user-oriented approach. We certainly have much more problems in buildings than that energy certificate itself. It is precisely in order to solve indoor air problems in buildings, to which Mr Hoskonen referred, that more time should be spent to get rid of them, that homes, houses, educational institutions and so on are healthy to be and work. That would also be important in the future.
