ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would ask the representatives to address the question to the relevant Minister for Sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u2	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u3	Mr President! The main objective of the Government’s mid-term review was to create new jobs for Finns. It was good that the government ended up reducing early childhood education fees. It has a clear impact on this objective. Otherwise, the impact on employment was limited. It is clear that the government will not achieve its objectives on these grounds. The government is about to be left in employment half-way. The SDP has put forward a number of measures to boost growth and boost employment: family leave reform, substantial strengthening of labour policy and future investment, infrastructure and housing construction would have a real impact. Mr Orpo, after two days of debate, you said at the information conference that more needs to be done to strengthen employment. Why couldn't they be decided at the halfway point? Where was the family leave reform? When you referred to new decisions, what did you mean and why did you not take these decisions now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u4	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u5	Mr President! In the spending limits debate, the first thing was that we ensured the sustainability of our public finances by sticking to the fiscal policy line that had been chosen. This EUR 4 billion savings programme, which has been decided, is being maintained in order to bring about a break in debt. However, it is quite clear that although the economy has started to grow and the preliminary data for the last few months are very promising, we do not yet have sufficient growth and employment to achieve the government's own objective. That is why we need to take action on employment. We again took employment measures, a number of measures in the right direction, including this reduction in early childhood education fees you mentioned, which was one and perhaps the most important. We made a package of employment measures last autumn, a list of so-called ten points. Now we have taken new employment measures and we are still preparing the next decisions, because this employment is the most important thing the government is working on. It is humanely it, giving unemployed people the opportunity to work, to support themselves, but it is also absolutely essential for public finances and its sustainability. We are determined to work for the entire reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u6	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to rise up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u7	Mr President! The mid-term review that you promoted as an employment dispute produced 5,000 new employed jobs on a calculated basis. The budget deficit, the deficit will not improve after that line, nor will the level of public debt decrease, on the contrary, in 2021 it will increase. Your goals will not be fulfilled. You're in serious trouble. The need for further action is well recognised, but effective decisions do not seem to arise. So this was supposed to be an employment battle. It seems, however, that the government has focused on completely different issues. The number of ministers will be increased, the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company will be interfered with and the hiding of assets in the Twilight Register, excuse me, will be trampled through the management register. With regard to the latter two, the Government did not in any way disclose them in the spending limits debate. Are you now, Minister Orpo, focused on the right things? Did the government still decide something that hasn't been reported to the public?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u8	Mr President! Mr Rinne, I think that you are now focusing on the wrong things. The big picture we've been working on since the beginning of this reign, which was now concentrated in the debate, that is, turning Finland into economic growth, turning employment in a positive direction, that was the first thing. And the Finnish economy has changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u9	Mr President! The government has a good goal, 110,000 new jobs or jobs, and now it has become about 30,000, or 80,000 are still missing. Over the last two years, 30,000 have been built. So it is now a question of 40 000 jobs being found over the next two years. I understand the difficulty of this task and all the problems involved, but when I look at the results of the half-way, only 5,000 new jobs can be found there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u10	Mr President! This 5000 that you raised is the estimated employment impact of the incentive trap paper, the main thing of which is indeed this significant reduction in early childhood education fees: 6000 families are completely exempt from early childhood education fees and low and middle income contributions are calculated. It will also play a major, important role in encouraging the acceptance of work and, of course, the purchasing power of low-income families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u13	And Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u14	Mr President! Perhaps as a complement: today these employment statistics have come, and it can be seen from there that the change from March last year to this moment is indeed almost 34,000 more jobs. But in my opinion, the most important news today has been that the number of long-term unemployed, who have been unemployed for more than a year, has fallen by over 5,000 per month. [Department: Good! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u15	Mr President! There's really no reason to bang on the suspenders from this frame line. That is true, Mr Orpo, it is true that this government took a turn in terms of employment and the economy. Employment turned in summer 2015, the economy in autumn 2015. But the problem now is that, despite these reverses, the government is not achieving its own goals, not in the economy or in employment. I understand that this is precisely the reason why the government itself raised expectations very high, that decisions are now being taken to bring this development into line with its own objectives. Now we have the impression that it's there. In the summer, decisions have been taken on matters other than employment, strong employment measures. You decided to withdraw the decision to reduce the number of ministers. Most of the growth efforts you celebrated are cancellations of your previous cuts, both in student support and in education. Minister of Finance Orpo, we would have liked employment, but what came out of it? Decision on a Twilight Register allowing:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u16	Mr President! The register of administrations has been adopted by Parliament and it will enter into force, in other words, to implement European legislation, which we must do. That is our job, and that is what goes on after a long twist. But I am still going back to the fact that we did work there. Well, when you weren't there, you haven't seen the amount of work that was done there too, and that preceded the rites. We did a great deal of work and we were looking for more of the means to be introduced when the result of this debate is presented in its entirety. You will find a lot of good things there that will increase employment, and I believe that the figure will ultimately be much greater than the 5000 that comes from this so-called incentive trap. From there I could also point out that we are facilitating the situation of over-indebted people by facilitating enforcement practices. The impact of around 1000 jobs has also been estimated. This over-indebtedness is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u17	As a rule, one question is sufficient for one minister to answer, but another is also given in specific cases. — — — — Secretary Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u18	Mr President! Future growth is based on knowledge and our ability to regenerate. In the Government's mid-term debate, we made investments of more than EUR 400 million in areas such as knowledge, education, research, prevention of social exclusion among young people — very long-term, forward-looking solutions that were possible because of the emergence of sprouting growth, and we now want to step up this by our own efforts. Comprehensive school learning outcomes and equality will be strengthened. We also want to ensure good implementation of vocational education and training reform. The action programme for the prevention of the exclusion of young people came under point 19, i.e. concrete measures to prevent the exclusion of young people. From the point of view of families with children and also early childhood education, it is a very important decision that the government courageously lowers early childhood education fees and brings 6,700 families to free early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u20	Mr President! According to information from the Ministry, EUR 850 million of harmful business subsidies are paid annually — EUR 850 million of harmful business subsidies. However, these were not touched. I would have asked: who should have this information, that we politicians should be able to make more responsible decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u21	Mr President! Mr Vartia is certainly referring to the reduction of business subsidies that has been carried out in the negotiations. Personally, I have not heard that there are harmful business subsidies, or at least no one has informed me that he would receive harmful business subsidies of 850 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u25	Mr President! For this government, investing in skills means giving 15 million in vocational education and training to go through reform, when only six months ago you decided to cut 190 million in vocational education and training. The government's mid-term review was disappointing with regard to employment measures, but it was also disappointing from the point of view of combating inequality. Before the mid-term debate, the government ministers in this Chamber said that this is the end of bullying low incomes, but what happened? A new cutter will be introduced into unemployment security, and the conditions for housing allowance will also be tightened in a way that will particularly hit low incomes in the capital region. Minister Tiilikainen, why are you pushing for a change in housing support, which, according to experts, will only lead to an increase in income support expenditure, an increase in the segregation of residential areas and a further deterioration in the position of low incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u27	Mr President! Housing allowance belongs to the property of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, who is unfortunately not here,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u30	And Mr. Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u31	Mr President! It is true that the previous government made changes to housing aid specifically in order to make it easier for low-income workers, especially low-paid workers. The increase in expenditure on housing allowance is due to the fact that this change has resulted in more recipients of housing allowance being covered by housing allowance,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u32	Minister Orpo, and Minister Tiilikainen, if necessary, can then respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u33	Mr President! In the long term, Mr Andersson, you are quite right that the only sustainable way is to have enough volumes of affordable rental housing production, especially in growth centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u38	Mr President! I am delighted that Mr Andersson acknowledged that rents are determined on the market according to demand and supply. Great! This is why we have increased housing production, which is the government's top project. Housing construction has increased by 50 per cent during this government compared with figures two years ago. The production of affordable housing is also at a higher level than in any year with the Left Alliance and the SDP in the government the previous time, at a higher level than in any year during your reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u39	A supplementary question, Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u40	Mr President! It is true that housing support expenditure is constantly increasing, and it is certainly worth considering how we can get the system so that it does not increase unduly but, on the other hand, ensure that people with low incomes are able to live. But have you understood that this proposal, when you reduce housing allowance, means that the money must be applied for on the income support side? And income support is a much larger incentive trap than housing support, which is provided for as a protective component. So in this case, from the point of view of employment, this shift in housing costs to be applied for on the income support side causes far more problems than the current situation. Are you going to renovate this whole issue of housing allowance so that you take these different items into account and not just move low incomes from one door to another and cause them much greater problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u41	Well, I don't think the proper Minister for Housing Support is here, but would the government find someone to answer? — In other words, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u42	Mr President! It's always a pleasure to answer for a good government. In the spending limits debate, the Government decided to launch a comprehensive reform and evaluation of social security. And the essential part of it is precisely these incentives traps described by Mr Mikkonen. When various parts of social security are added or reduced, it becomes a complex entity. That is why it is appropriate to evaluate the whole. And yes, we recognise that if the increase in housing allowance expenditure is limited as proposed by the government, some of those savings will come to the side of income support expenditure. But in any case, that overall effect is such that it brings some savings to central government finances. But above all, it sends a message to the landlords: Don't think you can pick up rents on the taxpayers' tabs, yes, housing allowance and income support will do everything. No, they don't. We're up against the border.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u43	Mr President! I will return to this original question, the big picture of economic growth and employment. The Government made decisions to maintain confidence, predictability and the certainty that business and business and Finnish consumers expect. The evidence of this is, of course, the employment trends mentioned by the ministers. But my question now actually has to do with the fact that, with the next great effort being the autumn income solutions, does the government now have the conditions to strengthen both Parliament and itself by creating moderate income solutions in the autumn that will then contribute to consumer confidence and economic growth?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u45	Mr President! Now next autumn's Federation Round is really important in securing Finnish employment and securing well-being. I therefore hope, firstly, that there is a constructive, moderate spirit in the labour market and that it is a solution-oriented one, and precisely so that we keep it in mind for our high unemployment and for the people who need a job. It needs competitiveness in its background. A moderate wage settlement would now be the most important thing to be achieved in the labour market and would be created without labour market disturbances. In this context, I would appeal to the social partners and all parties to maintain their patience and to be decisive, precisely for the sake of employment and for the sake of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u46	Mr President! There wasn't a race for employment, there was a row of other decisions. "In its new form, thepreparationcontrolregister. The control register is buried and buried." This was said by former Finance Minister Alexander Stubb, when the government for the first time withdrew the law on ownership records. Among other things, the tax authorities, the police and the prosecutors, as well as the various judicial authorities, have strongly opposed the register because they consider it to increase money laundering, tax evasion and criminal activity. Well, now the management register has returned again and the government parties have broken through the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy by 8 to 5 votes in favour of the management register, despite opposition from the opposition and experts. I'd like to ask you a question. How did this happen? What was promised to the Finns of Finland in the mid-term debate when you voted in favour of the administrative register law you opposed earlier in committee today? How did this happen? Buried and buried — was it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u47	Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, if I are to point out that the supplementary question that has just been raised in the framework debate does not represent the very essence of the issue. Of course, if the Minister wishes, he will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u48	Mr President! I would have drawn the same attention to the fact that there are few constructive contributions in favour of employment, but that you are talking about a register of management. You know — and I think you know that — that these legislative changes were necessary in order for us ministers to have the legislation at their disposal in the autumn when the CSD is applying for authorisation. It's necessary. It is based on EU law and, as my predecessor has said, when he introduced this bill as amended to Parliament almost a year ago, it does not include the extension of the management register in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u51	At this stage, I am not happy to admit any further questions about the management register, because this is a specific issue here. — Mr Östman, a supplementary question for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u52	Mr President! It is great that the economy is slowly turning to growth, but employment is still, unfortunately, at a low level. One of the mottos of the interlocutor was reform. I am reading here from your own presentation material: "Security, employment, care and reform". I would like to ask where were the employment reforms, where was the local agreement? The government has promised that with the measures taken, you will achieve savings of around EUR 10 billion. You told me they were identified, note. There are approximately 4 billion dollars worth of identified savings. As far as the employment measure is concerned, you acknowledge the need for further action. And when I look more closely at the list of measures, most of them are still issues to be clarified. I would like to ask you whether you really believe that the savings target of 10 billion will be achieved,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u53	Mr President! After all, the government has taken decisions to strengthen employment since the negotiations on the Government Programme, and they have been implemented, transposed, dealt with here, and employment has started to rise, improve, economic growth. We made another set of decisions. There is no such famous silver bullet to solve this employment problem at once, but there are countless similar decisions to be made. We made them again. If we are talking about reforms to structures, for example, a significant reduction in early childhood education fees is a structural reform. It's a big structural reform. In addition, we made sure — because we were in the middle row — that these major structural reforms to the Finnish social and well-being system will be taken forward decisively together. It's absolutely necessary. But still, if we look at how we achieve sustainable growth and employment development, I am very pleased with the efforts we were able to make in terms of knowledge and growth, including these capitalisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u54	And to this question, a final supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u55	Mr President! I understand that in connection with the spending limits, there was talk of a register of management, the funding of the YLE, and then there was talk of these ministerial seats. That, in that sense, there are spending limits. But I repeat that the SDP has made many different good proposals in relation to economic growth and employment. Family leave is one of the key elements that could quickly influence wage equality between men and women, to bring young women into the labour market. The question is: would you be prepared to take these matters from now on in preparation in a way that would produce them for decisions during this reign? And one more important question. In this spending limits debate, the regional government — if it happens to start now — cut the 2020 indices by half. This means EUR 100 million less money for these regions, which are just starting to operate. It is already known that many provinces
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u56	Secretary Orphan will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u57	Mr President! I'm clocking you on that family leave issue. As we know, it has different perspectives within the government. There was no solution. It will move forward to the future, and I hope that good decisions will then be made in the name of employment in this regard. However, I would also like to point out this reduction in early childhood education fees, which is a major act of family policy and also essential to women's employment, which is essential to the purchasing power of low income families with children. In addition, I would also like to highlight the reform of social security: a hugely important overall reform of the Finnish social security system. We have a complex and passive social security system which has been built over decades. Today, Kela's CEO Aaltonen has played a bigger renovation. We now decided to put this thing on the move. And now that we are conducting a basic income experiment, we have decided to mobilise participatory social security in an experimental form. Let's hope the next government has a chance and a good chance to make it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u59	Mr President! I should like to add a few more words from Mr Orpo. It has been pointed out here that these savings of EUR 4 billion have now been fully completed. This halving of the one-year index revision of the regional index is linked to our desire to ensure that, with the solutions in our hands, this EUR 4 billion package will be completed in total. But at the same time as you mentioned, Mr Rinne, this regional reform, I would like to say that we are making considerable investments in moving the whole regional reform forward. Firstly, in the spending limits period, EUR 1 billion will be allocated in full for the promotion of ICT issues, and then EUR 57 million will be allocated to the interim administration for next year, EUR 100 million in transfer appropriations for these freedom of choice pilots. Then we made an investment of EUR 90 million for capitalisation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u60	Again, Mr Henriksson, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u61	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Regeringen har haft ambithiösa planer på att höja sysselsättningen till 72 percent och dessutom tag i det så kallade hållbarhetsunderskottet på 10 billioner. Nu när vi ser resultatet av den ox rian så ser vi att man inte kommer att nå sysselsättningsgraden. Man kommer inte Heller att nå målet när det gäller underskottet. Det beror bland you give på att man blind litar på att social- och älsovårdsreformen ska spara 3 billioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u62	Mr President! In its preparation, the government assumes that the savings of 3 billion over a period of 10 years — in fact, by 29 C.E. — and, more specifically, not savings, but increases in future costs by 3 billion will be realised. The whole preparation has started from there. And yes, we have a purpose in caring for people. It's necessary. Otherwise, none of our money will be enough to cover the growing expenditure on care. For example, it is estimated that the cost of care for the elderly alone, according to expert estimates, will rise by up to 70% by the end of the 20th century from now on. We do believe that the government's social and health reform model, which has been brought to Parliament and whose last laws are being introduced, will achieve this EUR 3 billion. It's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u63	Next question, Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u64	Mr President! "The management register shall not be taken forward. The decision is the right one and corresponds to the Finnish people's line," said Timo Soini. "Memmepreparationregister in its format", said Minister of FinanceStubb in December 2015. "If Finlandssallii manages to registerfor foreign countries, it makes it more difficult to resolve insider dealing [Left: Ohoh!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u66	Mr President! Control registration in Europe is possible in most countries. We cannot by law prevent Finns from using the management register in other countries. This was examined for almost a year, and there was not even an official who would have agreed to present it. The management register will not be used in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u69	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask a supplementary question to rise up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u70	Mr President! Allowing foreign ownership management registration increases opportunities for hide-and-seek, tax evasion and financial crime. Today, however, a report was actually adopted in committee which allows Finns to hide their holdings in the management register abroad. In its statements, the committee expressed only the hope that the loopholes that are now being created might be blocked in the future by other legislation — but that is not enough. We cannot create loopholes and hope that they will be closed in the future. For some reason, the government did not bring any proposals to the Parliament that could have blocked these loopholes already and required direct ownership of Finnish ownership also through foreign CSDs. That is what Norway is doing at the moment. It also requires direct ownership of its citizens in foreign CSDs. Mr President! I'll ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u71	Mr President! Once again, this is the view of civil servants, officials in charge, that this is as far as European legislation is concerned, and it was therefore absolutely essential that this withholding tax should be introduced, but it should be levied on those who use management registration abroad. So it's possible today,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u74	Mr President! The Government's proposal does not directly allow the assets to be hidden from the public and the tax authorities in Finland. It enables this through foreign CSDs. But does the government understand where this proposal leads? After this presentation, anyone can appeal to the EU Court of Justice that Finland allows Finnish residents to register for management abroad but not in Finland. This would be the end of the Finnish direct and open ownership system, because the derogation negotiated by Finland is only valid in the prevailing legal situation, not after this change. The EU Court of Justice will judge that the system must be equal, and through this change the management registration will also be in Finland. My question is: why does the government not just admit directly that the management registers are wanted in Finland through this bend?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u75	Mr President! European legislation makes it possible to register management in most countries of the European Union. We have already removed the use of the management register in Finland from my predecessor's proposal, but European legislation requires us to do this. But let no one imagine that the government is conscious of certain ways of circumventing taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u76	Mr President! First Touko Aalto about whether this Finnish exception rule 385 is in force continuously: yes. It will continue to apply. It has been reviewed by the Commission and has, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, confirmed, among other things, that it will remain in force. Surely everyone will be interested in why the Finns are now involved. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u77	Mr President! An excellent speech from the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, who has been very familiar with this matter over the last few years and months. That's right, they're gonna put these ponies in place, and they're gonna be strong ponies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u78	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the preparation of the matter to be presented. This was carefully prepared last autumn. In the middle of Christmas, this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stagnated mainly in the internal disagreements of the government parties. After that, there was nothing and the opposition cannot be accused of it. Then all of a sudden, during the debate on the spending limits, a thick report of this kind comes to the committee, which should be decided in three days, the committee's report. This is bad governance that would not be hoped for in the future. Secondly, the opposition committee voted in favour of repealing this proposal because this does not prevent the stock ownership from being hidden under the protection of foreign management registers, and that is the core issue. We suggest that a more transparent arrangement should be provided in this respect, the model that has been in Finland, that it can be done directly through accounting arrangements and that it can be obtained who owns them. The Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy asked the Commission for an opinion in this regard,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u85	Mr President! This has been a very difficult, difficult bill, because we in Finland have been clearly in favour of transparency all along. Already in 2012, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy made a proposal and a request that Finland should hopefully be able to make an open system for the whole of Europe and the EU, a direct book-entry account. This did not happen, but different European countries made a decision to make it possible to make a model of both the management register and direct ownership, and unfortunately we cannot control any other EU country by Finnish legislation. It's the fact that this is where we're going. However, I would have asked the Minister for Finance: What are we trying to do in the future? After all, we are striving for transparency in Finnish society. In future, how will we try to influence the EU level so that we can move in an even more open direction? How, then, will this debate continue, perhaps in the form of the following regulations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u86	Mr President! However, everything has to do with our objectives and our work, that we have the best possible rules and legislation to prevent tax evasion or the concealment of property, even financial crime. That is why Finland is working very actively in the OECD, which is constantly becoming new guidelines, new international legislative proposals aimed, among other things, at eliminating tax havens and thus tax evasion. At EU level, we are constantly making new legislation aimed at curbing and preventing tax evasion, and we are doing national work. In addition, we have more than 500 police officers investigating financial crimes and working against the informal economy. All of these relate to the whole,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u87	Next question, Congressman Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u88	Mr President! Many of the decisions that were expected came out of the government’s midwayer, although they were mostly cosmetic patches for the drastic cuts that had been made in the past. However, there was one decision that was to be taken in advance: an increase in the refugee quota. There are more refugees in the world now than ever. Many people are forced to leave their homes because of wars and crises. When I asked about the increase in the refugee quota in autumn 2016, you, Minister Risikko, replied that it could be done when the numbers of asylum seekers stabilize and are under control. Now the amounts have been at a lower level and under control for a long time. You told us before the beginning of the halfway line that you were going to present a 300 increase in Finland's refugee quota. So I ask you, Minister Risikko: did you present an increase in the refugee quota in the middle row, the size of which, and what kind of debate took place?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u89	Mr President! Just as the questioner said, so really before the midwayer I presented this and also in the midwayer this was discussed. At this point, that change is not being made, but it is coming back to that. That is still the aim. Many people in Finland have taken the view that when this situation calms down with regard to asylum seekers, we will return to this. From 2013 to 2014, Finland had a refugee quota of 1050 — by the way, it has long been the 750. In 2015, we received a very large number of asylum seekers and it has now remained in the 750. But when this situation is calming down, it is time to assess this also in Finland, because these people who receive that refugee status are precisely the people who need it most, and their refugee needs and asylum needs are assessed by the UN.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u90	Two or three supplementary questions. I would ask those representatives who wish to present one to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u91	Mr President! I wonder when this time will come when we know that these numbers of asylum seekers have actually fallen and been controlled and yet the need for an increase in the number of refugees is great because of the world situation. We all want to help those who have fled their homes primarily on the ground and reduce the need for dangerous journeys and smuggling of human beings, and that is why it is necessary to increase the refugee quota. Finland can afford to help the most vulnerable people. This is the view of many Finns, just as the Minister said. For example, President Halonen, Archbishop Mäkinen and Economic Professor Korkman have commented on the matter. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has also said that those fleeing the war must be helped. So I ask you, Minister Risiko: when will this matter come to the table, and when will decisions be taken to increase the refugee quota?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u92	Mr President! That is what we are dealing with and evaluating all the time. Just as I have said: when things calm down and now it seems to be calming down. However, the situation is that we do not know what is happening in Turkey. For example, if Turkey withdraws its agreement on what they have agreed within the EU, the situation in Finland is quite different. So when we look at next year's budget, we will certainly be assessing this again in next year's budget debate. This year has already been agreed, but it is next year, and I am sure we will come back to this in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u93	Mr President! The European Union's approach to internal transfers of asylum seekers proved to be a very unsuccessful solution. Very few countries, even in practice, fulfilled these commitments. Instead, it is this quota refugee system that is much more manageable and better form of humanitarian immigration and a form of assistance for these large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers, and that is why it should be favoured throughout the European Union. I would like to ask you now whether the government and you, at these Council of Ministers meetings, have made a strong point of this, because we have many countries in the European Union which, in practice, do not take quota refugees at all, i.e. whether they can be achieved at European Union level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u94	Mr President! We've talked about this in a lot of meetings. Also, when you talk about these internal transfers, we must remember that when we have quotad these internal transfers to Finland too, Finland has changed in the category of internal transfers the fact that we get people from the category of resettlement who are right there in the camps that are most in need. We have already negotiated that we should be able to take from those camps in this category, which is part of the internal movement. After all, we have internal transfers, then we have resettlement, and then we have refugees and then there are asylum seekers who are still walking here. In all of these, Finland has done a great deal of work, and we have also urged others to do what we have done, to help the people, but also to make sure that others are not concerned that it cannot be just the most active countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u95	Next question, Congressman Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u96	Mr President! Today, the blue cross flags are fluttering in the spring when we spend the 30th national veteran's day. With very humble gratitude and great respect for the work of a generation of veterans, this House has decided to add EUR 40 million to the services to be taken home by veterans. Today, at that national Veteran festival, there were comments and concerns that very many veterans live at home with the support of family carers. There are questions about how to arrange a break for family carers, perhaps take a few days off, and also allow a veteran a change in the place of temporary care. I can see that this minister is missing from the box, but I would still like to address the question to the Government because I consider this to be such an important issue: will there be enough temporary care facilities for veterans to ensure that family carers are able to cope?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u98	Mr President! It's a very important day. This day honors the veterans and also those who have lost their lives. But you specifically talked about the services to be taken home, and it is quite true that this funding has been increased. We have also increased the funding of family carers overall. Now there is also how to ensure those care facilities: It has been added that these brother homes, which are still in existence at the moment, can then be in the process of securing such shifts. But it is also the case that the municipalities have the possibility of having such a coordinator who believes that there are certainly these places for shift care. We have also developed family care in this government. So it wouldn't always have to be the case that you have to take a relative to an institution sometimes, so that the carer gets a day off, but that's where you go home. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u99	Next question, Congressman Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u100	Mr President! According to a report published by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in February, the sharing economy is a growing sector in Finland, especially in the future, and it is true that the sharing economy is the future. Its popularity is steadily increasing among the people, but legislation is not keeping up. Thus, quite a few sectors are currently operating in a kind of grey zone of legislation and thus do not achieve their full potential. Finland should be proactive and new legislation and structures to ensure that the rights and obligations of the various parties are clear. Taxation should also be reformed. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did the mid-term review not take any further steps in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u101	Mr President! Congressman Wallin is exactly right. The distribution economy will be very significant. Its role is highlighted. We clearly have a problem that legislation has not kept up with this development. This will be met in a number of sectors, and the government has had a debate on this in the mid-term debate. There is a survey going on where these problems are. We have deregulation, we have red tape, all of which are linked to this whole. We have also announced that the government is going to go into an artificial intelligence programme, which is one part of the fact that this condition will be created and that all the legislation that might hinder the development of these projects will also be reviewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u102	Minister Vehviläinen, briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u103	I will go on to say that the decision on the reform package was taken in the mid-term debate that we want to create mechanisms to make Finland the best pilot and innovation environment in the world in 2025. This issue of the platform economy is linked to it, which means that we must quickly be able to find mechanisms to dismantle legislative barriers so that these innovations can move forward. We took three specific areas where these experiments could be carried out in particular. For the base economy
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u104	Next question, Mr Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u105	Mr President! I'm asking about a positive structural change. The spending limits of the government were successful, and the process of doing things will now continue throughout the parliamentary term — we can be sure of that. This said that 34,000 new jobs have been created and the starting point is that 30,000 jobs could be created in Southwest Finland by the middle of the next decade. Lapland also has a very positive buzz. The government has now made some decisions on labour mobility, on daily allowance solutions and so on. On the other hand, further efforts are still needed, including the creation of such a platform of expertise in south-west Finland, and it is probably also a question of master's training and others. How does the government not now understand what it started last year to continue these pilots of positive structural change: the possibility of involving not only Minister Orpo and our homeland but also the whole of Finland in this rise?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u106	Mr President! The Government wants to ensure that the growth of the Finnish economy is not caught up in the lack of skilled labour. In connection with this, the Government has launched work on investigative staff aimed at ensuring that we can ensure competence in, among other things, the south-west of Finland, where both the shipyard and the automobile industries are currently heavily employing people. With regard to this whole, we have two rapporteurs, Jari Jokinen, who has already submitted his report, and then Esko Aho, who is doing more from the point of view of industrial needs. On the basis of these, the government agreed in the mid-term debate that, in the context of the supplementary budget process, we will review these skills needs and related training needs and take decisions so that we can ensure that we have access to a skilled workforce through training, including through labour mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u107	One more question. Congressman Oinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u108	Mr President! I'm going to ask Minister Tiilikainen a question. Recently, there has been a lot of public talk about home and small house mold and moisture damage. The problems of other public buildings, such as schools, home and indoor air, have also been highlighted. The fitness checks on residential properties aim to draw the attention of owners of small houses and real estate, especially in the case of real estate transactions, to the condition of the building in question as sellers and buyers. Among other things, fitness inspections improve the so-called life-cycle maintenance of buildings and prevent the emergence of real estate disputes. Minister Tiilikainen, is the government going to react or intervene in the current quality of the content of fitness checks, the qualifications of inspectors and liability for damages in order to make the content of the checks more reliable in order to determine the condition of the dwelling?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u109	Mr President! Representative Oinonen raises a very important issue, because most of us Finns certainly have the biggest investment in housing, which then has a huge amount of wealth attached to it. And when a transaction is made, yes, both the seller and the buyer would have to have a common understanding of the condition of the residential property so as not to disappoint later. In this respect, it is good to have that external inspector present. Now you asked how to ensure that such an external fitness inspector is competent enough to carry out an impartial assessment. Of course, the aim cannot be to create more red tape, but this problem is so big, as you described, of human importance, that it is worth seriously considering whether we should set a bar for these fitness inspectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u110	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 3/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u111	Mr President! The report of the National Audit Office to Parliament on the mid-term report on budgetary surveillance for the 2015-2018 parliamentary term is under discussion. After all, this procedure is an important part of the correction of economic governance that was launched after the financial crisis in Greece, i.e. after 2010. One observation was that governments in all countries did not give a reliable, truthful picture of the state and public finances. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] On the other hand, the Audit Committee has reviewed not only this report and its background but also external experts on the legitimacy and relevance of the findings of this report. In this assessment of central government finances and the assessment of fiscal policy, some findings are indisputable according to the Agency. Firstly, the Agency has concluded that the government itself is heading in the right direction in terms of fiscal consolidation. But in its report, the Agency concludes with the worrying finding that not all of these set objectives will be achieved by the forecasts and decisions that are now being made, and that this target of 72% in particular is not being achieved. The same applies to the success of the central government deficit target. The Agency concludes that the Stability and Growth Pact is in a situation where the debt criterion for the so-called corrective component of this Pact is breaking. Furthermore, the Agency concludes that the medium-term objectives of this structural residue — a somewhat difficult concept, but an important term — are not being achieved either. The committee's own conclusion is that these key findings correspond to the information received by the committee in its expert consultation. In particular, the Committee stresses the importance of economic growth and employment in relation to the success of these economic objectives. The development of employment, as has been said many times in this Chamber, is absolutely crucial. Of course, the high unemployment rate has been and will be a burden on public finances. The fact that the employment target of 72% is not now expected to be reached means that it will be difficult to achieve the public sector debt and deficit targets during the final parliamentary term. That is why concrete measures are needed to strengthen employment during Question Time, including during this parliamentary term. Well, then, one of the findings of the committee is that you do not even have a return to normal growth — which is normal now, it is assumed that even if it is 2% — will not change this basic concern about the budgetary situation. This involves, above all, the known additional expenditure pressures on ageing populations and the resulting more or less famous debate on the sustainability gap. Then it is known that, in the long term, economic growth throughout the West, especially in Europe, seems to be slower than we have been accustomed to in previous decades. One of the conclusions of the committee, which also gives cause for care, is that the development of the international economy remains extremely uncertain. Nevertheless, it is now for last year and this year that, after that long period of financial crisis, the international economy and the European economy have been strengthened in such a way that it also provides a better basis for the development of the Finnish economy. Of course, there are two major routes to this strengthening of public finances. On the other hand, there is an increase in income. The increase in income is about employment development, economic growth, the income it brings, and then, of course, tax policy. This is the aspect that the committee did not go through in detail. Then the other half is spending control. Furthermore, the committee did not go through this development of expenditure in detail, but focused on establishing that further action would be needed in this area. Well, the Government Programme has set sector-specific targets for balancing the budgetary position, the overall budgetary position, at the end of this parliamentary term. These objectives apply equally to central government finances, local government finances and occupational pension funds. With regard to these objectives, the fact is that the fiscal situation is weaker than that pursued, above all because of central government deficits. On the earnings-related pension side, the objectives set are expected to be met, and the development of the municipal side is also such that there has been a calming down of debt and, at the very least, the growth of local government deficits has been halted. But there will still be a deficit, and that, of course, will also increase this entire debt burden. It is equally clear that these pressures on the ageing of the population are directed more strongly at the local government economy, possibly the regional economy in the future, and here the key is to make reforms that would then lead to better control of expenditure. The committee has gone through the most important of these reforms in particular. It is this reform of social and health services. As has been said here on various occasions, the aim is not to estimate but to achieve a cost development of 3 billion less than without these measures. The committee's observation is that the costs of the social welfare reform are highly uncertain and also present a risk of cost increases, not cost reductions. In any event, during the transition period, costs will be incurred in terms of wage harmonisation and also in terms of significant investment in information systems. The increased costs in the short term are certain, but there is a risk that in the longer term, even in the medium term, there will also be pressure to increase costs, particularly in relation to this freedom of choice legislation, in line with international examples. This may lead to a state being forced to provide additional discretionary funding to the provinces. The committee believes that the government should draw up a concrete plan to balance public finances in line with the objectives of the government programme. In this context, the Committee stresses in particular the risks associated with the implementation of the social welfare reform, which should be better taken into account in further preparation. The committee then went through the impact of the rise in interest rates on public finances separately. The forecast is that interest rates in the euro area will remain reasonably low and have so far remained low much longer than we thought some years ago, lower than what has been before this financial crisis. Then the paradox here is that the impact of low interest rates on the general government balance as a whole has been an increase in the deficit. Of course, when you quickly think that the reduction in interest rates would be advantageous to the debtors, the overall impact of public finances has been different, and this is due to employment pension funds. When the employment pension fund has such an impact on this overall financial position of general government, the lower interest rate level has resulted in a significant deterioration in earnings from the employment pension fund. According to the committee's estimate, an increase in interest rates by 1 percentage point would increase the property income of general government, mainly employment pension funds, by around EUR 1 billion, while general government's interest expenditure would increase by around EUR 0.5 billion. The conclusion of this is that the rise in interest rates, which sooner or later lies ahead, is a particularly serious problem for the state and also for the local government economy and should be prepared in advance for them by the state and the municipal decision-maker. This development is also important, of course, because this surplus of earnings-related pension funds has been the factor that has protected us so far from complying with the 3% general government deficit rule laid down in the European Union rules — that is, at a time when central government and local government have been severely in deficit. The committee then went through tax subsidies and the whole tax system separately, because there has been a lot of public debate about it. It has also been accompanied by a lot of new information, at least in the form of publicity, including a study by the State Economic Research Centre on the subject. In addition, the VTV recommendations have indicated that the tax system should be assessed as a whole. In this context, the use and effectiveness of tax subsidies should also be assessed more systematically. The committee's expert hearing will give rise to a few cautious observations and care in dealing with the matter. Firstly, these tax subsidies are a deviation from the normal structure of taxation. The committee's observation of all the reports it has received is that the introduction of tax subsidies and their dimension is influenced by a wide range of reasons. They can be related to social policy, support for the low-income, they can be related to employment, they can be related to Finland's cost level in international competition and in this context to company location decisions, many other issues, such as environmental objectives. The committee specifically wanted to say that some of these tax subsidies are rather theoretical calculations of what the reduced rate affects compared to the normal higher tax rate, in particular VAT. Such imputed tax subsidies include reduced rates for food, restaurants, books, medicines and travel, as well as tax-exempt dividends or reductions in energy taxation and inheritance taxation, so it is appropriate to look carefully at each tax subsidy in the course of this debate. The committee believes that all these aspects should be taken into account in the assessment of the functioning of taxation and that the information available from various studies on the impact of taxation on income distribution, employment, economic growth and the establishment of enterprises in Finland should be used. When the government did not take decisions in that spending limits debate about the fate of the tax subsidies or new decisions to redirect them, which we heard earlier in Question Time, it appears that the same findings that the committee made in its own work, that when you start looking at them in more detail, the initial enthusiasm for a clear and easy way of dealing with the matter will be considerably reduced. However, two conclusions were drawn from the committee's point of view. The first is that when new tax subsidies are introduced, it should always be assessed whether the objectives of the tax subsidy are justified and whether the tax subsidy achieves the objectives set for it. Secondly, the committee also considered it important to assess the effectiveness of existing tax subsidies in order to make it possible to reduce aid found to be ineffective. Finally, a few words on the functioning and transparency of these EU fiscal rules. There is a need to improve the functioning of EU rules. The committee will take a position on this and on the transparency of these rules. This is also in line with what the government has said in the EU debates on the reform of the rules. This structural residue criterion is particularly problematic when it is theoretical and concerns the medium-term objective. The committee then stated that Finland has this risk once again that the rules will have to be broken. Above all, it concerns the amount of debt, and this risk has once again been identified in a proactive review. However, so far we have been able to do better at the end. Let's see what happens this spring. The committee reached the unanimous opinion that it is nevertheless in Finland's interest that the rules promoting sound fiscal policies be respected. This debate is also held at regular intervals, but it is safer for a small country to be on the right side of the common rules set than on the wrong side. This has been a long line of Finnish membership of the EU. Then there is the question of the extent to which the whole of the EU's economic policy is needed, particularly in the context of the economic cycle. This is a debate that academics have been having for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u112	It took its second to speak for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u113	Mr President! It would certainly have been interesting to hear those replies when two Social Democratic MPs would have liked to have responded to Mr Heinäluoma's speech, but perhaps they will be able to challenge Heinäluoma later on for his speech. It is good to have a debate on fiscal policy and, of course, it would like to see more people in the Chamber from different committees where these issues are being dealt with. In the Committee on Budgets itself, I have been allowed this period, and it is important that the government has maintained its strict fiscal policy. The EUR 10 billion economic programme and the EUR 4 billion savings programme, which have been recorded, are objectives which must inevitably be adhered to, for example, in view of the concerns raised by the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma. As he said, the targets set in the Government Programme, such as the employment target of 72%, are not being achieved by the current measures, although further measures have been taken this week to promote this issue. If, for example, interest rates are going up, as this committee has gone through as part of it, for example, an increase in interest rates by 5 percentage points would already mean an increase of EUR 5 billion and an increase of EUR 1 billion in local government expenditure alone. They are significant changes and, of course, they need to be prepared. Now that the euro area has grown for about four years, however, in Finland, economic growth has stagnated and we have only now achieved that economic turn in this government. In other words, the direction of the economy has changed, the economy has turned to a gentle growth path. More jobs will be created. During that Question Time, the Minister of Labour, Lindström, gave the latest information on, for example, the reduction in unemployment for the long-term unemployed. They are the kind of positive signals that have now emerged. When we look at other indicators, positive messages come from both consumers and entrepreneurs. They have not been heard in Finland for a long time, but, fortunately, they have now been heard and renewed in the last year during this spring. The chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, called for concrete measures to strengthen employment, and it is good that some measures were now added to this basket. There was little room for manoeuvre for the government in that mid-term debate, and that is why there were only three of these priorities: knowledge, education, innovation, e.g. primary school equality money, vocational school reform, the Academy of Finland and others who were these recipients. Security, which is widely recognised in this Chamber. The need for further efforts in the police, the protection police, the Border Guard, the Defence Forces. But then this employment and reform which Mr Heinäluoma, as chairman of the committee, and also the committee, called for, and there were certain measures. Let us hope, for example, that the reduction in child care fees will affect employment in the way it is intended. However, more of these growth-supporting measures will certainly be needed, and the next place for them will be in the autumn when next year's budget is made. I personally believe it is important that additional measures should be targeted, above all, at strengthening employment, so that this target of 72% employment can be achieved and thus make the economy more stable. Fortunately, the signs are in the air now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u114	Well, now, obviously, a genuine confrontation is about to be created,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u115	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for having the opportunity to hold a bigger debate on economic policy in the framework of this important document. I believe that this same idea is shared by the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, who, I am sure, Mr Heinäluoman of the opposition would have much to add to that basis of the Committee on Audit. We have also worked on this in the Committee on Budgets, which has drawn attention to the fact that these measures, which the government is taking, are 'not, however, taking place at the level envisaged, or are not affecting in time'. I think that this message is rather loud in that the big goals of the government are not coming true. After these measures, the target of 72% of the employment rate will be around 70. But in the same way, 110,000 new jobs:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u116	The reply, I understood, to Mr Lindtman's speech by Mr Heinonen, and it is only after this speech that Mr Zyskowicz will receive the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u117	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. In fact, my own reply originally concerned this presentation by the chairman of the committee to the effect that I would have asked whether it was unanimous. But I remembered that it was. This report, if I have understood correctly, states that, even if economic growth returns to normal — assuming it is 2% — the government's deficit and employment targets are still not met. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u121	Mr President! As has been said in Question Time and now: in Finland, the economy is growing for a long time, unemployment is falling, employment is increasing, long-term unemployment is also declining.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u124	Mr President! Now, Mr Zyskowicz is using the old lawyer's doctrine that we should sort out the mess while at the same time making a mess of things. It is clear that there has been a turning point in the economy. It happened in 2015, also in employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u129	Mr President! This VTV story is already several months old, and the picture of the economy is changing, of course. There is no fortune teller here either, but, of course, action is still needed to ensure that this direction can be achieved and can be achieved. Mr President! Perhaps the chairman of the committee did not mention this procedure for macroeconomic imbalances, which is mentioned here with too little attention. After all, Finland has been involved in it all along. Sweden and Germany, among others, remained there. And this Finnish country report states that "The Government has taken decisive steps to improve the competitiveness of the economy. Thus, Finland is not considered to be experiencing the previously identified macroeconomic imbalances." I think that this is a positive point in all of this and, in part, tells us that the direction is right and that we are moving towards the objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u130	And Mr. Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u131	Mr President! Here Mr Lindtman asked whether this report by the Committee on Audit was unanimous. Indeed, it was unanimous, and I would like to draw particular attention here to the fact that the Audit Committee unanimously stated that the costs of the social welfare reform involve considerable uncertainty and even the risk of cost increases. And this is important in the sense that the single most significant restructuring of the EUR 10 billion target of closing the sustainability gap is precisely that social reform. And just now, during Question Time, we heard Minister Orpo affirming that the EUR 3 billion target is coming to fruition, but there is a different view in the unanimous report of the Committee on Audit, namely that it involves considerable uncertainty and considerable risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u132	At this stage, I will give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma. Then Mr Viitanen, who asked for a reply, is on the list of speakers, so let us go to the list of speakers. And after Mr Viitanen has spoken, the debate will continue if there is any reason to do so. This is how it's done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u133	Mr President! In my presentation, I tried to present the committee's report and the unanimous outcome that has been achieved here, and then left less of these personal opinions. However, when you look a little further at this and I go a little past the official report of that committee, I share Mr Räsänen's concern. So our problem is genuinely that even if we get to this target, say 2%, growth, then even after that there will be very serious budgetary problems. And they have been reported in this report by the Inspectorate, but in the expert hearings it was perhaps strengthened even a little more gloomy than what the Inspectorate refers to, and they relate not only to this development in interest rates and its impact on state finances, but also to this reform of social security. If I draw together what I have heard about this social reform in various contexts, there is nothing to suggest that this or the next parliamentary term will make any savings. This is becoming more expenditure, and when this frame is made,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u134	And sometimes the real speech, and that is Mrs Viitane's.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u135	Mr President! I have also had the opportunity to take part, in part, in the Committee on Audit and also in the Committee on Budgets, in these matters. Yes, I have the unfortunate same picture of expert statements on both occasions, that there is cause for concern, and the concern that is due is big, really. Which one of us actually believes that this is the kind of thing that will save the sum of 3 billion dollars? Now that there are still so many uncertainties that it is quite clear that, in the initial phase, it will increase costs and so on, I think that this concern is justified and should be borne in mind. In this Parliament’s debut, it sometimes surprises me, in a way, the ultra-optimistic feeling that comes from the government parties, that everything is all right now. No, it's not. What I think is essential now in this committee's unanimous report is precisely what has been said, that we recognise here too that the employment objectives are being missed, that the debt target is being missed, that these uncertainties relate, among other things, to social protection, which means that they make it more difficult for us to keep to the next stage, i.e. how we stick to the criteria laid down by the EU in terms of structural surpluses or indebtedness. The cycle is quite serious, and that is why this is a difficult situation. If the government has made a policy that is not fully focused on promoting growth and employment, it will contribute to the fact that sooner or later we are in the worst of a situation where the Commission is going to knock on the shoulder, that the debt objective is not being achieved, and you will have to make further cuts, or something else like that. In other words, all the things the opposition has been saying here for two years are certainly still worth keeping in mind. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u138	In this connection, let us take a short debate, starting with Mr Jarva.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u139	Mr President! First of all, with regard to this EUR 75 dependency rate, it must be said that it is a significant benefit for student families, which has long been expected. Student organisations have long hoped for it, and student support is now being reformed so that the majority of students will receive more money from August onwards in spite of the cut in the student grant. When they move to general housing support, their support will improve. From August onwards, the majority of university students will therefore receive more money than at present, even without student loans. Which means you can raise your student loan more if you want to. This is a fact. In addition, the income of student families is secured by this separation of care, so their income does not fall. Moreover, when day care fees are calculated or reset on the poorest, their remaining money will be better in the future. This is a fact. We can't ignore it. I would encourage the opposition to promote local reconciliation in Finland, for example, in the Swedish model, so there would be more jobs if employees and employers were able to agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u140	Mr President! I think this is a good debate on whether or not the government will reach the objectives it has set. I find it quite stunning if the opinion of the Committee on Finance, which has also been unanimously given to the committee concerned, states that, despite recent positive economic developments, the state of public finances has not improved significantly. Yes, Mr Zyskowicz, it is quite plain language, and in the previous debate I was unable to answer you, but that is what my position was based on. This, however, has been signed unanimously by the representatives of the Assembly. Now we are in a situation where, in practice, these growth measures, if the Prime Minister’s forecast of that 2% are realised, may reach just under half of the government’s goal of 110,000 jobs. You got 5,000 jobs created after a two-day pushover. After all, this is completely inconceivable. The debt targets are getting out of hand. There will be no break in debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u141	Mr President! We just saw Mr Pia Viitanen in the speaker room, who was very concerned about the state of public finances. Although he looked exactly the same and sounded the same, it was hard to believe that it was the same representative, Pia Viitanen, who, from the second row in this Chamber, has opposed virtually all the savings that the current government has put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u144	Mr President! Central government finances consist of revenue and expenditure. The reason why the deficit targets are not being met is that what the government cuts is being distributed, especially to the rich, in the form of tax reductions. This is the biggest problem for the government, while, as this report states, these tax reductions are, according to experts, inefficient. This, Mr Zyskowicz, is your government's biggest problem, or the government in which your party is. But, Mr President, these are the objectives. During the previous term of government, Mr Ala-Nissilä, Sipilä called on the then government to review its economic objectives if they were not achieved. This report now states that the government will not achieve this deficit target of less than 0.5% for central government finances,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u145	Mr President! In principle, I look back on what has been done and, of course, these plans too, but neither the Inspectorate nor the Audit Committee are any fortune-tellers. In other words, there will be a lot of action to be taken in the final election period to achieve these objectives, and we should support them. I myself am confident that — now that there was a spending limits bar that guaranteed that Finland will continue with this strong action that has been going on during Sipilä’s government — it will be possible to achieve its goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u146	Mrs Viitanen will have the floor, but let us take the floor. — Heinäluoma, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u147	Mr President! This is a very interesting debate. Given that there are clearly widely differing opinions and even heated debates on this issue, one would not believe that the report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u148	Now for the reply, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u149	Mr President! I do hope that Mrs Zyskowicz will listen to that Tampereian logic, for example, to Tammelantor or to Hervanta, where, in my opinion, the citizens are genuinely and rightly asking how it can be true that the government can afford to reduce the taxation of millions of inheritances, to give tax reductions to the good people, and at the same time, when the unemployed or the low-income people come: excuse me, you must be cut off. That this is a question of value choices, and each of us understands that. Obviously, for example, Mr Zyskowicz has not been familiar with our alternative budget, where we would take less debt, make different types of value choices, and that would give us jobs and fairer value choices for transport. But what is here now, President, in my opinion, is what has been said here, that the various committees have unanimously stated that the government will not achieve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u150	Mr President! When this is the representative Mrs Viitanen listed these unfortunate things, and I think that there are quite a few people there in Tammelatori who welcome the fact that this government will for the second time reduce the fees for day care. Thousands of families, including many families there, are admitted to free early childhood education. It's a big deal for a lot of families. It also allows some to go to work, it dismantles the incentive trap — and it is a value choice that you here called for. The equality allowance for comprehensive school, which also applies to many cities and many rural schools. There will be equality money, there will be money to improve the quality of basic education. And that is why competence, education and training were raised alongside employment measures as the top topic of this mid-term debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u151	Now I would ask those representatives to stand up who still want a response to this debate. We will finish this debate and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u152	Mr President! Today, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has published its own newsletter on how unemployment and long-term unemployment have developed in this country. By the end of March, Finland had 33,700 fewer unemployed and over 10,000 fewer long-term unemployed than one year ago at the same time. These actions have been announced here. It is true that the objectives of the government are very ambitious, very ambitious, and they still need action during this parliamentary term too. If you are familiar with crop material, there are quite a number of points there, such as promoting employment, such as the introduction of combined insurance in Finland, which would improve entrepreneurship and seasonal work. Very important things are on the way, growth efforts and capitalization, but nothing is enough for the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u153	Mr President! It is true that good news came from the mid-term debate that the government put money into education as well as on these basic school equality funds or the care-sharing increase. But the truth is that these were targets, which had been cut with a really rough hand at first, and the fact that they have now been put back there is very welcome, but it does not solve the problem that these cuts have caused, the fact that our level of competence has gone down, the inequality has increased and the learning gap in schools has increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u156	Mr President! We agree that these government objectives are getting out of hand. This is reflected both in the opinion of the Committee on Finance and in this report by the Committee on Audit and something should be done in this regard. Of course, at the beginning of the week we expected a big bang, where the government would have looked like we were actually going to run for these own goals. But, in fact, both employment and economic objectives were not strengthened on the basis of this early week's debate, and I am sorry for that, because we will then be in a situation where it will be easy for us to continue to face this path of government cuts. And if it is in front of us, then in practice it means that you do not introduce taxation as a means of doing so either, which would have been possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u157	Mr President! It is always interesting to hear about these cuts in education, when the previous government was indeed cutting more from secondary education than this government does. In addition, the Greens in their alternative budget were also making cuts in education and not cancelling the cuts in the current government that have been made to the second largest administrative sector. Fortunately, education is being reformed so that there will not be so much money going on in the future. Fortunately, reforms are also being made so that young people can get to work more quickly then immediately after training. I also wonder why we are not discussing it more here when we talk about this development of central government finances, but it is important that this indebtedness should be brought to an end during the government term. That is a goal that will be firmly adhered to. The economy cannot be managed — no one can manage their own economy — if there is constant over-indebtedness. That is our top priority in addition to employment management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u158	Mr President! First of all, Mr Heinonen's example of these equality funds is a good example of the decisions of this government's spending limits panel: first cut out completely and then reinstate some — and celebrates as a great achievement in education policy. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u161	Mr President! As far as taxation is concerned, it is always said that high incomes are favoured. On the contrary, this government reduced this threshold of the solidarity tax. Now there is a differentiation in solidarity and so on. In the last parliamentary term, however, taxes were tightened every year. That was one of the reasons why Finland's economy stalled, because all taxes, however, go to a loss of competitiveness. But, indeed, there is no doubt that there is not all in the pipeline to achieve the objectives, but this is two years to do. If you look at the last economic figures, you look at the last employment figures, you look at the way things are done, which is — personally, I am positive that the government is getting to or very close to the targets. That would be our common interest. There is now a very positive risk in this economy of ours, too, if there are no major problems in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u162	Mr President! Nor does anyone on this side of the hall say that everything is well now. But the direction is now the right one in the economy, and that is why I am surprised by the opposition's demand for a change of direction. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ] Then there's another question. On 16 March, Mr Mikkonen, your party chairman Ville Niinistö told the entire Finnish people through Twitter that "the government intends to cut EUR 25 million more from early childhood education in the spending limits debate". Now I ask, Mr Mikkonen: is this such a much-spoken fake news or is this such an alternative fact? The fact is that the government did not cut an inch of early childhood education in the spending limits debate, but instead increased resources for early childhood education by more than EUR 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u163	I now turn to the following answers: Mr Mikkonen, Mr Kiuru, Mr Heinonen and Mr Viitanen. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u164	Mr President! It is indeed a great thing that the government made small increases in education, early education, in the middle of the debate. We are very pleased about these, although they did not cover the drastic cuts that the government did earlier, but the direction was quite right here. Then I want to fix the weird idea that's moving around here. When in the last government — yes — we and many other parties were cutting out of education, that is why, in the run-up to the elections, everyone said that this cannot continue, this must become a stop — but the present government continued this policy of cutting. Our alternative budget was aimed at putting all the training cuts back there and finding the money, but these cuts came at such a rate that we missed about ten million. I do not see how it is such a great sin for us when these real cuts were made by this government for hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u165	Mr President! Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, said to me quite cleverly when he came to the end of the two-day negotiations that more employment policy measures would be needed. I'm sure it crystallized this two-day offer to keep it thin. Why are we now so foaming that these measures should have been stronger: because these government objectives are not being fulfilled, and the fear is that at some point these things will have to be put right. We very much hope that the government will be able to act in a clean and effective manner to ensure that this happens. Now it is a question of saving it in a way that is sustainable. At the end of the last government term, it was said that there was no point in saving education. The previous government saved EUR 2.7 billion from education and training on a cumulative basis. This government has saved EUR 3 billion from education, and the coalition as the only government party has already saved EUR 6 billion from education cumulatively, which says:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u166	Mr President! I don't quite understand this conversation. When Mr Lindtman listened last week and last week and under the scales, it was shouted that you should cancel the savings. Now that those savings have been cancelled, it is now required to cancel those savings cancellations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u169	All right, Mr Lindtman's name was mentioned so strongly that he would be given a reply, and then Mr Viitanen, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u170	Mr President! Let me make this so clear that Mr Heinonen understands. It is a very good thing that the government withdrew part of its decision to cut the equality allowance for schools. That is quite clear. I agree with that. It's a good thing you confessed that it's a cancellation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u177	Mr President! It just occurred to me that maybe this fake news was on the move before the election. I remember a chairman of the convention who waved a note that there was no further cuts in education. I do not know what fake news it really was, or an alternative fact, but this now reveals all the truth about the mentality of this government that has taken place throughout this reign. It is quite true that this was just as Mr Lindtman described it. The good things that are now being advertised here are cancellations of previous surgeries. So here we are still at the cutting level, such as this quality money for basic education: a permanent cut of 40 million years, and now we are returning 15. I remember representative Heinonen with the joy of Metso money: permanent cut of 18 million, returned 5. So this is the logic, and here we go. Perhaps that is why the parliamentary groups have now swallowed up this government's spending limits decision, because apparently they have not opened these, but perhaps only read the lines in which they say there will be more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u178	All right, now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u179	Mr President! In my opinion, the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, presented the committee's report fairly and drew attention to the very right, large-scale issues. First of all, Finland's indebtedness: Every billion that is taken away is out of the resource that may be needed later. The precautionary principle should be respected. Gradually, Finland's debt position is beginning to be so high that even a slight change in interest rates is beginning to cause major additional difficulties with the 100-150 billion-dollar loan pool. No matter how far you try to calculate that causality, there is ultimately the ability of industry to invest and borrow. It also affects the financial position of employment pension companies in such a way that the return on interest-rate instruments is less significant. Prediction of cyclical trends has proved extremely difficult in Finland, at least. Under the leadership of the Bank of Finland, this issue has been pursued for probably a hundred years with poor success, and even though computer programming has progressed over the last 30 years and the capacity in machines has increased, the result is still rather low. In fact, no turning points in the cyclical forecast have been predicted. It is very easy to make predictions that start with trendy development. But I do remember a finance minister saying that Finland will not be affected by the financial crisis. He is now playing an important role at the very European level in these matters. You could say that a mega-class misassessment, but not uncommon in itself. It could be said that there are extremely few people who are able to assess economic development with confidence over and over again, even in a way. What, then, is the final cause of the problems here? There are over 600,000 people in Finland without an active role in working life where they should be. If we go back 40 years, the situation was different. At that time we had a tenth of this number of unemployed people and the then President of the Republic began to shape the emergency government and thereby take over the situation. The assessment by the OECD and many other research institutes — which are outside — is that our labour market is too rigid. In Finland, adjustment takes place through negotiations, redundancies and unemployment. And there is quite a long transition to cheaper or less paid work, when there are usually no better ones left when the economy goes in the wrong direction, and this is an expensive fall for the state, but also, above all, for people who will be easily excluded before long. After a couple of years of unemployment, as you well know, the return to the labour market is more random than possible. It may also seem that, regardless of the government base, it is overwhelmingly difficult to carry out these structural reforms. There are always those who, at least in the short term, want to buy time and postpone the problems, but one day the head is going to be a jerk. With regard to what the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, expressed his opinion on the effects of social security, I am quite concerned about them when it seems that wage harmonisation at regional level is creating a different level of cost than it has been up to now. And perhaps when the supply of services is increased, the use of these services will expand. Is it possible to achieve an improvement through productivity that the total cost of the state would remain at the expected or expected minus 3 billion? In my opinion, it is uncertain to say the least. Rather, I would say that, in the short term, it is certain that costs will increase: we will have to invest in different systems. I have wondered how municipalities will survive after four years, when at least certain municipalities will have a significant number of real estate with a debt burden on the municipality's balance sheet, but the use is in a province which is not necessarily obliged to use these, which it considers to be extra real estate. All in all, Finland is about to end up in a development trap that I will be waiting for the work of Mr Lindtman in two years' time, when he is a minister, how he will solve this. Here I come in advance to warn that everything that has been spoken is in the archives of Yle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u180	Mr President! I will return to this committee report and to its great line. After all, the debate in that debate mainly concerned this recent decision by the government on the spending limits, its effects and its content and importance. For understandable reasons, it is of course a recent decision and a topical political issue. But then, from the point of view of Finland's overall survival, this little longer-term perspective, past this decision on the spending limits, will have a really big impact on the operating conditions of all of us, on the well-being of our citizens and also on the satisfaction of our citizens. The need to talk about these threats and risks in this longer development is inevitable. This social reform, which was already referred to in that debate and also in my own presentation, is a very big question mark for the time being. In fact, since this matter has now been clarified, where this 3 billion came from, it is certainly not an estimate of what can be achieved, but it was the starting point of the previous planning of the Ministry of Finance, which was already in the run-up to this government, that in order to achieve this big framework of reducing the sustainability gap by around 10 billion, the sub-target of its objective is to achieve this 3 billion by means of social reform. So that is the objective, and then it is a completely different matter as to the speed at which it is to be achieved and the measures that bring it and whether it is to be achieved. Until now, everything that has been heard about this social reform will give rise to great concern when assessing the state of public finances. If you look at Sweden as an example of such limited freedom of choice in health care, particularly in the health sector, then it was not the result that expenditure was saved or expenditure turned down, but that it was the result of a stronger demand for these services and an increase in costs. And this was especially in the population - rich areas where this freedom of choice was of greater importance. Now the question is: when we go to a stronger model of freedom of choice than this Swedish model was, can we do so in such a way that it leads to the opposite of what happened in Sweden? Are we so much more innovative, so much better than the Swedes, that we are doing things on the same path, reducing expenditure and not increasing it? When you think of it this way, you realize that you are here to face difficult, really difficult questions. The second point, which was also discussed in committee, but which was not overlooked in the debate, concerns this issue of the development of municipal loan management costs. One solution to the social welfare reform is that municipal social and health expenditure is transferred to the province in this model and then their funding is transferred to the state. As a result, the tax revenues of municipalities will be significantly reduced and it is estimated that around two thirds of the tax revenues will not be received by municipalities. When municipalities have a considerable amount of debt — long ago this amount of municipal debt exceeded 10 billion and has since continued to grow steadily — the question is: what happens to credit ratings for municipalities? When the debtor’s debt burden remains unchanged but the income falls, more than half of the income is left out, there is a fear that the credit rating of the municipalities may deteriorate and, as a result, the availability of the loan and the maintenance costs of the loan will be on the increase. I think Mr Lehti referred to this property problem that, in addition to this, there is a threat that a large number of indecent properties will remain in the municipalities, which will be very uncertain in the future in terms of social and health services. The municipal guarantee centre has drawn attention to this risk of increasing the cost of municipal funding, and that too is one of the things that was quoted in the work of the Committee on Finance, and that report has little to do with this. It follows, however, that there are a number of different directions in this and the next parliamentary term, perhaps rather the type of view that can be that the social reform, as good as it is in its objectives and as supportive as it is in its objectives and as necessary, can be more cost-enhancing in this and in the next parliamentary term. And then we stay and see what happens after that, that is, after six years, during the 2023 parliamentary term. This is for the country. Then I come to the rules of the European Union's economic and growth and stability pact and to comply with them. No representative in the debate wanted to intervene in this matter. From time to time, there is a very strong public debate on it, and I think that this should also be discussed in Parliament. I will just take up these two points. The first concerns Finland's policy on the Stability and Growth Pact. It is worth considering not only in the cabinets of the government and in the parliamentary committees but also in this Chamber what line Finland is taking in relation to the terms of the Stability and Growth Pact: will we continue to take these conditions into account in our own actions, with the utmost effort being made to comply with them and to avoid violating the terms of this agreement? This is a big mental matter, and now the committee has decided on it — in a way you can say in the spirit of Mr Lehde’s speech that, in this way, even the committee decided on this precautionary principle — that it is safer for a small country to start by trying to comply with these conditions. Then there is a difference between how good they are for economic policy or for European economic policy. But for the survival of our own country, caution in this area may well be wisdom, and Parliament should be able to talk about this matter and take a position on as difficult a matter as it may be. No one can be sure of that, so it is to some extent also, not now a philosophical, but certainly not a knowledge-based aspect. The second point concerns the ongoing reform of the Stability and Growth Pact as a whole and of the related legislation. When Finland's ambition, which was also supported by the committee, is that the rules should be simple and transparent and in that way all decision-makers must be able to see what is being committed to, what is being pursued, then the other side is that the simpler these rules are, the more they may conflict with the practical aspects. In fact, the Union has now gone in a more flexible direction in this framework of rules. In order to avoid the need to impose sanctions in the context of the deficit procedure, such as a decision to impose fines on the State for breach of the terms of the Stability and Growth Pact. With a more flexible approach, not only has there been pressure from big countries, such as France and Italy, in this direction, from Spain and so on, but it has been the idea that perhaps this flexibility will be a better result for economic growth and hence employment in the euro area as a whole. In this respect, we have a significant difference both in terms of financial and exchange rate policy, as well as in the wake of the US financial crisis. It may well be that the tight policies of the euro area, and also the monetary policy of the euro area, worsened the financial crisis after 2010. In other words, the attempt to quickly cut these deficits in the euro area as a whole may well have been a factor which led to a reduction in domestic demand, a reduction in the total demand for the euro area and thus to aggravate the situation of countries in difficulty and also have an impact here in Finland. This too should be discussed not only by academics, economic researchers, but also by political decision-makers, which route is being taken. We too are in favour of transparency and the simplest possible model, but is it true that these flexibility opportunities are still needed? I do not want to answer this question, but I would also like Parliament to wake up with this bigger question of sound economic policy in the euro area, especially since there are also elected MPs with significant economic education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u181	Mr President! It is quite true that this report by the Committee on Audit refers, for example, to the effects of interest rate policy. And in the moment when Finland’s economic situation has been fragile, of course, the most important thing for us is that we can use our own efforts to reverse the Finnish economy. And yes, we must also be confident that the European economy must also be stable and that it will have a very clear effect on our economy. There has been talk here about this EU macroeconomic imbalance procedure and, in fact, Finland got out of it, unlike Sweden, for example. As I recall, there are still issues in the procedure in Germany. In two years' time, the government has taken the right measures, and they have also been recognised by the Commission, but the country's economy is far from complete. Much remains to be done and, as has been said during the debate, the government's economic objectives are very ambitious and they still require a great deal of action. However, the effort is being made to do this by means of a series of measures. Every less unemployed person is an appallingly important issue and, for example, the recent decision that daily care fees are already being reduced for the second time — and this time precisely because of the attempt to encourage people to work — is bringing an estimated 4200 new jobs. There has also been criticism of the increase in the guardianship, and the centre sees it as a structural reform, above all. It is a reform which I hope will also remain in the coming parliamentary term and is very important for small student families, for low-income students. There's also a bunch of history around here. The arch of history is that this government invested 300 million in the midwayer. The Social Democrats will remember what the previous government did in the mid-term debate: 300 million cuts and tax increases were reported in the same amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u182	Mr President! I think this is, could I say, shocking, perhaps even a little gratifying, that this is perhaps the way in which the representatives of the government parties have been harnessed to tell us such so-called little, little positive, cute reforms, what the government is doing. The fact is, for example, that, at the same time as it is said that there are now increases in school equality money, so silly, we are not saying that everything has been cut off first and that the level is much lower than it has been in the past. In other words, we can always talk beautifully about these things, but I think we should really go to the sources of these things now and deal with the situation where we are and where we are now. In relation to this, for example, Mr President, I believe that the chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Antti Lindtman, asked an extremely important question to which unfortunately we did not receive an answer from the government parties: that is, if we have previously sought the maximum deficit of one billion and suddenly the threefold figure itself is already recorded, was it 4.2, is it not quite a big question? That is why, Mr President, I can say quite frankly that I would normally not resent it, but now I am a little annoyed that representatives Heinonen and Zyskowicz have left the Chamber because I really wanted the government parties to be here and now to analyse this. Of course, we will continue to have economic policy debates, and I am sure we will get answers to this, but I think, I would say, it is quite big news, however, if the government, in such a spectacular way, allows its own objectives to be flexible and in no way reacts to what Sipilä himself has required at the time. But, Mr President, in my speech, I would like to say, to the last wise, analytical speech by Mr Heinäluoma, that I do agree with exactly the fact that it is a good thing that the committee has come to the conclusion that, in the name of the precautionary principle, here and now, we have to assume that we are truly trying to comply with these EU criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u183	Mr President! Every time we look back on these historical acts, it is good to remember what the major parties promised in the 2015 spring elections to drive if they get to the government, specifically to create jobs and increase employment. Four economic research institutes, including the Bank of Finland, were asked by Yle to see what the major parties were promoting in these electoral programmes. As far as the SDP is concerned, it was stated that the cuts will finally be carried out in secondary education with this EUR 270 million cut, which was stopped before the elections. Then it has been mentioned that a good objective is to increase exports and investment, but there were no concrete ways of doing so in this electoral programme. It was also a great thing that you would have reduced taxation on low and middle incomes, and that is what we have done during this parliamentary term. Taxation has been calculated in such a way that things can be moved forward. But there are no other ways of increasing employment. Thus, the economic research institutes are responsible for the activities of the SDP. These measures have now been taken during this term of government, that it is precisely to receive and provide work and that means have been sought to facilitate the fact that it must always be more profitable to receive and do work than to stay at home. That is also what these active models are aiming for. It is a difficult piece of work to reduce the benefits that have been achieved, but the most important thing is to get people to work and genuinely to work with their own salary money to take care of their own social security. That's the most important thing. What was especially great about the middle row was improving the position of self-employed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u184	Mr President! I will continue to reflect on European economic policy and the future policy of the European Union. When we talk about the rules of the current Stability and Growth Pact for the euro area, then this year we will have to reflect on the future of the European Union as a whole, on the path of reform that the Union is taking. We know that it has a major impact on fiscal policy, on fiscal thinking. There have been various proposals, among other things, for a common budget for the euro area and for a common finance minister for the euro area. These questions are also very quickly before us. After all, Parliament has not had a debate on this side so far, but now that the alternatives to the road map were presented by the President of the Commission, can you say, there were five options for the development of the European Union. One option was one that is obviously the one that will end up here, and it is a Europe of cooperation that is deepening at a different pace. In other words, the countries of the Union can decide among themselves to go further in cooperation in a region, such as defence cooperation or economic policy cooperation in the euro area. And now I am going to this area of economic policy cooperation. In the autumn, then, we may already be in a situation — right after the German elections — that some of the countries of the Union and the euro countries are prepared to go further into economic policy cooperation than the provisions that have been in place so far. In addition to having this necessary debate on what has been decided in the debate on the framework, we should look a little further and a little higher, because our fate is, however, bound to the future of the euro area and of the European Union as a whole to the greatest extent: what kind of policy do we want to take if this kind of deepening
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u185	Mr President! It is quite true what Mr Heinäluoma said just now that it is certainly more fruitful than this debate to look a long way ahead and think about the opportunities and means of building an economy on a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable basis. However, I must say so now that when there are such accusations from the government parties that the opposition would not be pleased that the spending limits debate has now invested, for example, in education or early childhood education: yes, we are very pleased about it, we are not opposed to it. But what has been criticised here is the rhetoric that suggests that these would be some significant new investment when, in reality, the same targets were cut really drastically. Now more money was put in, and it is good that the government parties understood and corrected these mistakes for a small part. Similarly, it is very good that a guardian increase was finally received in the course of the study allowance. This is a long-awaited objective, and it is precisely an important structural change that we hope will continue to do so. But the truth is that more money was cut out of student aid, which is what this guardian raise is bringing. It's very nice that the guardian raise was brought in. It is to be hoped that in the future it will remain alongside student support and will not be removed from it by the governments that come to it, but the truth is that the cut that was made to study support was greater than the money these students will receive from this separation of care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u188	Mr President! Perhaps to this Europe, a few words, when it was quite right to go through the situation where we are now looking at these different EU cores and different options, how it is formed, so I would like to say that I too believe that there is a need to discuss these issues not only in the large committee, but also in the public arena, because these are big, big issues. And in this case, when we talk about fiscal policy today, it is, of course, about this economic cooperation, as mentioned here. At least I see for myself that this depth at a different rate is certainly, as Mr Heinäluoma said, the direction for the future. In this, of course, Finland must also think strongly about its own policies. It is no secret that I personally do not think it is very reasonable that we should go very deeply into economic cooperation with our joint finance ministers and others. So I do see things like this here. I think it has been a good thing in the first place to think about this line of the European Union in Finland, for example, with regard to these aids for Greece or others, that we have, however, been in our own tight line and have left the point that each of these debts is responsible for and so away from, I could say in this connection. These discussions were also held very strongly in public the other day, perhaps less often in this Chamber, but still. President! As far as today's political debate is concerned, what has been done here a little bit, I have to say now to worthy representatives of the government parties that please be so kind that we may be able to make this debate a little more constructive that please read it now, however. [ The speaker shows an alternative budget for the SDP] Perhaps that would be the starting point for you to know what the SDP represents. Here the SDP has put forward various concrete measures to promote exports, various concrete openings to promote entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u191	Mr President! Yes, the Government's acute mid-term resolution contains many very good investments and issues that promote exports and growth: for example, the increase of EUR 25 million per year in energy and climate action, or the increase of EUR 25 million in the circular economy for the top tourism project. Yes, they try to create the new growth and exports that the opposition has certainly spoken about here. That is why I am a little saddened by the fact that these up-to-date measures, which can, however, create thousands of new jobs, are also regarded as small ones. In my opinion, for example, it is not a very small way that those day care fees will fall again from low-income families and become a zero-payment category. What we have not yet talked about in this context is, however, a matter of concern about research, development and innovation, for example. With regard to the stakes, we have now finally made investments both through capitalisation and directly from the financial point of view. This concern has been felt both during the previous parliamentary term and in the current parliamentary term, and, of course, when cuts have been made, it was necessary for action to be taken there as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u194	Mr President! This is the problem in this current euro area economy, which, on the one hand, has a huge surplus in the economy of Germany and, on the other hand, in foreign trade, which will then help to offset the large deficits of the southern European countries in particular. Now Germany is in this special audit procedure because the German surpluses are so huge that they are a problem for the rest of the euro area when using a common currency. The Germans have been very reluctant to dismantle this, and they have drawn on such a very tight line, which has then meant that when the euro exchange rate has been very cheap for Germany, then their competitiveness has been strengthened and then, especially in southern European countries, competitiveness has been in major problems. It seems very difficult to make this coordination within the framework of the current rules, which could force a country, such as Germany, to spend more money, to encourage domestic demand and thus to create export opportunities for other countries, particularly in the euro area. This has been a difficult matter, and now it follows that our main issue this year will be what position we will take on this future development project for the European Union and, in particular, closer cooperation with the euro area. It will be a very big matter, and it is bad that this public debate on this issue has not yet been launched, because it would be necessary to prepare for this in time and to think about what is in our interests. Just as Mr Viitanen said there, we have had quite a broad political consensus that we do not want to have such a common fund
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u195	That is what is very important. However, Finland has been of the opinion that we want to avoid this solidarity of debt. I do not see any sense in the so-called 'beneficiary policy', that there is someone to get to, which then we all carry our money together and then together we respond. We know where it leads. In this way, I would also like to express my support for the continuation of this line as it has been. I think it is very well-founded. But as has been said again, that public debate should begin and take place as soon as possible. Mr President, I have just finished speaking on this alternative budget for the SDP. When reference was also made to these tax solutions in the previous section where we criticised our actions, I would say quite frankly that we have very good tax solutions inside. We would give the low- and middle-income people more tax relief, both for employees and pensioners. But then again, the high-income ones in our option would pay more. I believe that this is a very fair, fair and economic policy-wise policy. What I am concerned about when it comes to the models of the government parties: I would like to remind you once again of what we were very disappointed about last autumn when these tax solutions were made, that at the same time, as if it were told to pensioners that you are now also receiving tax reductions. Last time, the government betrayed the pensioners and made this famous tax differential. Now the tax gap was not corrected in itself, but tax reductions came. How'd it go? When we went to the information service door to knock and did the calculations, the result was that the purchasing power of low- and medium-income pensioners will fall this year. In the same way, for employees, purchasing power is very little positive for the low and middle incomes of this period, but then more rewarding for the high incomes. This tells us a lot about what we talked about earlier when we talked about spending limits and value choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u196	Mr President! I will continue this European debate a little more specifically for fiscal policy and the future of the euro area. After all, the Union has now decided that the December summit should seek solutions on this issue, which is the direction the Union will take. In the meantime, there will be Commission documents opening up the matter and, I think, in May there will be a paper on the options for developing future cooperation in the euro area. It is obvious that the real solutions to the European debate will not go before the German elections. We want to see, and the Germans themselves do not want to commit to anything until the elections have taken place, and then we see who in Germany exercises power and what the policy of the new government will be. I understand that there is no obstacle to elections like this, at least not now that the municipal elections have been held.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u199	Mr President! I took the floor because I thought that Mr Heinäluoma would at some point also like to draw together from the point of view of the Audit Committee. So let us discuss this Europe a little further, if you don't mind. In this connection, I would like to say that I think it is an excellent idea and a good idea, which has just come to light, that we will soon have a new Minister for Culture and Europe, who will certainly be enthusiastic. I think that perhaps even at this sitting and at the end of the debate in the Chamber — there are not a lot of representatives of the government parties here, but, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I hope that you will be able to take this word and hint at this debate from this point of view to the government, that you will be active in opening up this important debate to the Parliament, which should take place. Indeed, I would see that a new minister could very well set this situation in motion, so that we would then also be able to get to the public debate in this Chamber, and perhaps also to inspire and open up the citizens' debate on these matters to a greater extent than today. As far as I am concerned, I would also like to say in relation to this report by the Committee on Audit that it was in itself extremely important that we should already have this debate, because there are also very many objections to next week when we are dealing with this actual decision on the spending limits here in Parliament. I believe, however, that the essential thing that has been said here, which we should all bear in mind, is that we are united here, both in government and in opposition parties, all, in saying that these important objectives in terms of employment and debt will not be achieved in this situation. That is why it is an extremely important question of what is to be done from now on, what conclusions will be drawn from the ideas which have now been recorded here by the Committee on Finance and then by the Committee on Budgets, as well as by a large number of experts and the government itself. I've heard from the government myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u200	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Viita for her support for this European debate and also for the other representatives. This has not really started in this debate. I therefore wonder — given the importance of this issue and the fact that we have not yet approached this very much in committee’s work — whether this would be the subject and place for the future of this whole European Union and, in particular, the future of this economic cooperation in Parliament, for example, through a topical debate;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u203	Mr President! A little bit of pressure on the government parties to catch the catch, but this was actually a really good idea that we could also be present in Parliament ourselves in such a way that we would present and hold a topical debate. This is quite true, I have personally thought about it sometimes, that when this sort of Commission paper now exists, where these paths are different, so it is quite strange in itself that they have not been very spectacularly reviewed and analysed and other. Of course, those who follow will know a lot, but how much of this debate is now actually being held from the point of view of the ordinary people? Not much, and that is why it would be so good for us to become a little more active in Parliament overall. So with this speech I wanted to give full support to the idea that this topical and urgent debate should take place. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, for that small part, the Audit Committee has already considered and opened this up, and that is a good starting point. Of course, this is not a small matter and a detail, which is timely in this report, namely that we are somewhat in difficulty with these own obligations, but I think it was important, however, that the committee had been able to say that, in this situation, it is wise for us to comply with them. This was this detail, but, as Mr Heinäluoma said, this is a large, wide-ranging package, and it would certainly be a good idea for this topical debate to take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u204	Mr President! In case the debate begins to fade, and there may even be a threat here that there will be an end — at least I can see that the representatives of the government parties are no longer there — and I would like to thank all those who took part in the debate. It has been a pleasure to note that this work carried out by the Audit Committee has not really been called into question in any way, but that these findings of the Audit Committee have either been common or, at least, have not been criticised; that is a good sign. This is, however, an issue which is not very easy and very politically charged. I should also like to thank the members of the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-27-ps-44.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
