ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u2	Mr President! This is a proposal on which the Committee on Legal Affairs has been unanimous, and it is clear that, in criminal matters, among other things, we need greater European cooperation. It is of great importance in circumstances where it is international crime that has expanded and criminals know no state borders but operate across these borders. I therefore consider this proposal to be worth supporting in itself. In this context, however, I will be asking whether there is any other need for closer cooperation in this area of European cooperation. We know that the European Union is having a very important debate on its own future. This is coming in the next few months and when the EU summit in December comes important decisions on the future of European cooperation, so I would really like Parliament to be given the opportunity to take a serious look at the future of the EU in this regard, because it will be major issues of this year and how Finland places itself, what kind of future it is going to build, is an important issue. In other words, will this European cooperation go further than what we are talking about here, which is quite a small matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u3	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma raised a very important issue here, and the Committee on Legal Affairs held a careful discussion on the need and importance of this expanding cooperation and, as it were, on the basis of the reality of the impact it will have on Finland's security factors in the future. It is clear that this cooperation will increase. It is increasing in the whole area of justice, and then it is also increasing in the area of police administration, prosecution and so on, so that this is the case, that cooperation is expanding and intensifying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u4	Mr President! Of course, as Mr Heinäluoma expanded this debate a little further to European security and crime, it is worth noting that all in all crime is now more and more cross-border. This is happening, of course, around cybercrime, but also in the area of terrorism. Of course, I personally would like to see the question of how we could work more together on these issues, of course, in preventing these terrorist attacks, one is intelligence, but another is what has surprised me, that when one of these people is banned from entering, for example, because of terrorist links, they are not in common in the EU. For example, according to information at least publicly available, such persons may have been in Finland — and according to public information they have also been in Finland. I myself would like to see a common approach in these areas to prevent this radicalisation and the dissemination of its message. When one country imposes such restrictions, mainly on terrorism, they would, of course, apply to the EU as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u5	Madam President! It is very important that we can foster security both nationally and internationally, and the threats that the world has to face today are, of course, worrying. We can talk, indeed, about terrorist threats as well as cyber threats. The world has changed, the security environment has changed, and it obviously also requires international cooperation and overall development. I think it was very good to see that cooperation between the European Union is now developing in many areas and in many dimensions. Various documents have been published, and there is also a strong debate in the European Union about the different cores and how the European Union as a whole will evolve. Yesterday we raised this issue in such a way that we talked about economic issues, about economic convergence, what the prospects are for the future. There are big plans for, among other things, a common fiscal policy, Emu's deepening and something like this. We also talked about this situation in Greece, which was timely. Now, last night, a compromise has been reached. We then asked here about the possibility that we should be able to talk about these issues here in Parliament too, about these European issues, about cooperation in all areas, including in this Chamber in public. Our problem, after all, is that this debate often remains in a large committee, which in itself is a good thing that Parliament has such an opportunity there to make a strong statement on the European Union's affairs, but also that citizens have the right to hold this debate and to know what is going on. For example, now that this Greece has arrived, we have some information in public about what has happened there, but, for example, from the perspective of the future: is it the case that the government's line is to accept debt relief? It's a really big deal. That is why, President, in this context, when we talk about European security, about European cooperation overall, I would like to stress that I would insist that the government should, in some way, introduce this European cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u7	Madam President! The nature of serious cross-border crime has changed. It is increasingly targeting information networks or making use of information networks and, at the same time, we are living in a situation where the role of European police cooperation is being tested by Brexit. It is still unclear how this police cooperation will be organised in the future. It is very important for the small EU countries that common information is collected and shared information can also be used, and that is why, from the Finnish perspective, it is important for Britain, when Brexit is implemented, to be able to engage in police cooperation, because Britain is, in any case, a major intelligence power in Europe. Cooperation between the authorities will also be facilitated if the powers of the authorities are as similar as possible, and in this respect this topical issue of telecommunications control and intelligence legislation needs to be raised. We are currently very dependent on the powers of the so-called friendly countries, foreign states, the authorities, which go beyond the borders of Finland, but the powers of our own authorities do not extend there, and here we in Parliament have a great responsibility that we take care of this matter when the government has submitted its legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u8	Madam President! Europeanism is currently being tested through both terrorism and the expansion of international crime. The citizens are genuinely feeling insecure, and this feeling of insecurity in our Parliament is, of course, the first response to our authorities, but also the political perspective and the political field must also be brought together through this European security perspective. I also support this view of Mr Heinäluoto that, when Finland is a republic, Parliament is discussing European policy, so this security policy in the European context would also be more prominent in this Chamber. After all, at the moment, Finland is perhaps more driven from a piece of a different European policy, including its security policy, by the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office and by joining in. In the Committee on Administration itself, working for the sixth year now, I have noticed that Europe is developing, one can say, its natural path in border security matters, but we still have a lot to do in the fight against crime in the European field, and this, of course, involves the various forms of crime and, in particular, serious terrorism, international crime, drug trafficking and the like. In the Republic, too, this European vision should be brought together across the boundaries of the various committees and, of course, in the pursuit of a common good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u9	Mr President! As I said, I appreciate the fact that this proposal is unanimous. This is one example of sensible, intensified cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. It will then also involve accepting the needs of other Member States, i.e. taking account of their views and working together on legal matters, and also the possibility of using certain coercive measures. But all right, this is unanimous. Then I shall remain in the second section: the concern that comes from the spring debate and also from the debate of the last few days and weeks. When we also have a lot of speeches which assume that we are not in European cooperation, I shall now ask whether this consensus on this issue is real, that is to say that everyone has found that such a proposal is on the table. Is it really the case that all the representatives have seen that this is sensible and that this European cooperation in the field of justice is being pursued? How would this happen in circumstances where we would be outside the European Union, as has been said? It is also a question which must be raised in connection with these concrete projects in order to make it visible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u10	Mr President! The judicial and security authorities of Finland and the EU have been working very well together for a long time. After all, Europol, Eurojust, Olaf and, in part, Interpol have been the umbrella organisations, and here comes the EPPO. In addition, there is a great deal of bilateral cooperation between national authorities. In fact, this government proposal on investigation orders, which has now been discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, is not so revolutionary for Finland. This replaces legal aid legislation and this investigation order legislation is based on a directive that is binding on Finland. So it is a good thing that our report in the Committee on Legal Affairs was unanimous, and that is the way it should be. But the Committee on Legal Affairs was concerned about a few things. One was that this is followed by such mixed procedures, i.e. it is very difficult for a legal person to apply in certain situations. But this is a challenge that is evident there in our report. The second thing that was not a very good solution for Finland is that the police should have the prosecutor's confirmation of the investigation order. It has such a top challenge and a problem that prosecutors do not have 24/7 on-call systems. This is an easy thing to do, then, if there is a long-term case that has already been ordered by the prosecutor, but in emergency situations when a serious crime occurs during the weekend or evening and night and you have to make an urgent request for legal aid, now you have to look for the prosecutor and get his signature on this matter. The Committee on Legal Affairs has expressed concerns about this in its report, including the need for prosecutors to set up a 24-hour on-call system. But all in all, this is a good starting point. There are some flaws in this, but this is acceptable, unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u11	Mr President! As many have said here, this proposal is good and underlines the importance of European cooperation also in the fight against crime, which is of course part of a broad area of security, which is precisely the strength of the European Union, very similar to the issues of common border control which have been discussed here in the past and where Frontex has gained more opportunities and powers. If you look at the rear-view mirror how, for example, this 2015 refugee crisis could have been handled in the best possible way, then it would have been precisely then that European cooperation in the fight against crime at the external border would have been needed, so that cases that are now causing problems within Europe by terrorist activity or crime could be eliminated. Cooperation is very important. I would have taken one example. When I also believe in a common European basis of values, we may find ourselves in new difficulties in some areas. I followed the adoption of new Hungarian legislation, which penalised the financing of NGOs from abroad. You can imagine when there are cases of public authorities against non-governmental actors — perhaps they are in other European countries — in what way requests for office will be made. I can't even imagine it. However, we must always maintain a healthy, human rights-based vision in our own actions and look through these cases carefully, because unfortunately we also have national legislation within the European Union which we ourselves can say does not meet the human rights or civil liberties criteria for which European legislation has actually been created.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u12	Madam President! One thing was also discussed here, and it was information security in a constantly growing exchange of information. We should carefully discuss how far we are prepared to go in breaking privacy and also how data protection can be maintained in an increasingly extensive electronic exchange of information. Is it perhaps time to introduce a fully closed network with no traffic other than safety-related information? You could call it a playful 10G network. What is essential here is that this amount, which is being distributed, is constantly growing on that network, how it is possible to secure the information that is moving there that relates to the privacy of citizens and then to national security and the security within Europe as a whole. This should be the subject of a broad debate in Parliament on how far we are prepared to go in breaking privacy in the name of security, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u13	Madam President! It is true that European cooperation in criminal investigations is perhaps more up-to-date than ever before, and this changed world, the digitalized world, offers opportunities, perhaps even threats. In my former life, I was a member of the Europol Audit Committee for three years, even as chairman of one year, and then I was able to follow that very important work. Since then, Europol has become an EU agency, which is what it is at the moment. Now I'm gonna stay here and see if the Brexes are causing any trouble. Of course, we will be left with Interpol cooperation, but here too this issue will certainly arise. President! We in this Parliament just recently talked about foreign policy and European policy, not very focused, but European issues were here in the debate. But it is obvious that there is a need now, as the EU develops and lives in this kind of focused debate, also here in the big hall, probably already next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, there are three speeches for the moment, but I would nevertheless remind you that at 1.30 p.m. a large committee is waiting for its turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u15	Mr President! This raised, among other things, the pending intelligence law. I would also like to stress that, of course, it must bring about an appropriate package such as that which recognises today's security needs, but also takes a very close look at the scope of privacy. I just think that in a wise way we need to be able to reconcile all in all, and that will certainly require a lot of work and thinking and getting to grips with things. President! Once again, this particular kind of monotony. It is true, I think that this too has well demonstrated the importance of European cooperation, particularly in the fight against crime, for example. And since that is the case, of course, the question raised by Mr Heinäluoma is still quite relevant, namely whether we agree at all that we should be part of the European Union. It goes without saying to me that I want to belong to the European Union. But today's debate politically when you follow it here in Parliament too, it may not always seem very clear. Various possibilities have been flashed as to whether Finland should, at some point, even hold referendums on and so away from the euro. For example, in this Chamber, in the debate mentioned above, to which Mr Ala-Nissilä referred, we were already amazed at the statements made by the recent European Minister in the European Union, where the first meeting was already taking place to shed light on the possible euro difference between Finland, which, of course, I do not think is appropriate, because we are also being followed internationally and these speeches are being interpreted. That is why, President, I still have that idea. It is a good thing that Mr Ala-Nissila said that we could come back to this issue in the autumn, and it is certainly necessary, because the debate was very brief with one minute's speeches, and not everyone there was able to say everything yet, so that we should return to this issue. I hope that, as soon as possible, the new Minister for European Affairs — he is still a new Minister — will:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u17	Madam President! The resolution of problems of a cross-border nature really also needs those cross-border means and common rules of play, and I believe that the fight against and investigating this type of crime is precisely the kind of crime in which the European Union and these joint actions are needed. Here the chairman of the Legal Committee referred to the problem that, according to the arguments put forward by this government’s proposal, the main rule is that the order of inquiry is confirmed by the prosecutor appointed to the criminal case under investigation. Indeed, this can lead to a situation of urgency in which the prosecutor appointed for a criminal case is not always in reach,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u20	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen paid a great deal of attention to the protection of privacy in the exchange of information between the European police and security authorities. Indeed, when the information systems of these different authorities are not compatible in both technical and information management processes, it is very easy to reduce data protection at the border. The closed network of authorities proposed by the representative for Europe is an attractive idea in itself, but unfortunately it would not last very long. It would grow old very quickly and, at the same time, the means of cyber criminals, for example, would not become obsolete. It'll be vulnerable in a few years. There are also completely secure solutions for the processing of personal data on the open network — we have a good example of how the Estonian gateway works — but that means that we should be able to agree not only between the European security authorities and other authorities on these data management standards and data definition standards but also on operational data security practices. It is a big job, but it has to be started, and Finland, for example, could take initiative in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-16-ps-71.u21	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Plant. In fact, I threw a bat at him here, as it were, because I was hoping that he, as an expert, would comment and confirm, and that is probably what he said. But this could be Finland’s special expertise in good use, as the representative of the plant said.
