ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 6 June 2017. In the debate, Anna Kontula, supported by Matti Sem, has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 9/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I very much wonder what the problem was with the current Postal Act, which says that there must be a universal postal service available on equal terms throughout the country, and that letters must be collected and distributed at least once a day on five working days a week, and that at most 95% of the deliveries must be made available on the second working day and at least 98% on the third working day at the latest. This current law would still have been quite useful and should have been better monitored by FICORA in order to ensure that Posti had complied with it in its most staff-saving state of affairs. Mr President! Well, now Posti has been powerfully lobbying his own cause to reduce the staff by several thousand and make the savings he wants, and our government parties have now joined this rally and are changing the postal law. In accordance with the spirit of the post office management. The fact is that more than 2 billion shipments were distributed last year. Basic postal activities have been profitable every year at the current service level and produced tens of millions of euros each year for Posti. Revenues have been distributed in dividends to the owner, i.e. the State, for EUR 60 million this year. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u8	Mr President! Mr Taavitsainen's speech was correct in that it referred to the transport of horse mail. Everything else was either your own text or a text written by PAU, which deserves its own assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u11	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to make a response to the speeches that have been made here to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u12	Mr President! The previous speaker said that what I was speaking here would have been only a historical part of what is right. But all those things I told you are from that legal text. In other words, citizens are divided into two castes, citizens are unequaled according to whether or not they live in the business area. So I ask you: do you think that the right basis for legislation is whether or not a citizen lives in a business area? And those things I've listed about how much the mail slows down. So it will be a week before the small packages and letters arrive — a week! So let's go back to the 17th century. Do you think this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u13	Reply, chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u14	Mr President! As you can already see from the debate, there has sometimes been a colorful debate in committee on the situation in the postal sector. The starting point, however, has been to safeguard the services of citizens and the functioning of the mail. And as representative Rossi said, this is not the law for Posti Oy, but the postal law. So now the field of action is expanding, and it must also be understood to look at the big picture. One thing that has been very much discussed is the register of addresses and its management and the associated bans on the transfer of addresses. This should continue to be the subject of attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u15	Mr President! That's right, Congressman. In Tavitsainen’s speech, this is a law of inequality and a law that undermines quality. Equality for people living in different parts of Finland is in question here. This law is certainly not only made for Posti Oy, because there are very special features of this law, such as forced competition. It does give rise to a special situation that Posti has to tender its own services every year and thus play a strange role as the organiser of the competition and as a participant. The transfer of address registers is a cause for concern, because anyone can use the notification to become a post office and request those address registers also for secret addresses. This is indeed worrying that this has not been made more secure by legislation guaranteeing information security and the legal protection of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u16	Mr President! People's service behavior is changing. The decline in newspaper and letter mail has been constant at around 10% per year and in terms of money, between EUR 50 and 70 million. Digitality has changed and changed this behavior all the time. I want to put this postal law in the right perspective, President. The universal service obligation therefore concerns the flexibility of the letter speed and concerns stamp letters and postcards, as well as small packages, with a volume of only 5% of all postal products to be distributed. Thus, three-day distribution does not apply to letters, hospital letters, bills, advertisements, newspapers or the distribution of magazines sent by companies or authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u17	Mr President! My question, too, is about this Postal Address Register, which is how it is now. The mail is forced to hand over its address register to other companies, and this is a serious threat to the privacy of Finns when the address information is transferred from one registry to another. At the same time, the addresses subject to a data security ban or kept secret will not be transferred, but will only be known to the Population Register Centre. I would like to ask the Minister: is it not true that this is a game of gambling that is far too dangerous when the addresses of people who are banned from security are moved from one place to another? On the other hand, the question arises when, in practice, this forced competition in sparsely populated areas results in a state-owned company, Posti, once a year, being able to compete in letter distribution and taking part in these competitions itself: why can't we continue, as is the case now, so that Posti can buy subcontracting services from local transport companies as it has been so far?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u18	Mr President! I have to say that I have been surprised by the fact that this proposal for a law has actually been passed without change here in Parliament. I thought that, experientially, MPs value Post’s basic service and that it is equally available throughout the country. There was a lot of talk in the past about the fact that we are all committed to the need for basic services to reach the countryside and that it is an important part of our having the whole country inhabited and, from that point of view, we can be proud of Finland. A special line is now being chosen in which it is a matter of pride that the cities — it has been said that it is in the cities themselves — are being undermined by postal services. I find it difficult to see that this could be a success strategy for any country. Yes, people, whether they live in the countryside or in the city, deserve the same contribution, the same service. I am still surprised that this committee report was not presented. A matter of such importance should be properly presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u19	Before the first speech was made, there was a window of time for the presentation of the matter. It did not happen, it was not requested and it was therefore not done in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u20	Mr President! It is precisely this opening-up of the address registration system that has left me the most concerned here. I tried to read that committee report and, if I have understood correctly, it is obviously not possible to pass on the address records classified by the authorities at the Population Register Centre, but on the other hand The post office itself does not have information about these security classifications, and if, for any other reason, the person has prohibited the release of his or her personal address register data, these extradition prohibitions are not in any way valid. In other words, at the time when someone wants to become a postal operator in Finland, the company has the right to have access to these address records even under the transfer ban, but not those classified by the authorities. I would have asked the Minister if I understood this correctly. In any case, this disclosure of information subject to the extradition ban is also quite worrying. Do the public know that this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u21	Two more three replies and then three minutes to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u22	Mr President! With this new law, the majority of Finns will not see any difference in the current situation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u25	At this stage, I will give the floor to Mr Myllykoski and Mr Taimela and Mr Ross, who has begun this debate, and then to the Minister. After that, we'll continue our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u26	Mr President! Thank you for the promise and for fulfilling that promise. I must say that, according to the parliamentary dignity of this Parliament, it was good that the representative of the government party was given the floor before the start of the debate, and I appreciate that. Tavitsainen was actually talking about much more than just history, and it should be seen in this whole picture. There is no point in underestimating what this legislation brings. But, in particular, I would have asked the Minister whether, in connection with the preparation of this law, consideration was being given to the fact that we have companies billing people in a certain timeline. However, we have dozens and tens and tens of thousands of people in this country who have not entered the digital age. It has certainly been done in the north, in the area of Eeva-Maria Maijala, that there is no more letter mail. Was it considered whether, at the same time, the time limits for invoicing should have been extended so as not to put people in an unequal position that is covered by the billing of letters?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u27	Mr President! Unfortunately, this proposal, which is called a reform of the government postal law, will further speed up the downward trend in postal services, even though someone else is saying something else in this Chamber today. Citizens are placed in unequal positions on the basis of their place of residence, and the government's employment objectives are also hit hard by this reform, because thousands of Posti workers are going to be unemployed. When distribution dates are reduced in some parts of Finland, the directive is also ready to deviate within the government framework. I personally feel that the mail must be collected and distributed five days a week throughout Finland, and for what? Just because citizens are equal. It is also surprising when Posti is obliged to share the address information free of charge with its competitors. So the state company is being forced into the market with the ball on its feet, in its own leg. How could the Minister of Ownership have accepted this? The big question mark in the future is also the security of delivery of mail. If there are many different subcontractors after the tendering process, how to manage the security of distribution here
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u28	One last comment, Mr Rossi, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u29	Mr President! I asked Mr Kymäläinen and Mr Heinäluoma for this reply on the basis of what they said when they said that there is now a difference between the citizens and the citizens. I mean, seriously, we're on the same page here. [Right : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u30	And now for the minister, here are so many questions, five minutes from the can.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u31	Mr President! The change in the postal market is currently staggering with the effects of the electrification of services and digitalisation. Distribution volumes have already decreased to the level of the 1960s and the distribution volumes of newspapers have decreased to the level of the 1950s. This is not about legislation, competition in the EU postal market, Posti Oy or postal distributors, but about changing the way in which citizens operate. Instead of letters of paper, communication is done electronically and the magazines are read online. In practice, we have a question about the fact that, at the moment, mail is being delivered in cities seven days a week. We currently have about 14 distributions in the cities in the regions. In sparsely populated areas, we can only reach five distribution times a week in some places. And now the question is that the Postal Act seeks to ensure a minimum level and to ensure that the burden on Posti can be reduced with regard to the universal service obligation, where volumes fall by 10% a year, and which actually accounts for 5% of the total volume of mail, but which nevertheless puts Post in an unequal position. On average, the citizen gets one of these within a week, and it can be ensured that the speed of rotation can be slower in this respect. This means that this aims to meet the challenges of Posti. But at the same time as there is distribution in cities seven days a week, efforts are being made to ensure that this is also done in sparsely populated areas, but a separate obligation is required. This means that cities do not need to secure this distribution by means of separate competitive tendering requirements, but instead this must be done in sparsely populated areas in order to maintain the five-day distribution there. This is precisely an attempt to ensure that the entire country retains five-day distribution, which is what brings equality. In fact, this same question was raised by the previous PAU President in 2014 and stated at that time that the State should ensure that distribution is also provided as a purchasing service. The second aspect here is that it is also intended to ensure that the postal bill has been widely evaluated and that the proposal was also evaluated by the Legislative Review Council and, according to the Council's assessment, the employment impact of the proposal has been adequately analysed, although it was also stated that quantitative estimates of the employment impact should be presented where possible. Efforts have been made to ensure that distribution services are secured throughout the country and thus to ensure that employment is also created in the context of sparsely populated areas. We have put forward a change in the pricing of the address register so that the cost-equivalent pricing of the address data would shift from the cost-related pricing of the address data to the disclosure of the address data by removal costs. This is aimed specifically at ensuring that everyone has up-to-date address information, which also improves the quality of postal services in postal companies, and that transmissions find more high-quality recipients. Here, too, an attempt has been made to leave the interests of the people. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not see any data protection challenges in the proposal. No one can obtain the address registration data of Posti Oy, but only postal companies that carry out postal operations in relation to letters are entitled to this information. That is already the case. This is not a new issue in this law, but is already the case at the moment. The postal undertaking is subject to different obligations regarding liability, secrecy and the secret of a confidential message. That is what needs to be done at the moment. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u32	All right, let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u33	Mr President! You, Minister Berner, and the good government, have indeed reached a rather significant historic decision. During the last term of the government, special care was taken to ensure that the five-day delivery of mail would be maintained. But you are not going around this directive simply because you give up the distribution of five days.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u34	Madam President! In fact, this debate raises the question of whether the postal services are working well enough today. In my opinion, they do not work at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u37	Mr President! The main problem here is precisely that the level of service is falling. It may be that in the future more than half of the letters will not be allowed until the fifth day, can in practice skip over a whole week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u40	Mr President! So let's get this straight. When we talk about letters, it's just postmarked, and in its most typical way, it's a Christmas card that we can send out from this house, too. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u41	Mr President! Yes, it is important to remind the regional representatives of the city centre that naivety is not an idea. The history of the city centre is very shameful when it comes to the handling of postal laws in Parliament. During Matti Vanhanen's government, when the word "service" was dropped from the postal service, things got out of hand. At that time, under Vanhanen’s second government, no backboard was put in place that would secure the future of Posti and the postal services, and now the harvest is reaped. For example, many local newspapers and small entrepreneurs who report in local newspapers have found themselves in a very difficult situation when, at the best times of the market, Posti has refused to change or even maintain the pace of distribution in such a way that it would have been the best for these local newspapers, which may be the only public information channel not only for television and radio, but also for the local authorities, and has then completely forgotten them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u42	Mr President! Me and Mustajärvi live in the same locality, but we can see this in this postal law. [Markus Black Lake interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u43	Mr President! I have been thinking a lot about why this mail flow is so important, but it is because we in rural areas have closed down shops, we have schools closed down, the banks have gone, so it has been felt that this basic service such as mail is the service that needs to be secured equally for all in the country. Even in the opposition, we are aware of the decline in the number of mail, but it cannot be the only way to try to get rid of it by reducing the level of services. Here we go, Congressman Ross, two-class citizens. When Mrs Maijala In Savukoski, five days of distribution per week, and in the future, the residents of Rovaniemi — Mr Salmon from the same party — will be distributed to him only three days a week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u46	Madam President! I'm a little confused about this mail conversation. At the moment, however, we are in a world that is changing at an accelerating pace. I myself am responsible for this current situation in Posti. Here I read the main paper of our electronic province, not the paper paper, but the electronic paper, I have electronic bills, and many other things have changed at a dramatic pace. As we have heard in many speeches, the situation is changing all the time and the new law that is being discussed guarantees that it will also be distributed in rural areas. There's no such thing as this market competition. We ourselves have chosen an open market economy in which we live. We can't go back to the time when the steam locomotives were running and in the 17th century the horse was driven. That world is gone. We have to live in this time, and this law allows these services to be maintained and extended: the mail can come with goods and many other things. This is where we are moving forward. The world is changing. There's nothing we can do about it. If we're going to get a little buttery and cryy, it's not going to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u47	Madam President! The digital age is the future, and this was also referred to in this speech, among other things, by reading e-mails and printouts and so on. However, there are half a million households in Finland that do not have a network connection either because of their location or because of economic reasons it is not possible to maintain or even do not have digital skills. The machine never replaces the physical service, and the performance reduces more than promotes digitalisation. The tower asked what methods. At the moment, the problems are caused by the fact that there are too many operators and people do not know who brought the mail, and that is why mail disappears and so away. The answer to this problem is certainly not that more players are involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u49	Mr President! Now we need to remember what we are actually talking about when we talk about this amendment of the law. When you think about what's going on in the mailbox and think about what 5% of it is, we're talking about the 5%. 95% of the goods entering the mailbox are commercial, commercial, and we are only talking about the 5% proportion that is really small.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u52	Mr President! Of course, when you are a layman and you have not had access to all this in committee, you get a little confused. If I understand correctly, it is said on the part of the government that nothing is deteriorating, and then, on the other hand, it has been mentioned here with concrete examples that the minimum service obligation is clearly weakening, so that the question remains — neither of us can be right here, i.e. either is wrong now — that either Parliament is adopting weaker obligations to deliver mail to the citizens or not. I would therefore like the representatives of the opening speeches to be able to answer this basic question, whether this law will make it possible for mail to be distributed less frequently in Finland in the future. The second point is whether Posti has served well or badly. It is true that in Helsinki for the first time in the last year there have been numerous complaints about Posti's services. There's no mail anywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u55	Mr President! Congressman Lindtman brought up the Defence Forces' mail service. All this and letters from the authorities, advance votes in elections and so on, are covered by contractual mail which is not subject to universal service obligations. We are talking about the 5%, that is, the stamp letter mail that we send to each other. This is the minimum level. So the point is that each post office address would be used on every business day per week at a minimum level. The maximum may be something completely different, in different parts of Finland when we live. But we want to guarantee this minimum level for every Finnish citizen. In my opinion, the postal service is a universal service or, in other words, a service that must be available to all Finns on an equal basis. The Minister has raised the issue of the law on transport services. This now makes it possible to bring different services to the home door and to every Finnish citizen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u56	Madam President! Uncertainty is added to this law by the possibility for postal companies to terminate their services by notifying their customers and FICORA of the change at two weeks' notice. In practice, therefore, citizens' services can change quite quickly. The same uncertainty will apply to Posti's staff as well as to distribution companies' staff. The question, then, is whether a high-quality postal service can be built on such an uncertain basis in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u57	Mr Rossi and Mr Viitanen and then the Minister have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u58	Mr President! I have to ask the SDP: would you like to put a stop to the newspapers in the countryside?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u62	Madam President! When the question was asked whether it worked well, I also share the experience that many times citizens have been concerned about postal services today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u65	Secretary Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u66	Madam President! This reform of the Postal Act has gone through two stages. First, an evaluation note was made, which was sent to a wide consultation where both people and different actors were allowed to comment on what they expected from the postal services. And the feedback was very clear: we want five days of distribution, we want today's newspaper to be delivered in time, we are ready to wait for letter mail, that is to say, postal mail. And from these points of view, this law has been built. Now it is also worth remembering and understanding that the Postal Act does not regulate all postal activities. It regulates only and only the postal correspondence of citizens, which is the only goods subject to universal service obligations,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, let us take one last round of replies. Then let's move on with that list of speakers. I would now like to ask those who still wish to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u71	Mr President! All of us in the Committee on Transport and Communications know from these expert consultations that all these contractual correspondences, insurance companies, Kela, municipalities, all these, have gone along with the speed of its universal service obligation in the same rhythm, there are no separate two systems there, but they go along with it. And now that this universal service obligation is being seriously slowed down, and now that I am putting it in the mail, it will be there tomorrow, but after a week of this law, it will slow the whole system down. Everything's gonna slow down. I'm very surprised they're trying to turn black into white.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u72	Mr President! I would now like to ask the Minister quite frankly how it is now, who does not understand the written text, if it is said here that the speed of travel can be slowed down so that the letters can go in their direction for a week and the mail would be distributed in the city only three days a week. Somebody's reading this wrong. What, then, will happen, for example, to letters from hospitals or to public authorities requiring answers, such as letters from the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Are they part of a system that brings them so quickly that people’s answers are not late, or is it the case that people do not reach the hospital or laboratory at the time they are given the time? These are the key issues. In addition to how much have you estimated that this will reduce the staff of the Post? Postal staff seem to be very concerned about this, and when forced competition is required, staff are concerned about their job every year or two. I don't think that's quite fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u73	Mr President! Once again: this is a letter mail subject to universal service obligations, which is therefore a stamp, which is the most typical Christmas card. You may ask yourself this, since you have received such a letter the last time, which has nothing to do with your work, for example, from a relative. There are relatively few of them. So this has nothing to do with bills or so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u76	Mr President! Representative From Tavitsainen I would simply ask him to familiarise himself with Posti Oy's activities, what it is like in practice, because we as members of the Board of Directors should know more or less what it means to operate in accordance with agreements. In other words, according to the contracts, the products are distributed on certain dates at a certain service speed, exactly as agreed, and whether it is Posti Oy or whether it is ten other companies that manage these distribution issues, everyone acts according to the contracts. Each company has the choice of a postal delivery company that delivers it in the fastest, most reliable and best way, just as this company needs it. In other words, we are not able to define that such a certain postal service must be handled at a certain speed, but by competition, the market will handle it, who will handle it most definitely. Through this law, we will ensure that it can be implemented everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u77	Mr President! Indeed, laws can be passed here in Parliament — and that is what is being done here — to influence that speed when we talk about these stamps. But what's interesting is that now we're trying to make these savings. In the case of a limited company, postal consignments are subject to the speed of distribution of newspapers. This employment impact is very sad because the PAU estimates that this law will reduce between 2500 and 3,000 jobs in Posti. Even those who remain in the Post will live and work under constant pressure, because this service will be reopened every year. There is also a universal service quality standard here in the legal text, and you are, of course, seriously undermining it under the EU directive, where 50% of transmissions should be on the third day and 97% on the fifth day. You're gonna make this happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u78	Mr President! The Postal Act ensures that postal services and distribution are maintained throughout the country and available to all Finns. However, it is a fact of life in this government proposal, in this legislative amendment. When we talk about whether this is Posti Oyj's law or the postal law, I do see that this is the law of postal services and the law of postal distribution. And what Posti Corporation himself says: it says that streamlining regulation, that is, this government proposal, contributes to the goal that universal service can be maintained throughout the country without public support. As far as I am concerned, it is important that we can maintain this without public support. Having listened to the speeches made by the SDP in this regard, I am very surprised that, during the last parliamentary term, Mr Paatero, the then Minister, also felt that the Post and the postal services should be reformed. I would have liked to have heard from you in this debate what would be your solution to this problem, that the postal services are not playing full-time at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u79	Madam President! I'm terrified of the way Posti's been put in a storm. I would have thought that postal services were in safe hands because both Minister of Communications Berner and Minister of Ownership Management Lintilä is a city centre, but I must say that the model of key ministers in the centre is untenable. The post office has wanted this service to be live in the last parliamentary term. It was blocked by then's Communications Minister Kiuru. Now you are slipping away from this directive, which obliges five days of distribution, and you do not care about these effects on employment. With this bill, between 2500 and 3,000 people will be unemployed. In other words, I must say that this is where all kinds of cars and men come to share these letters that disappear through the notification procedure. They disappear because people are confused. They don't know who's gonna give them that mail. They're trying to offer it to the Post for distribution, but it's someone else's. So that's why those letters go away. In other words, more competition and more players, and then in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u80	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä is quite right in this respect that there are very many of these, it is almost a thousand letters weekly, distributed by other distribution companies and they come on top of the Post, as it were. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] When Mr Tolppanen asked quite a good question here about how these others go then, such as letters from the authorities, business letters, bills, postal packages, they are not regulated by this postal law. This is also worth noting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u82	Madam President! Clearly, this is an emotional issue. It seems to me that the argument here is that the old is better than the new and that things should not be reformed, even though the facts also argue that the situation in the delivery of mail and the sending of mail has really changed from what it has been, for example, five years ago. The change has been very rapid. Society must also be prepared for such a change by making it possible for operators to operate in that environment. In particular, Mr Heinäluoma’s point of view remained in mind. He himself said that he was not familiar with the committee's report and yet here he was strongly arguing against this proposal. This really is worth reading. It goes on to say: 'If there were less than three delivery days a week, it would not be possible to put this speed into practice on every business day because of the collection obligation. Thus, for example, distribution once or twice a week is not possible
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u83	Before moving to the list of speakers, I would like to make a final reply, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u84	Mr President! Indeed, this talk seems to be a risky form of information. When the distance is ten meters, the message changes along the way. Perhaps it would be better if it were in written form.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u92	Mr President! Thank you in particular to the opposition for these speeches which have enabled us to intervene in all the problematic issues. Yes, I have at least the feeling that a certain feeling can be used to take things forward in these patterns. But now I would like to ask how the opposition really is going to deal with these matters in the future, because we are really trying to ensure that we can continue to ensure equal services throughout Finland. You'd like to stay in the present.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u97	Värderade fru talman! Tack för en god debatt här och också till ministern som är på plats och deltar i debatten och hör talturerna. Bagrunden till lagförslaget har att göra med att postutdelningen minskar rätt dramatiskt. Postens omsättning sjunker snabbt effectsom det skickas allt mindre brevpost. Postvolymerna minskar med 10 percent per år, Vilket gör att kostnaden per brev eller julkort som ska delas ut ökar. Finland är inte senmt om den ox utvecklingen. Under the escalator welnder har moss utveckling och i Danmark gjordes ylgen en större reform. Digitaliseringen ger valdigt många öjligheter för samhället, och jag tror att många finländare skulle ha svårt att leva utan dagens mobilelefoner som möjliggör sociala medier, snabb communication och e-post. Samtidigt är det just det arv som är det problemmatiska för traditionell postutdelning. Då allt mer communication görs elektroniskt så sker det på bekostnad av den traditionella postutdelningen. Att något måste goras är därför klart. Samtidigt är det viktigt då ändringar görs, att det då görs med omsorg och att man då ser till alla medborgares jämställda grundrättigheter. Det är inte helt enkelt, men lagförslaget gör ett försök till det. Det är är något utskottet också betonar i sitt betankande när utskottet undertryker att posttjänsterna utgör bassservice och menar att de måste tillhandahållas Jämlikt i hela landet. Det är därför av högsta vikt att följderna av lagen bevakas noggrant och att det vid behov görs nödvändiga ändringar. Även om distributionen av dagstidningar rent juridiskt är är är det viktigt att samhället ser till att dagstidningstributionen fungerar i practicen. Det handlar om upplysning, allmänbildning och att alla i Finland han henga med i samhällsdebatten oavsett ålder eller bostadsort. Det gör man i practicen med det ox förslaget. För precis som det sagts arv tidigare i salen har digitaliseringen inte nått alla finländare, i synnerhet de som hör till äldre generator. Postdistributionens infrastruktur för dagstidningarnas utdelning är också viktigt generalellt. I tider av så kallade alternativa fact och där falska nyheter regelbundet sprids via sociala medier är till reddingnellt framstalda dagstidningar av fundamental vikt. Tillgången till en dagstidning brukar räknas som en democracytisk grundrättighet. För egen del berör min största oro hushåll i svårtilligängängliga områden, bland you give us the hushåll i skärgården och i Lappland. Rätten till undantag för utdelningsfrekvens i svårtilligängliga områden kommer med lagen att höjas från 300 hushåll i dag till 1000 hushåll i framtiden. Dossutom stryks i den nya lagen hevisningen till vägar som trafikeras året om samt till landsvägsfäror, något jag är kritisk till effectsom det inte i dagsläget är vöjligt att avgöra viika consekvenser det kommer att få i practiceken. Det är Kommunikationsverket som i practicekken kommer att avgöra vilka de auri hushållen är i framtiden och som får i ansvar att årligen göra en bedömning av dessa hushåll. Det är dock viktigt att vi från politiskt håll betonar alla finländares rätt att få sin post, också om man bor på ett mer svårtilligängligt område, exempelvis i skärgården. Den ox saken oroar mig och den svenska riksdagsgruppen, och det är därför viktigt att man följer med utvecklingen som den nya lagen kommer att få också i practiceken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u98	Mr President! The postal code must now be reformed, and for what? There has been a lot of talk here today about the world changing, time changing, digitality being here to stay in Finland and the world, and electronic communications taking ever bigger steps forward. The Postal Act ensures that postal services and distribution are maintained throughout the country and available to all Finns. The aim of the reform is to change postal regulation to better reflect the changed operating environment. The postal market has been undergoing a major transformation as electronic communications become digital. As a result, the delivery volume of mail has fallen to the level of the 1960s. For example, the fall in letter and newspaper volumes has continued at around 10% per year, and in terms of money this amounts to between EUR 50 and 70 million. Digitalisation and changes in consumer behaviour have affected volumes of letter mail since the early 2000s, and the pace of change has accelerated even further in the 2010s. So we must also do something legislatively — and now even at the level of deregulation. Some 90% of the letters delivered by the mail are sent by companies and public authorities. When public administration and large companies and their customers have reduced letter mail due to digitalisation, the impact on letter volumes has been significant and growing. It should also be noted that an electronic mailbox system is under way in which the e-mails of the authorities would enter the e-mail box of each of us. This is still in preparation, but this is where we are going all the time. Mr President! What, then, is going to change in the reform? We can now apply the EU Postal Directive, which reduces the speed standard. Thus, a deviation from the five-day distribution is now allowed by making use of the flexibility in the speed of the letters. In sparsely populated areas without an early distribution network for newspapers, the Postal Act guarantees the distribution of letters sent five days a week. The universal service provider, in this respect Posti Oyj, is obliged to tender distribution in those areas where there is no market-based early distribution network for newspapers. In these areas, distribution must therefore be carried out without exception at least five days a week, ultimately by Posti Oyj. There is an existing market-based distribution in cities up to seven days a week, so in practice in cities the possibility of five days of distribution remains without the Postal Act imposing an obligation on Posti Corporation to distribute universal service letters five days a week. The Finnish Communications Agency, in cooperation with newspapers and Posti Oyj, defines the areas to be competitive and ensures that no area falls into a blind spot. The committee discussed this organisation of the competition and concluded that Posti Oyj was able to define this area to be competitive on its own. Whether it goes by postal codes or by other, wider areas, then remains to be seen, but the minimum level is defined by law. Mr President! I am sure and I hope that it has become clear here today what and what kind of universal service postal service is covered by this law. To sum up: postal correspondence and postcards, as well as small packages, which are thus mailed to each other by the mailmasters, with a volume of less than 5% of all postal products to be distributed. Three-day distribution does not apply, for example, to letters sent by companies or agencies — hospital letters, bills — or to the distribution of advertisements, newspapers or magazines. For these, distribution will continue to take place five days a week. Not to mention letters and transmissions on a contractual basis, such as by the Defence Forces. Mr President! It is clear that for Posti's employees the situation needs to be calmed down. Even those working in the postal sector will certainly do their job with enthusiasm and pride and skill. For postal workers, the failure of the income base when distribution volumes fall has resulted in ongoing negotiations and redundancies. The distribution circuits have grown, and unfortunately the rush has increased. We need to break the cycle and return the peace to the house. It should be remembered that the result of Posti's postal services has remained reasonable because Posti has continuously improved its operations and without any improvements and reductions in personnel, Posti's result would certainly be loss-making. I am quite sure that this Chamber and Parliament share the idea that supporting Posti with public funding is not a cure to respond to a major transformation. Posti is a wholly state-owned limited company. It operates under the law on limited liability companies in a competitive market opened by the EU, and I am sure that no one, even the opposition, has provided Post with public subsidies and will not do so. There is no money in the treasury of the State, and it would then be denied the inevitable fact that the volume of distribution is constantly falling in letters and magazines, especially as a result of electronic distribution channels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u99	Mr President! Posti is one of the basic services of society that is rapidly changed irrevocably by digitalisation. As this government's proposal is moving from 5 days to 3 days a week in a part of the country, Denmark is already discussing a once-a-weekly distribution obligation across the country. Finland is well known for being a few years behind Denmark in digitalisation, so at the latest at the beginning of the next decade, Finland will also be in the same situation when invoices, newspapers and letters from public authorities have moved to the network. I don't think this law of mail is very long-lived. At the latest at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, the preparation of a new reform of the postal law must begin. In practice, however, this bill speeds up progress, because as the flow of other mail is slowed down with letters, for example, the payment times of bills are forced to stretch, which encourages companies to give up expensive and slow paper bills once and for all. Already too much of all mail is being delayed, which has caused different problems for citizens. Mr President! The government is taking advantage of the radical change in the postal market and with this proposal will open up the postal market to competition. This is in line with the government's market-faith line. In the Government's ideas, all public service production is expensive and clumsy and companying or outsourcing is the fastest way to reduce costs. The market economy is often a very useful tool, because open competition opens the door to new ways of working, but then its competition must really be open and genuine. Unfortunately, this is not the case in this reform of the Postal Act. How could it be when one company, Posti Oy, has all the universal service obligations, but the lives of its competitors are made as easy as possible to make it easy for them to enter the market? For example: Posti Oy, as a universal service provider, is still required to maintain the national address register, but it is obliged to provide the address information to its competitors only at the cost of removal, not at the cost of production. The universal service company Posti Oy also has to handle the distribution when one of its competitors abandons the delivery of mail, which in turn is very easy to do with a simple notification two weeks before the distribution is discontinued. Posti also incurs costs for the distribution errors made by its competitors, since incorrectly distributed shipments are in practice returned to Posti, not to companies competing with Posti. This is not genuine competition; it is a travesty of a market economy. The fact that Posti's distribution obligation is determined on the basis of the distribution network of newspapers, not Post's own distribution network, makes this proposal particularly special. With the same logic, VR's timetables should be defined, for example, on the basis of the availability of urban bikes in the City of Helsinki. Mr President! Posti Oy and other postal service companies face difficult times, and there is no denying that. Only those postal service companies can survive the 20th century that can adapt and exploit digitalisation. In practice, postal services develop into logistics services, which sometimes also deliver paper mail. Mainly However, the cost tramples online shopping and daily goods, but whether Kustin pays the salary Post Ltd, PostNord, Amazon or AliExpress remains to be seen. Mr President! Finally, let us consider the noise that would have arisen in this Chamber if the distribution of letters had been reduced in sparsely populated areas, but it had been maintained in urban areas and not vice versa, as is now being done. Apparently, the services of towns and cities are not as important to the government or, at least, not to all government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u100	Mr President! In recent years, the post office has been in considerable difficulties. There have been redundancies, negotiations and lay-offs, and now the workers are afraid that between 2500 and 3,000 lay-offs will come. What is your assessment, Minister, of how much this reform will cost jobs? Another issue that also applies to employees is that people are in a state of constant uncertainty if you always have to compete and the competition will tell you how many people are put away this time or how much will be taken in. People in this room know how stressful it is every four years when you know you have to compete for your own job, but On the mail side they may get a little faster, and it is not their choice as we do. There has also been talk here that we no longer need to distribute so much mail, because this electronic procedure will increase. That is what will happen, but I would like to point out in this connection that it is certainly not clear what has been seen at the moment and, unfortunately, in the case of prescriptions. Too often, there is a situation where the system has crashed and you can't get the recipe you're going to get, but you have to come back another day. That's a very bad thing. If we slow down the flow of mail, it certainly is now a matter of 5% or even just 1%, it is probably a question of savings. What's the real savings? Now the estimates are that it would be 20 million. What is the savings, Minister, which this will achieve when Posti's activities are now being changed and the operations of Posti are undoubtedly being weakened? Moreover, I am very concerned about this privacy policy, which is also destabilising here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u101	Mr President! However, I would like to return to the fundamental point that this confidence that Posti will share its important letter, that is, its mail, and that it will also be possible to send letters, is an important part of the basic functions of our society and of the cohesion between our societies. When the representative of the plant talked about this direction of development, everyone will see that there is a development going on here where this electronic side takes up more space. But there will be very long activities and people who depend on the basic functions of this old Post. When it comes to the fact that Posti is doing these other services, when I talk to the citizens, who are getting a lot of feedback today even in Helsinki, no one in Helsinki is going to miss — I have never met anyone who would have missed — mowing the grass, but yes they have missed the mail they expect on the day they have to come, and they will be happy to take it close to themselves and not to move these services further and further away from this mail delivery.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u102	Mr President! There was a need for that introduction. I am sorry, I did not keep it, but this is a very unambiguous report and can be read by everyone. The universal service obligation, which is thus covered by this Act,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u109	Madam President! It is a good thing that we have a little bit of this presentation. Of course, it would have been even better to get it started. But one thing that I would like to underline here, which was not really very clear, is the impact on employment. When it seems to be estimated that unemployment will increase, thousands of jobs will be lost over the next few years, and that is a very big thing, I would like to see an analysis of how this kind of development will be accepted on a day when unemployment will be one of our biggest problems. Then the previous question which the Social Democrats objected to, among other things, and which the Committee on Defence had drawn attention to, was precisely this security of supply, the question of this staff, that what about in times of crisis, if a lot of people are being put away in a cold way. Have these things been analysed more deeply than just let go?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u110	Mr President! As has often been said here, this is the Postal Act, not the Posti Oy Act, and of course these exceptional measures for postal distributors, which are very often carried out on the basis of contractual activities — such as the Defence Forces' Letters and others — i.e. this is in that respect the Postal Act, that is what I would like to emphasise. With such employment effects, which therefore apply to Posti Oy, it may be appropriate to contact the members of the Board of Directors, because it is a matter for the limited company, not this postal law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u111	Madam President! I think that this debate on the postal law has been very wavy, and I have been a little surprised that the voices of the opposition are being voiced which I have had a little difficulty in understanding in the present time: internalisation, which is your message. In this context, I would like to thank Mrs Mats Löfström and also the chairman of the Post Board of Directors, Mr Markku Ross, who, in their own speeches, made a good point about this where we are going. Mr Löfström's speech was very commendable, particularly because he very well pointed out in his speech how things have changed in Finland, and also that we are not alone in this matter, but that the same development has taken place in all the Nordic countries, that is happening in Central Europe, and that development we cannot but do anything about. That is, of course, another matter: are we going to adapt to the new circumstances or are we going to cry about the seriousness of the situation? Until now, Finland has survived and developed into a civilised state, precisely because we have adapted to the new situation and have been able to act accordingly. There is no going back to the time when things were going well and now they are going badly. You don't have to change the direction of the wind. You have to learn how to sail. This law, as has been said during this debate, is not the Posti Oyj Act or any other postal company's law, but a bill on postal distribution in general, which has now come here for Parliament's consideration in the form of a report. First of all, the situation has changed dramatically. About 10 per cent of the year this correspondence is reduced in this country, each of us is guilty of it. We receive up to hundreds of e-mails every day and respond electronically. We do not send letters, which in itself is a great pity, because a handwritten letter is certainly more impressive than a boring e-mail, but that time has now passed for us quite a bit. Then we send text messages and call friends on cell phones. There can be no way that the world has changed, and it does not make sense to resist it. Similarly, the distribution of newspapers is decreasing. This morning, I read the regional newspaper Karelian in bit format directly from the computer board. So the newspaper didn't come, too, but I got the information from the magazine, a very likely version, to read it on the computer screen. Madam President! This proves that the world has changed, and this bill specifically responds to that changed world. The number of letters, letter stamps and postcards subject to universal service obligations, when decreasing, is then given the possibility that in rural areas, where there are no such companies operating under free competition, other goods, other postal services, even passenger transport, may be distributed in the spirit of the new law. In other words, the field will be opened so that the postman or woman who delivers the post will be able to carry out her work even better than before. So far, nothing but mail, mail and mail items, nothing else, has been allowed to ride in the mail. Someone's been laughing about the mailman driving the lawn. If you're paying for it and you're paying for it, that's a good situation. If a person can get help from it or order a milk can from a local K-store, when he can't walk because he's in bad shape, if that's how he gets it done, that's a good thing. I see no harm in the world changing and we adapting to that change in the world. When you read this good report written by the committee, it really does occur to me that all the things that are involved today in the delivery of mail in this country have been taken into account. Even what the Constitutional Committee stated in its Opinion 7/2017 that there are letters or other documents which are sent by mail and which must necessarily be reached in time has been taken into account in this report, and precisely so that the Constitutional Committee did not see any constitutional problem or problems relating to human rights and other rights of a person in it, so that the Constitutional Committee would have reacted to this issue. Therefore, this aspect has also been revised and it has been established that this amendment to the Postal Act does not infringe the fundamental rights of people. Which means we've got that side checked out, too. And just as the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, said, the report has then stated, lastly, that if, once this bill has been adopted, the law comes into force and then there are obvious shortcomings in the law, then, of course, Parliament can come back to the matter and adopt a new law or then amend this law in force even better. It is quite certain that there is no such law in this country that will remain in force for a hundred years. The world is changing at an accelerating pace and sometimes it feels like it is difficult to keep up with legislation, but we cannot stay here and complain about the fact that this is where the world is changing, we cannot do anything. After that, the mail will be delivered, the letters will be distributed, the postcards will be distributed. I just discussed the newspaper with the editor - general of Karelia, and they too can guarantee that Karjalainen will come home every seven days a week. So the problem has also been solved that it is not worth painting those horned images on the walls. It's better to learn how to sail, but you can't make a difference to the wind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u112	Before continuing the list of speakers, I would like to speak to Mr Berner for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u113	Madam President! I would like to thank the committee for its report and also the representatives for the debate here. I would like to give answers to some of the points that have been raised here. Posti does not have to tender every year, but FICORA defines the areas and reviews them annually. Of course, the post office can compete at longer intervals and do so according to its own need and rhythm. Mr Löfström raised the issues of the archipelago and other exceptional areas. Post offices are still being distributed at least once a week to the Archipelago and other exceptional regions, and the number of exempt economies has now been raised from 300 to 1000, and this is OK with the Constitutional Committee. Opening up the competition will not be carried out in itself in this proposal, but it has been done in the past. It is now a question of: Posti itself may use competitive tendering and must use competitive tendering when the services are otherwise not provided on market terms. This proposal does not in itself seek specific savings, but it is intended to ensure that when letters under universal service obligations cause losses to Post — if I remember correctly — of around EUR 70 million, they do not pass on to taxpayers in the future to cover the losses of universal service with taxpayers' money. Postal services and other postal undertakings have agreed to handle incorrectly distributed consignments on a contractual basis, and universal service obligations can go further and be imposed in areas where there is no market-based supply. This has also been done in telecommunications areas, and it is intended to do so here too, in order to ensure the provision of services in sparsely populated areas. Bills and hospital letters are not subject to postal law obligations, that is, they are not within our regulatory reach. No one can have access to the register of addresses — only a postal undertaking affected by secrecy — and this has also been checked by the Constitutional Committee. Security of supply has been discussed in committee and this proposal does not change the current provisions. The law already has an operating model for emergency conditions. By post, and In addition to the law, the Defence Forces have agreements for exceptional circumstances. I hope that with these I have answered all the outstanding questions that have been put to me. And once again, thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u114	Madam President! I think this amendment to the Postal Code is bad. Finnish postal services will become weaker and more expensive. The people and the elderly in the outermost regions are left to their own devices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u117	Madam President! Very interesting, the opposition's message overall. The representative of the plant has just criticised the fact that this government and this proposal is oppressing cities and the delivery of mail from cities, and now Mr Hänninen has argued that rural customers are suffering from this and are being oppressed by them. This is simply not the case. The legislation will also provide protection in sparsely populated areas, rural areas, postal services in practice in five, with certain arrangements also in seven days, magazines mostly, and this is a major reform, a major change. In cities distribution will take place in a more or less modern form, five days, at best seven days by several distribution companies. And when you look at this whole, I actually see that this will improve the reliability and security of Finnish mail delivery in future, even in changing circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u118	Mr President! In the Committee on Transport and Communications, we have studied this bill very well and very carefully. Thank you for these threats to the opposition. In particular, when Mrs Hänninen has just presented these threats, these fears, it is a good thing that they have all been raised, and we in the committee have also discussed and taken these concerns into account — thank you for them, these have also been needed. We have sought to bring about such a law that would render these concerns unnecessary. The most important thing is that the flow of mail throughout Finland can be secured equally, equally after this and even better than at the moment, because there are clearly problems at the moment and we need to be able to correct those problems. When there is competition and we happen to be part of it in the EU, there are certain things that need to be competitive under EU regulations, and we have already opened postal tendering. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] How, then, will these services be developed when there is only about 4% of the universal postal service, or a really small proportion of the postal service to be delivered? Most of what we consider to be mail is contract mail, i.e. newspapers, advertisements, transmissions by the Defence Forces, Kela's letters, company mails, these are all contract mail, which is handled by the company distributing the mail and by the company or operator concerned. In other words, the company can agree on a wide range of issues for the delivery of mail. What has not come up today is that, according to the agreement, these distribution companies can deliver mail even on the same day. Very many express mails exist that are distributed very quickly. In the future, this activity under the agreement will certainly be even more important and a competitive factor for the various companies. Yes, Posti Oy wants to be competitive, and surely it will offer various services so that certain things and services can be delivered very quickly. But everything costs, i.e. Posti Oy's operations must be profitable in order to produce competitive distribution services. Note: the government does not pay a cent for Posti's activities. Thus, for example, in the distribution of newspapers and books, prices must be such that these companies purchase those services and Posti is able to provide them. This bill has sought to take account of the fact that we could continue to provide competitive services and that even the distribution price of magazines must be so low that we can afford to buy and order the magazine. When we, as taxpayers, do not start paying for that distribution, we must set up laws and regulations that allow these prices to be competitive. This is what this whole thing is all about. It has been discussed that this will reduce jobs. This will certainly lead to fewer jobs. But whatever we do here, the number of jobs will decrease anyway, because we are living in 2017. There are certain developments and activities all the time. With this change of law, we are trying to ensure that this change in jobs is controlled and we know what this whole is aimed at, and then we could really produce these equal services across Finland at competitive prices. There are problems with the delivery of mail, we all know that, and those problems must indeed be taken seriously. For example, today I was in contact with Ivalo. There have been problems there last week: for example, the people of Lapland have not been allocated on a given day to certain areas at all, the post office has become perhaps terribly late, and everything about this sort of thing. These are serious problems, and we must be able to deal with them, and I hope that we will be able to help with this amendment of the law so that there will not be so many of these problems in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u121	Mr President! There has been criticism of Posti's activities in the current law, and that is quite true, Posti has not distributed mail as it should be distributed on the basis of the current law. But the solution is not to change the law, to reduce the level of being at the legal level, but, of course, to ensure that all those who are responsible for overseeing Post's activities have done their job. It was only recently that FICORA imposed a penalty payment of EUR 100,000 on Posti that if you did not start to run the mail now, the fine would drop and even start finding employees. They hired more people to get the job done. It's a very simple solution. Too few workers have been able to share, and now that employees have been hired, the service has improved. That is what we should have been calling for all along, as the SDP has been calling for. As far as this new law is concerned, the wording used in many speeches is that Posti is losing money and so on. But I'll read it to you. Posti's document, a public record of what Posti himself says about this: "Competitions have expanded their delivery of mail with the Postal Act, which entered into force in June 2016. So Posti's net sales went down with this. So when the country’s government passed the postal law number one last year, it caused this loss of revenue for Posti. — — — — Do you want me to come to that toilet, Speaker? [The President : Yes, if you wish!] — — — — Thank you. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! The government of this country made the Postal Act number one, which made it easier for companies to share mail through a simple notification procedure, and this has been the reason for the decrease in Posti's revenues. Then Posti is also a big group. It has about 50 different companies, which also operate internationally, including Russia. Well, last year Russia has made EUR 4.1 million in losses and in the year before EUR 5 million in losses, and this loss will then be financed by these domestic operations. So we also have to look at the whole and not just keep saying that because of the decrease in the number of letters, now we have to change the law. This isn't how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u124	Madam President! It should be noted that this postal law does not directly reduce Posti's employees, but the fall in distribution volumes does so, i.e. the behaviour of citizens with regard to postal services. If there is nothing to share, then there are no jobs, and that is why Posti needs to adapt, and we need to move forward quickly and consolidate Post. Mr President! As far as the postal market is concerned, the EU has opened up the postal market to competition ten years ago, and in this world we are now living. It is as if Mr Taavitsainen were somehow fighting against windmills at national level against this situation. These talks and discussions should take place at EU level and influence them if they are to close these markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u125	Mr President! I would now like to repeat to Mr Vehkaperä what you read in the Posti document: the fact that Posti's turnover has fallen is very much due to the fact that competitors have expanded their mail distribution with the postal law that came into force in June 2016, i.e. your government's postal law number one. This is why Posti's results have deteriorated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u128	Madam President! It would be entirely wrong to conclude on the basis that, once competition has become more intense, Posti could not perform new activities, i.e. go forward in the logistics field. At the moment, Posti is a very efficient, functional, intelligent, logistical company, and yes, in that sector, Posti will continue to operate in the future. Postal laws have been reformed during the Holker government, during the Aho government, then during the Lipponen government. I have always felt a little ashamed that when we were in the opposition when Pekka Vennamo was reforming Post, we felt that the mail was going to end and things were going badly. I've got to admit it right here. The services of the post office improved. As a result, the availability of mail has increased and today is no longer in office hours and so on. So the world is changing, and we really need to know how to go along with it. As Minister of Ownership Steering, Minister Paatero was also promoting it, Mr Heinäluoma, that, for example, the mowing of grass, which I personally do not consider to be very much of an activity for the Post itself, may have one of these forms that is being used. So let's get some new ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u129	Mr President! Member of Parliament, former Minister Sirpa Paatero is an excellent politician and was a good Minister of Ownership Steering, careful, skilled, and took good care of the state's corporate governance and also listened to the staff. I'm one of those people with lawns. I cut it myself, but I can even think of using help to do it. And I have not objected to Posti doing lawn surgery for those who want to, but I say that I see less demand for this lawn cutting among the citizens than I do for that postbox.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u130	One more response, Mr Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u131	Mr President! I don't want to prolong this conversation. I agree fully with you, Mr Heinäluoma, that this type of service is not even capable of forming a marginal part of Post's activities. But if you think about the fact that Posti actually comes anyway, you can say, in every household, at least in principle, if there is mail for delivery, every day, then if there are other measures, such as the delivery of food services to the home in a remote region or even in cities, then it is a service that needs to be accepted and taken into account with today's social reforms and others. On this scale, though it may be a competition with someone else, let Post also have that opportunity. These ideas have come from the staff themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u133	Madam President! The first thing to say to Mr Vehkäperä about this latest debate is that the outsourcing required by this law, which is going to be, will cause the job losses. You say that we have to get out of the continuous cycle, that we have to cut it off. Personally, I would say that the solution would be someone else than to put 2,500 to 3000 jobs to be remeasured at one time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u136	Madam President! A few more comments on the debate on the postal law: I understand the pain of the opposition in this matter, but we must remember that in the free world competition is free and we simply cannot do anything about it. I thought I understood from the previous statements made by the opposition that we are here, as we are about to bring the world down. There are no people in this law who are going to be unemployed. To the fact that the distribution field is diverse, neither I nor any representative can do anything. Whether Posti Oyj or any other company distributes the magazines, and whether this is The post office employee in question who is a member of the union is a completely different matter. In any case, mail is still being distributed in this country, and then these companies hire the workforce when it has to be distributed. We must ensure by law that our service field remains alive and in particular that Posti divides it into the countryside, which is now a matter of real concern to the demars. I'm very moved that for once you are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u139	Mr President! The basic task is always what you have to brighten every single day. What is Post's basic mission? I asked for the floor because I would like to raise one more point — a little bit of Mr Hoskonen’s intervention here — that is to say, what the conditions of employment are. So now there is also the background to the fact that, when this Postal Act, first of all, gave companies the opportunity to do more in the delivery of mail, these companies have worse working conditions, lower pay for employees. I wouldn't go there now to compliment the big salaries of Posti's basic employees, which means they're pretty small even at Posti and even smaller in these distribution companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u142	Mr President! It was pointed out in this debate that the obligations of exceptional circumstances have not been taken into account in the Committee on Transport and Communications in accordance with the wishes expressed by another committee. They have been taken into account, and it has indeed been taken into account and the matter has been ensured that the martial law of the Defence Forces will certainly be in order accordingly. Then the post office is not currently, according to this law, about to disengage people. Recently, even more staff have been recruited as needed. And then the fact that the universal service obligation is currently not allowed to make a profit under this current law. In other words, Posti Plc has to generate its profits from all other business activities, and fortunately, it has managed to make that profit through its extensive business, and it has made it possible to manage the services throughout Finland. Finally, the state is already doing a lot of corporate governance. And one of the instruments is the Governing Board, whose members should be aware of the important role they play in the management and control of Posti from the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u143	Madam President! It is clear that existing collective agreements and other agreements are respected. It's a starting point that can't be compromised by a million. But that the world has become this way, there has been more competition, and we cannot do anything about it. I visited that few cities in Eastern Finland because of the role of this congressman. There was an event where Posti Corporation was criticised for not having been able to deliver parcels. On that occasion, I asked the question whether you are absolutely certain that this distributing company has been precisely this company they mentioned or whether it may have been another distribution company in the city. Even in Joensuu, I know, there are many companies that share brochures, for example. Here, when people or operators are always being blamed, it is always worth considering and choosing their word not to go barking at a tree that does not really sit down. Now that the Postal Act is now under discussion, I would like to see other activities put on the market here in connection with the delivery of mail, and that is a good thing for rural areas. Rural services have been secured, and there is no one in this world who can do anything about it. Is it anyone's fault that someone sells more cheap plastic buckets than the other? I can't imagine whose fault it is. But this is the way the world is, and that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u144	Mr President! I am a little surprised to hear Mr Hoskosen say that it is as if it were some miracle that we are defending the countryside. We are defending the opposition, both rural and urban, because we believe that people should be treated equally, and this law discriminates against people. I see myself coming pretty deep from the countryside, Eastern Finland. South Savo, South Karelia, Kymenlaakso — there is a lot of rural areas and there are still early distribution companies. So there will be distribution in their territory, including in the countryside, for three days. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u145	Mr President! No one needs to know for themselves whether they belong to a three-day or five-day universal service distribution area. What Mr Taavitsainen said about these early distribution areas: The FICORA will define these areas very precisely. It will also take responsibility for the fact that these map definitions are working. And I am at least firmly convinced by what was said to us in the committee that these map issues are in order and accordingly every Finn will receive that magazine at least five days a week if you order mail five days a week — but you can’t get that mail any more than you order it for yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u146	Mr President! I do disagree when the previous representative has just said that no one needs to know whether it belongs to a three-day distribution area or a five-day distribution area: in particular, entrepreneurs who advertise in newspapers or other should know. It has a significant impact on their livelihood and on whether they are advertised in real magazines and in the right days. As far as Mr Hoskoen is concerned, the problem is that there are already so many postal operators. People do not know which post office operator has distributed what letter, there will be misallocations, and people will return these incorrectly distributed mails to Posti, where Posti Limited will then have to collect and work to redistribute these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u147	Mr President! I have no choice but to make sure that people do not have to be aware of whether they are part of a three-day distribution or a five-day distribution. Yes, it is something of great importance that many people are interested in. And then the fact that this proposal specifically states that areas where newspapers are available for early distribution can have a three-day distribution. But when that can change, and it changes the situation of the neighbor too, how to order magazines. Even if the neighbor does not order, it will change the delivery of his mail as well, whether he is a three-day or a five-dayer. Yes, I say that such legislation, which is based on where a private company is operating and where it is not, is indeed very strange.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u148	Mr President! Indeed, the Finnish Communications Agency is currently defining these early distribution areas and areas where there is no early distribution, and how they should then be used for competitive tendering of this distribution. But it's a minimum distribution area. In the future, Posti Oy will be able to tender for distribution in any kind of area, you can almost say whatever you want to share. There may be packages bigger than universal service obligations and so on. In other words, this is left to the company itself to consider what is profitable in business terms, but the minimum level for the universal service, i.e. the provision of basic public services, is now laid down in legislation. And as far as the distribution companies are concerned, President-in-Office, it is true that in future Posti Oy will also be able to conclude an agreement with the distribution companies on who will answer, how to respond and how to respond and how to recover the costs of handling and re-submitting incorrectly distributed mail. This seems to me to be a business matter for Posti Oy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u149	Mr President! Mr Vehkäperä said that, but we are fortunate enough to have Posti, who, at the last stage, will be able to take care of these incorrectly distributed mails, that they will not go into the trash or anywhere else after that. It will take more time, but we must remember that everyone who does business is obliged to do it in the right way and legally. After all, everyone is bound by legislation and even by criminal law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u150	Mr President! On this subject, I would like to say what we have greatly wondered about: After all, this address register is Posti's property and one of its specific competitive advantages, as any company has the basic case under which it conducts its business, and this is now being forced to give its competitors an affordable price. At the moment, Posti has been able to charge a price for it, and it has been a price so high that competitors have not wanted to pay it, and now the price is being forced down, so that the competitors then receive these addresses. I would like to compare this with exactly the same situation for VR, when these plans have been in place, that VR will have to deliver its equipment at an affordable price to competitors who will be involved in rail transport. When this market economy has been so ragged around here, what would you call such a market economy that the company is forced to give its equipment to another competitor at the lowest possible price so that the other one will succeed? What kind of market economy is this? And then on this post address: Yes, in this world when there are various cyber attacks and all kinds of hybrid influence, people’s addresses are not just any kind of material to hand over, especially since, after the first phase of the Postal Act, anyone can actually register as a postal company and ask for these addresses. There you can hear the great damage done — even though it is said that, well, it is illegal and so on — when it is stated only afterwards that these addresses are:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u151	Madam President! I came to this at the very end of the debate and I will just say quickly that it seems a little bit like the government is making a proposal that is well-defensible in the deep ranks of rural areas, like the representative. Tavitsainen here also points out, but there is still resistance to change when something is changed and developed. So what could that SDP model really be on this issue because you're about to take down this whole law? I didn't really get the idea that what's the point here. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u152	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u153	Mr President! I will take the floor on a slightly exceptional matter, but there are more than one reason for this. The first point is that it is often said here that there will be no support from the opposition for the government's proposals, and now I thought to announce that this government proposal is extremely necessary and worthy of support. I warmly support it. It is therefore an air transport agreement with Mauritius, which has been prepared for a long time and which has a very big, genuine meaning for our interaction with Mauritius. After all, Mauritius — supposedly — is a beautiful island country in Africa, with another million inhabitants. Most importantly, it is a multi-party democracy, a parliamentary democracy, independent in 1968. This agreement is therefore excellent for the relations between the two countries. Mauritius will be 50 years old next year and Finland will be 100 years old this year, so it is in this context that the conclusion of an agreement is the best thing. I have not been to the island myself, although I have heard many Finns praise its beauty. It is therefore a good tourist destination, and aircraft connections are therefore quite important to us as well. Of course, airports are required for the success of air transport. Mauritius has five airports, we have a little more. Of course, Mauritius reminds me of Malmi Airport. I do not know if Malmi Airport would be suitable as a charter airport, which could be used to travel to Mauritius, but in any case Malmi Airport is essential because of the fact that its affairs are currently under political discussion both here in Parliament and in the government of the country. The future of Malmi Airport is unclear. We talked about this in connection with the discussion of the citizens' initiative before the municipal elections with quite a lot of intensity and high headlines. At that time, even the Prime Minister was present, who said that the government was prepared to take decisions on this issue of Malmi so that he felt that the government could secure the continuation of operations at Malmi. Well, since then, I think it was even the same night, the Finance Minister came to say that this kind of discussion has not been conducted in the government, and this government's common line was a little vague. I myself was of the opinion that the government should decide, as far as Malmi is concerned, whether it is using airport operations at Malmi, or whether there is air traffic control there, whether the Border Guard is using it, because if there is no air traffic control there will then be no access to Mauritius — or anywhere else. On this basis, when this agreement is discussed with Mauritius, it would of course be useful to know whether we have any future operations at Malmi Airport. The uncertainty that exists in this area is hampering recreational aviation at Malmi Airport and is also a major burden in the hearts of friends at Malmi Airport, but it is also a big issue for the development of air transport. Then, on the other hand, it is the issue of housing in Helsinki, where we do not know what is going to be done in this area until this matter has been resolved, so I hope that the government will explain not only the plans for Mauritius's air links, which I therefore warmly support, but also what is going to be done about Malmi Airport.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u154	Mr President! This is, as has been said, a government proposal that is well worth supporting. In my opinion, too, it is very important that all in all these air links to Mauritius are in order. That's why I'm in the mood that when Mr. Heinäluoma talked about Malmi Airport, I had just registered here that Tampere-Pirkkala. It is also very important and has many challenges. [ The speaker laughs] But now to a serious matter. This is no longer funny, but this association, this Tampere challenge and also the challenge of Malmi: since Mr Heinäluoma raised that Malmi, I would like to say that I too participated in that debate. I think it was quite symbolic that, before the municipal elections here at Prime Minister level, the government party and everywhere were given promises that this field of Malmi would be secured. So, what happened? Since the election, I haven't heard the government's exits. In that sense, Mr President, it was interesting that Mr Petteri Orpo and Mr Mykkänen, the new Minister, also took a position, and then the government itself is not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u155	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma's donkey bridge was a bit difficult for me to understand how Mauritius's flight agreement relates to Malmi Airport. But, as a comfort to me, I could say as a little relief that at the time a representative from the centre of the House was in a debate when a completely different point was presented — he was keen on wolfing — to defend the safety of people in rural areas. He took the floor and said that this report by the Government's Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this issue is a very wolf, and as far as wolves are concerned, then went on with the wolf talk. This is a little in the same category, maybe. But seriously, I personally support the Mauritius agreement. It is an important holiday island for Finns. I understand its warm longing, when it was an unusually cold spring, and then we get this kind of air contract to be born, it is a worthy thing. Then, on this issue of Malmi, I will simply say that I have respected the fact that it is a matter of Helsinki's own, an issue within the City of Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u160	Mr President! I would like to make a second speech on this subject, above all because I am offering the representatives of the government parties the opportunity to clarify this issue of Malmi. I did check in advance at the meeting of the Council of Presidents whether this would also allow us to talk about contacts from Malmi to Mauritius, and the President-in-Office at the time does, in his view, offer. This is therefore an important point that although I am not generally very long-term, I still remember what happened this spring, and when there was so much talk of Malmi before the municipal elections, this silence since the municipal elections has been shocking. It just hurts my ears that there will be no further talk of this matter after the elections. It's gone away somewhere, in the ether, out in the open. Maybe it's gone to Mauritius. I don't hear anything. And yet, when it was a huge question, I would assume that it would be possible, on the part of the government parties, to clarify a little about how this issue of Malmi is now being dealt with and whether these government decisions are coming in such a way as to return to state activities, such as air traffic control, which is necessary for air traffic both at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u161	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen's comment is just such that this is an explicit issue in this House and this is now a question of the government's actions. However, if one promises in a sense that this can be maintained, sympathy comes very strongly from the government parties, from this Chamber and even from the ministerial, Prime Minister level, then of course the government should have the capacity, for example, to transfer activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u164	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal must be supported. Those remarks made by Mr Heinäluoma about the silence of Malmi Airport are, of course, to be taken into account. I think I have one of the hats from my United Nations police colleague once.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u165	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u166	Mr President! I present my bill as a law in Chapter 14, Section 4, paragraph 2 of the Health Insurance Act. In essence, the initiative is as follows: "Article 4 of Chapter 14 of the Sickness Insurance Act. A new provision on the right of full-time entrepreneurs to compensation of EUR 2500 for family leave costs arising from parenthood must be added. The compensation will be paid to the company. The law applies to micro-enterprises with fewer than 10 persons." Background: We accepted the government's proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act. According to a provision of the Health Insurance Act: "The right to compensation for family leave costs arising from parenthood. An employer of a female worker is paid a lump sum of EUR 2500 for family leave costs arising from parenthood. The allowance is based on pregnancy or adoption and is subject to the payment of maternity allowance or parental allowance by the adoptive mother and the employer, based on the same pregnancy or adoption, has paid wages for at least one month during the parental allowance period of the maternity or adoptive mother on the basis of a collective agreement or a contract of employment. It is also required that the employment relationship has lasted at least 3 months before the start of the maternity allowance period or the adoption mother’s parental allowance period and is based on a contract of employment for at least one year. The period of one year may also be fulfilled on the basis of two or more fixed-term contracts immediately following each other. The working time of the worker shall be at least 80 % of the regular working time of the full-time worker at the beginning of the parental allowance period of the maternity or adoptive mother. If the employer is not obliged to comply with the collective agreement, the working time shall be at least 80 % of the regular working time referred to in Chapter 3 of the Working Time Act. The provisions of this Article on collective agreements and employment shall apply accordingly to the contract of employment and the contract of employment. " Mr President! I would point out that this provision, which I have just read, concerns only employees and that the drafting of the law has not considered the position of entrepreneurs. The position of entrepreneurs is therefore unbalanced with regard to employees. The right to compensation for family leave costs arising from parenthood must also apply to women working as micro-entrepreneurs and, in some cases, to men. Mr President! There are about 86,000 female entrepreneurs in Finland, which is one third of all entrepreneurs. Women's entrepreneurship is largely a single enterprise, and the quantitative growth in female entrepreneurship also focuses on entrepreneurship. Women become the most active entrepreneurs between the ages of 35 and 44. The entrepreneurship of women between the ages of 20 and 34 is affected by the mandatory costs of starting a family for business activities. In the event of maternity and parental leave during that period, the female entrepreneur will have to pay the compulsory statutory fees for business activities and any other operating expenses, even if he or she does not have any income for the company during maternity and parental leave. In the worst case scenario, this could bring down the business. By supporting women's entrepreneurship during maternity and parental leave, we contribute to the foundation on which women are equal to male entrepreneurs. It would also support our employment, because entrepreneurship can continue more easily after parental leave and we understand that increasing employment rates is the key to the economy. In this connection, I would like to highlight a point of view that is rarely mentioned. The employment of immigrant women, regardless of their entry criteria, is even lower than that of immigrant men, who, as we are well aware, are well below that of the native population. There is a clear difference between men and whether they have come to the country on a humanitarian basis or otherwise. Bravely for the future: with this bill we would also contribute to the self-employment of immigrant women. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: Act amending Section 4 of Chapter 14 of the Health Insurance Act. In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, the following provision is added to Section 4(2) of Chapter 14 of the Health Insurance Act: "The micro-enterprise will receive a lump sum of EUR 2500 for family leave costs arising from parenthood. The allowance is based on pregnancy or adoption and is subject to the payment of maternity allowance or parental allowance by the adoptive mother. In addition, business activities are required to be the main activity and business activities have lasted at least three months before the start of the maternity allowance period or the adoption mother's parental allowance period."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u167	Madam President! I am not familiar with this bill and I am not very familiar with this problem and its details, but in general terms it is very good to think about supporting entrepreneurship, supporting micro-entrepreneurship, supporting female entrepreneurship. That is why I would like to draw attention to the fact that when these legislative initiatives, which have good principles, are brought to Parliament, I hope that the committees will also take them into consideration in such a way that they will be examined and then seen if they are such that they can be taken forward. On the basis of long experience, I can say that too often, when initiatives are taken from the representatives, they are, as it were, buried in the committee. That is why I would like to see a proper study of initiatives involving important thematic areas such as this one, and if – and often when – there are real good ideas, they could be taken forward. In this context, President, I would also like to say that, in general, when we talk about family matters and things like this, I would have liked and expected the government to see that the reform of the family leave itself and all in itself would have moved during this period of government, because we know that it has a great deal to do not only with regard to equality between women but also with regard to employment and all this. That is why I continue to call for it to be not too late for the government parties to reach an agreement that the reform of the family leave will be carried out in all its aspects during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-07-ps-65.u168	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Cape for the very important comments on this matter. I would also like to point out — and I did not mention this before — that this applies specifically to these different micro-entrepreneurs. We in Finland, we know, have single entrepreneurs in the hairdressing industry and, of course, is in the cleaning business, and whatever we think about now, there are cosmetics and so on. And this is also partly related to the social welfare reform, that if these people, who are self-employed again in the health sector, would also provide some physical care services, for example. - Thank you.
