ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u1	On the 4th issue, we will continue to discuss the State budget for 2018. Now we're going to the ministry-specific hearing. We'll start with the Ministry of the Interior. Secretary Risikko, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u2	Mr President! A total budget of around EUR 1.5 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior next year. This is about EUR 56 million less than in the actual budget for this year. The change in appropriations is largely due to a reduction in the amount needed for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers compared to the previous year. The police account for about half of the budget in the section. In recent years, despite the difficult economic situation, it has even been possible to increase internal security resources. On the other hand, operating expenditure savings and other cuts made under the Government Programme will also reduce operating costs for us, so that internal security operators will have to look for new, more efficient and more productive operating models in a challenging operating environment. Finland’s internal security is linked to security situations in other EU Member States and neighbouring countries. The main themes for the 2018 budget year are the fight against terrorism, immigration, border security, cyber security and alert operations. International obligations also lay down requirements for action. In this context, the Government proposes, inter alia, an increase of EUR 300000 in the domestic capacity for civilian crisis management. With current funding, the Crisis Management Centre has not been able to deliver the performance required by the current international security situation. The Centre has had very limited resources and thus limited opportunities to organise deeper crisis management courses, which weakens Finland’s ability to send competent experts to international missions. I would like to highlight next year's budgetary perspectives and other key budgetary issues by priority axis: Mr President! In accordance with last spring's decision on spending limits, a total of EUR 34.5 million will be allocated to the police for 2018 in order to safeguard police resources, with a focus on strengthening hate speech and combating extremism. The number of policemen can be kept at 7200 and the starting points for police training have been increased to meet resource needs. Both acts of terrorism and hybrid influence have been priorities for police operational preparedness in the last two years. Following the tragic events in Turku in August, plans and procurement priorities for preparedness and prevention of terrorist acts were critically reviewed once again. Following the budgetary negotiations, the government decided to propose an additional EUR 9.4 million, in particular for the strengthening and prevention of police terrorism. In other words, the equipment and equipment of demanding police situations will be updated, for example because the police currently do not have enough bulletproof vehicle equipment. This is where we're going. The capability of the police to fight cybercrime will be improved. Additional resources will improve the ability to combat a variety of simultaneous, large-scale, long-term criminal issues and, at the same time, the ability to respond to rapid situations and the ability to communicate with these funds will now be improved. Models of preventive action will also be developed through cooperation between authorities and organisations. In order to safeguard the resources of the protection police, last spring's spending limits decision includes an increase of EUR 3.5 million. In order for the protection police to be able to carry out their duties, the Agency's resources need to be improved over a long period of time. This was also noted in the budget negotiations, which, as a result and as a result, proposes to strengthen the operational capacity of the protection police by an additional EUR 2.5 million by increasing resources for pre-processing, field surveillance and analytical work. So for next year, the police will receive an additional EUR 44 million and also a further EUR 6 million for the protection police. The increasing EU obligations of the Border Guard also require additional resources at Helsinki Airport, for example, where traffic flow is a critical success factor. An additional EUR 7.9 million was already set aside for monitoring the eastern border, securing the growth and smooth operation of Helsinki Airport's air traffic and other EU obligations in the spring decision. In the event of a threat, the Border Guard will also increase its readiness to strengthen controls and inspections, protect citizens and society at busy border crossings and in border and sea areas, and support the police and provide official assistance. Therefore, the rapid development of the Border Guard's capability, control and performance is also necessary. Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the national management, planning, guidance, supervision and coordination of rescue and preparedness operations will be strengthened and improved. The Ministry of the Interior will continue a project to prepare a rescue service reform to take effect at the beginning of 2020. An additional EUR 3 million will be allocated to emergency services information systems next year. The systems will be developed to be compatible with the information systems of social welfare and regional reform. The activities of the Emergency Response Centre and the authorities using Emergency Response Centre services will be harmonised at national level in relation to alert services. Next year, the additional amount of training for emergency services will be increased by the proposed additional amount of 265 million, in particular by investing in the training of bilingual emergency services. A total of approximately EUR 184 million has been allocated to expenditure on reception of refugees and asylum seekers and to subsidies to applicants in the 2018 budget. Expenditure has decreased from one year ago, both as the number of new arrivals has stabilised and as a result of measures to enhance the Finnish Immigration Service. The main reason for the large amounts of money being received is largely that people are not leaving the system in the desired way. This is influenced by the capacity of administrative courts to cope with an increasing number of appeals decisions, the speed and effectiveness of removals from the country where negative decisions have been taken, the effectiveness of voluntary return and the speed of the transfer of residence permits to the municipality. So many things affect the fact that we still have about fifteen thousand people in the reception system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u3	Now is the time to ask for answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u4	Mr President! Minister, the government has taken very good measures to get this immigration issue under control and to put internal security in order. A great deal of preventive measures and improvements have been made and the budget has been increased. However, I would have asked the Minister when, according to the spring forecast, these reception appropriations are now exceeded by EUR 80 million, and one of the reasons is precisely what the Minister mentioned: this return system has not worked properly. After all, we currently have 10,000 people waiting for these court decisions in the appeal process and this cycle of appeals seems to be endless. What can be done about such a matter that, even after a negative decision, there are also 1646 people who re-submit an asylum application and start from the beginning? How can it be speeded up, and how can we eliminate the spiral of repeated re-applications by the same persons when a negative decision has already been taken and complaints procedures have been completed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u5	Mr President! The government should applaud the very strong response to this general security situation and the downward trend in security funding that has continued over the last period has now been reversed. The funding of internal security for the various actors in the future budget has now been substantially increased. An internal security strategy and an operational programme are also under way on the basis of the first Internal Security Report. What is important, of course, is that these are sufficiently concrete, that there is a strong commitment to this whole for the various actors involved and that this report and strategy, together with its operational programmes, also create an adequate and long-term continuity and stability for the future, and thus stability for the long-term functioning of the internal security actors. Minister, can we be confident that, on the basis of these papers, this stability can now also be secured for the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u6	Mr President! First of all, of course, we must thank the government and the Minister for Home Affairs for the good work they have done to increase the budget for the police. The security situation has radically changed, and the government has reacted to it, that is good. It is a fact that, in previous years, far too large cuts were made in police funding. It is now a good thing that the police receive 44 million and the protection police receive 6 million and that police training is currently fully operational. Together with the Chief Executive of the Police, Minister, you have decided that at least 400 police officers will be trained every year in the field. Legislation needs to be developed, and that's another thing here. And we need to look at the fact that cooperation between the authorities is working better and that the police are able to cooperate fully in the prevention process. But my concern also relates to this continuity, how we can ensure that this funding remains, even if for a couple of parliamentary periods, in such a way as to secure police funds on a long-term basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u7	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this increase in the police budget. I'm sure the money will come in handy. In its own alternative budget, the SDP has already proposed an increase in police appropriations in the spring of last year. Now the government has come to the SDP line, and thank you for that. It is clear that the security situation has also changed, and it is good that the government also reacts to this situation. However, I would like to ask about this amount of police training, with a little reference to Mr Tolvanen's speech. Do you think, Minister, that you should create a parliamentary long arch behind more than one parliamentary term so that we can ensure a sufficient number of police officers for the coming years? Now this level has already fallen below the alert limit in this government and this level should be raised. The current level of police training is sufficient to maintain the number of police officers, but in what way do we increase them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u8	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I agree with Mr Kari that we need a plan over the parliamentary term to keep the situation under control. I believe that the Ministry of the Interior has chosen the right targets when it comes to combating hate speech and combating extremism. They are important in our society. However, I am concerned about whether this current package of measures, for example, is at all sufficient for the prevention of police activity. In fact, when it comes to preventive and preventive action, there is a need for cross-administrative cooperation between ministries, and when you ask the ministries about this, most of the time you only get an overview from their own ministry of how we are doing this and that. I would therefore like to see different ministries working together across industry boundaries thinking about how to catch people who are in need of preventive action when it comes to safety. — I will take the floor later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u9	Mr President! Here comes the special equipment for the police. These will certainly help here in the capital region and in the big cities anyway, but they will not help in the countryside. However, there are Pasi vehicles left behind in the countryside, which could be used as police tools if they existed. Minister, is there any way that we can ensure that in every province there are these special vehicles which have been left over from the abandoned garrison?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u10	Mr President! The police need sufficient personnel to investigate the clues, crimes and respond to the alarms. I would like to ask whether the additional resources allocated to the police go specifically to the staff's investigative resources, and whether there will be enough trained police in the next year. Mr President! I am very concerned about the ability of emergency centres to operate. There's a major human emergency if the 911 doesn't respond in time. I would like to ask if I am reading the budget correctly. Will the operational allocation for emergency centres be reduced by EUR 1 million next year? Mr President! Raising the refugee quota would be a way of helping the most vulnerable refugees, families, women, children. The refugee quota is a safe and controlled route away from the conflict, and it is incomprehensible that the quota is not ready to increase next year. I would like to ask the Minister: what do you think of this level of refugee quota?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u11	Irade the Talman! It is a great thing that police funds are being increased, that the government is now on the line not only of the SDP but also of the RKP. We have repeatedly called for this in our shadow budget. [Heckling] It is also a great thing to invest in emergency training to ensure that the service is available not only in both national languages but also in other languages, and I am pleased to see that the Minister has raised this in person many times. Could you just open up a little bit about how this is going to happen in concrete terms and how to ensure not only that education is adequate but also that the service is also available in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u12	Mr President! The previous government removed temporary residence permits from those asylum seekers who had received a negative decision who voluntarily refused to leave the country, and that decision did come at the Count's time, because Finland would have been a very attractive country if there had been a message that you could come here and not even need an asylum investigation — you can only say that you do not want to leave here. It would also lead to the futility of the work of the authorities. That is why I am a little concerned about the political positions that have called for this law to be restored. But I do believe that the refugee quota should be increased and could be increased, because I believe that aid should be targeted at those who need it, but not at those who say that they do not need protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u13	Mr President! It was really great to hear Minister Risikko say that less money is going to be spent on asylum seekers now. We all know that most of these asylum seekers who come to Finland come here through several safe countries where they would be able to apply for asylum. We also know that the majority of asylum seekers do not receive a residence permit from Finland but a decision to convert them. And thirdly, as former Minister Räsänen said, a large proportion of the people who receive this conversion decision will still remain here in Finland. Then, when we look at page 717 of this book, more than EUR 5 million will be given to these illegal residents, and then, on page 716 next door, about the same amount will be taken away from the rehabilitation of front veterans. Minister Risikko, what the government will do in the future in addition to this, so that Finland will no longer do so in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u14	Mr President! As the security situation has changed recently, the word and the concept of 'citizen disobedience' have emerged in the context of asylum policy. Of course, civil disobedience or even incitement to it must under no circumstances be tolerated. The law must be followed, and the authorities must be given peace of work. However, helping and hiding those who have received a negative asylum decision is still a daily matter in our country today, and they often move beyond the limits of the law, even though it is a matter of helping one’s neighbor. Where do you think, Minister, and under the law, is the limit of aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u15	Mr President! The internal and external security interface has long become quite difficult to detect. Civilian and military crisis management goes under the same heading. Finland has an exceptionally good reputation as a crisis management country, as a follow-up to peacekeeping efforts. We know that the debate is developing on how Finland's performance in this respect should be improved administratively and functionally. I would like to ask the Minister whether, during this term of government, there is still an opportunity to move forward on this issue, where the reputational factors and the international services of Finland are very important for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u16	Mr President! This situation of internal security has changed to a great extent, and it is great that the government now also reacts to this in its budget increases. The number of police officers, 7200, which has already been put forward in the opposition, has now been established. In the short term, the number of policemen will no longer be able to increase, because we have a full range of training places and additional training will only begin to bite down there in three years' time, so it would make sense, at least by our own actions, not to exert pressure where police resources are being used for something other than the nuclear activities for which it should be used. Since we know that these threats change shape and demand more and more police resources, I would therefore have asked the Minister how to resolve this now, for example, when, according to the impact assessments of this forthcoming amendment to the Alcohol Act, it takes 170 more person-years for the police to take care of these effects. How the Minister has thought that this can be resolved by the current
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u17	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister about the impact assessment of the budget for your administration. In recent years, there has been much talk of six-fold increase in the number of minor asylum seekers entering Finland. There have also been various cases where minors and pregnant women have been sent to countries whose safety is not necessarily guaranteed. I would have asked you how the impact assessment of children will be carried out in this budget of the Ministry of the Interior and in any case in these decisions, which I have mentioned. At least it is not written in this budget book which has been distributed to us that there should be an impact assessment on children or a gender impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u18	Let us stick to this minute’s response time, and as many as possible will get out loud.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u19	Mr President! Since the Budget Committee, there has been a discussion as to whether there is still room in this country to help a Christian neighbor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u22	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki, it is our job to comply with the laws that are laid down here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u25	Mr President! The Greens continue to provide incorrect information on asylum issues. For example, on Facebook on 27 August, Aalto wrote: "There are people in Finland who cannot be returned because they do not have the necessary travel documents and they cannot obtain them because of bureaucracy or lack of cooperation in the destination country." Well, this is not true, and if there were such people, Article 51(1) of the Aliens Act would grant them a temporary residence permit. Aalto is still at the A-studio on 31.8., Rural Future on 8.9., Press Club on 8.9. On 9 September, the UN Committee on the Prevention of Torture claimed that in 12 cases our solutions in these matters of return and asylum were incorrect. Well, this too is not true, as apparently Aalto already knows. I will now ask President Mikkos when Aalto is not here: Alexander Stubb
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u26	All right, I will give three more speeches to this debate, to the representatives of Essayah, Savio and Rinne, and then to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u27	Mr President! In answer: Christian churches and congregations have clearly instructed with their church security instructions how to help people to comply with the law. That there should be no doubt about this in this Chamber. Instead, I would have liked to ask the Minister how this fight against violent radicalisation on the one hand and extremism on the other can be improved, because it is quite often a question of how the flow of information between the authorities plays. Has special attention now been paid to this, has there been a review of these processes, and is there a clear increase in resources for this? All in all, the Christian Democrats are extremely pleased with these budgetary efforts: both to speed up asylum processes, to provide additional funding for the judiciary and also to increase the budget for the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u28	Mr President! Indeed, the budget has put forward additional appropriations to promote internal security, and police funding has been increased, among other things. This is, of course, positive from the point of view of internal security, and for that I thank the government. Unfortunately, however, Finland's internal security situation is not nearly as good as it was before, and it is not only improved by increases in appropriations. In the early part of September, the Chief Staff of the Defence Forces issued instructions recommending that conscripts alone avoid moving in the dark dressed as soldiers. In the same context, the garrison was invited to use joint holiday transports. A few weeks earlier, at the end of August, the Rescue Department of the Ministry of the Interior had issued a recommendation that the use of uniforms and other emergency services codes should be avoided when travelling on public transport or on foot. I'd like to ask the Home Secretary what's going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u29	Mr President! Mr Räsänen raised an important concern about how the number of policemen will be sufficient in the future, when that increase in education starts to bite in three years' time, and we ourselves will increase the need for the number of police officers if the proposals as such go through alcohol legislation, for example. I ask Minister Risiko: is there a risk that the fight against financial crime and the like will now be left to the mop because the need for the fight against terrorism and internal security, at this level, requires more resources? At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior, Mr Risiko, that when we went through these reports on security and defence, there was concern, for example, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that this broad concept of security was completely excluded. In my view, the main problems facing Finnish society today are exclusion and inequality. How do you see this side of the government's budget now realised?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u30	Secretary Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u31	Mr President! A lot of questions came up. I'll pick up the second. Thank you very much for these comments. The reference was made here to the fact that we have an internal security report and now we have a strategy going on, and that is precisely because long-term planning is needed. It is important for such long-term planning to be able to take place that stability of resources is needed, and I am of the opinion that it is absolutely necessary for that to happen. And when I was asked about my position, that is 'yes', but it requires the support of all the political parties and groups in this matter. Of course, increasing the number of training is one of those important issues, since we currently have the 7200 police officers and only 17 unemployed according to the latest information. So we don't have that reserve. That is why we must also invest in education. These levels of education have been raised, but these decisions are always made every year for this very reason that when there is no long-term planning opportunity to do so, then every year, and it is now important that this particular training case should lead to such a more long-term planning. I believe that this government has now taken a step towards that more long-term planning. The question was whether there should be a parliamentary group. There is no need for a parliamentary group to do so when we know that long-term planning also means increasing the number of training and in good time, because it is relatively long training. Then... [Interjection from left] As far as the equipment is concerned, cooperation with the Defence Forces is very much to be welcomed and is also being carried out. All However, defence equipment is not suitable for police use, and that is why we must also renew our own equipment. But I am in favour of good cooperation. Prevention is very important. After all, Finland is a country of such radicalisation and the prevention of extremism, which has done so over the years, and it has even been reported on by the world's millennia, and that is a good thing. Resource allocation: It is important that they are targeted at the right things, and when the money is scarce and the resources are scarce, that is why there must be powers of action, there must be performance, knowledge, but there must also be money to hire those policemen. The question was what the alcohol law, for example, would accomplish. The Alcohol Act brings a need for the number of policemen. That is quite clear, and it has also been said directly in the bill. With regard to the fight against financial crime, I say that we also have it as one of our priorities. It is important that someone else should not then eat those resources and focus on the other, because it is a bit like the act of covering fools, that is to say, it is important that they do exactly as Mr Rinne said. Let me remind you, however, that money does not solve this alone, but rather has to be a good division of labour. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u34	We're going to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u35	Mr President! It is very important for this internal security, and it is important and necessary that police budgets have been increased, just as the Social Democrats have suggested in their own options. And this amount of police training will also be very important in the future. That is why I, at least, would not consider planning beyond the parliamentary term as a bad thing, so that this joint parliamentary work would be well founded. President! It was important that the Minister also acknowledged the problem that now, with this alcohol law, the government itself is, by its own actions, also increasing the burden of police work, the need for police numbers, the need for police funds. I now have a great fear that for this reason too, even though more of these welcome resources have come to fruition. Now that Minister Risikko has admitted this problem with the alcohol law, I am asking the government parties and Minister Risiko and everyone: should we not be doing this right now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u36	Mr President! The security environment has changed rapidly. The interfaces between internal and external security are also blurred: terrorist threats, school attacks, other types of violence are unfortunately more commonplace. Thank you, Minister Risiko, for taking up this changed situation with determination. A total of 50 million will be allocated to the police and the protection police — 44 to the police and 6 million to the protection police — and the equipment will also be renewed to respond to these new, different threats. I very much welcome it. The intelligence law is one part of this security, and it is hoped that no one will stop it. And then the increase in the number of cops. There's got to be a plan for how we're gonna be able to pick up the policemen themselves in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u37	Mr President! Many speakers have expressed concern about the number of police officers and, more importantly, about the lack of police officers. It is touching to note that the whole hall from right to left and from left to right is of the opinion that there are currently and apparently in the future too few holders of the badge. This training takes between three and four years — depending on the sector in which it is going to separate — and the number of candidates is such that we cannot at present increase the number of policemen by increasing the amount of money. Now I ask the Minister: when the ministry and the government have increased the budget for the police but there are no more jobs to spell out from the hat, is it possible to spend this money on overtime in such a way as to ensure, constantly, an adequate number of police officers in these emergency missions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u38	Mr President! There has been a lot of debate in this debate about what the number of policemen should be, and it is important that the government has now been able to increase the budget there. But there is also concern about those sparsely populated areas: there are areas where even the only police patrol is possibly retiring, and when the police are not going to be unemployed like the twenty, then of course there is concern about how the public's sense of security will be protected if police patrols are not even visible on the village tracks, in that picture. I would have liked to ask the Minister: how is it also ensured that police officers are brought into sparsely populated areas? And secondly, Finland has very good experiences of cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja. It has helped these international border regions, such as those bordering Sweden and Norway, but there are still things that do not work so well, also depending on legislation. How much Nordic cooperation do you have in this respect, and is there anything that Finland should do in legislation so that this cooperation with the authorities is also international?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u39	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Zyskowicz, that was investigative journalism. According to a group survey, young people aged 19 to 36 estimated that their personal safety was reduced as well as Finland’s safety. Professors Jarno Limnéll and Jari Rantapelkonen find the message sent by young people extremely worrying. According to the Protection Police, the jihadist underworld is already rooted in Finland. According to Supo, radical Islamist communities live by their own standards and rules. If internal security is weakened, it means that politicians have failed in the core task of security. Would it be time to look very critically at what decisions have been taken wrong or what decisions have been left to be taken because this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u40	Mr President! There was reference to the resources to combat the shadow economy and to the fight against financial crime. As far as ensuring tax revenue is concerned, preventing tax evasion, reducing aggressive tax planning and so on, it is of course a matter for the Ministry of Finance, but if we look at the resources of the Ministry of the Interior and the police, as the Minister pointed out, there is a constant balance between where resources are directed. Measures other than resources are also needed, legal changes are needed, including the extension of the use of the tax number to other sectors in addition to the construction sector. The use of the tax number in the construction sector has clearly reduced the use of the shadow economy, economic crime, and it is urgent to extend it. Mr Orpo did not reply here yesterday in the debate as to whether or not the tax number should be extended, but I very much encourage the Minister for the Interior to squeeze Mr Orpo out of the sleeve and to demand that this issue, which has been a little on the agenda, should move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u41	Mr President! Professor Limnéll of Aalto University's study on the safety of Finnish young people was published, and yes, young people say that the greatest security threat is precisely the division and inequality between us Finns. I think this was a pretty clear view for young people that this social inequality that is taking place is in fact the main basis which also creates such radicalisation and is also a very dangerous basis for extremists and extremists. That is why I ask Minister Risiko, when I also know you as an expert in social welfare and health care: are you now going to press on with the fact that this future internal security programme will involve this social cohesion, social justice and this cutting-off of the cycle of inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u42	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Risiko for doing well and keeping safety at the forefront. With regard to this number of police officers, I would like to be assured that, when it is said that 7200, is it so that the number of staff of the protection police is not included in the figure, which means that the total would be about 7500. This seems to have been the case in the past. Then there is the question of the safety of police work. We cannot deny photography, it is part of freedom of speech, but what do we think about when, in the sense of persecution, bullying, police officers are photographed in a way that includes family members, wives, children, child day care places, schools, names, and then these in the sense of bullying, in the sense of pressure? I understand that such systematic bullying has taken place at the Railway Market, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u43	Mr President! The situation of internal security in Finland has changed rapidly and has been reacted to, as can be seen from this budget proposal. There will certainly be a need for additional police resources, as will the Border Guard, because, for example, in securing the green border with the current occupation — even though now in the Ilomats region of my municipality or in the region of North Karelia and in the border counties in general — the small number of occupations there have been quite clear challenges in recent years. Hopefully, there will be some relief. But I ask Minister Risiko: Last week there was information about the Ilomants police station — including the Outokumpu police station — that it is virtually being abolished by a procedure in which posts are transferred to Joensuu or Kite. In practice, this means that these stations will cease, even though the Minister of the Interior, when he is Minister of the Interior, decided that these stations will remain. Local people there in the municipalities of the border region are very concerned about the loss of police visibility. However, that does not mean that we can get help from the Border Guard, for example, because they have their hands full. What are we going to do about this because we're going to do it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u44	Mr President! I agree with these thanks here for the rapid increase in appropriations. However, the continuity of funding is very volatile — or I mean, the overall assessment of this funding, as the Minister said, and this should be a longer-term solution. The implementation of these objectives, as stated here in the budget book, really requires clear funding. More resources are needed for the investigation so that the police can do their own work and then bring the cases to the prosecutor's office and the courts. The Police Advisory Board has suggested that the real need for police officers is around 7500 police officers, so that in the current changing security environment the police can carry out their duties. We are still a long way from this objective, and I would like to ask the Minister if we are going to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u45	Mr President! As Finland is the rule of law, asylum seekers who have received a negative decision have the right to legal aid and, in addition, to appeal against a judgment at different court levels. The consequence of this is that they remain in the country, so to speak, as an empty pledge, without doing anything at all. Minister, has it ever been thought that their professional skills would also be clarified and temporary work permits granted, that they would be able to work if they found a job? There are also asylum seekers who really want to integrate even though a negative decision has come. This should not even be a problem at the moment, because your colleague, Mr Lindström, has already told us that he does not know what he is doing with the 150 million employment money that has been budgeted for this year. Then there is the second point, Minister: what measures are to be taken to deal with this common pain point, i.e. the borders of Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u46	Mr President! The internal security situation has indeed changed. The government's going to stabilize the police to 7200. At the moment, the police are retiring at a faster pace than the new police officers are preparing. This year, the number of training places is still at 400, but the problem is that there are not enough qualified applicants for the full number of study places. Similarly, not everyone who applied for school will graduate. I ask the Minister: how can we solve this problem so that we can reach the 7200, even theoretically? In my opinion, this relaxation of these criteria for training places cannot at least be the solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u47	Mr President! Thank you to the government for its strong commitment to internal security, and I also thank Mr Kiuru, you raised the issue of the loss of confidence in the police. It is true that police work is being disrupted and publicly harassed and, at the very least, these defamations continue to take place. Yesterday, Mr Tolvasen and I met students from the higher class of the Police College of Applied Sciences, future police chiefs. We discussed a number of different topics, but also this civilian crisis management and how the Finnish police administration has used the experience and information gained in the international context, and according to the information we have received, there is apparently little. Indeed, the operating environment has changed permanently and internationalised. How can we make better use of the experience of Finnish policemen working in international civilian crisis management missions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u48	Mr President! The EU's most important external border is the external border of Finland, the external border between Finland and Russia. There is no traffic, which we do not have awareness of in Finland. On the other hand, the external borders do not hold out elsewhere in Europe, and there have been problems in different parts of Europe, in the form of an avalanche of immigration, among other things. What kind of debate are you currently having on the EU tables, Madam Minister, on the improvement of the EU's external borders? Would Finland perhaps have something to offer on this side to give our own advice and lessons to keep the EU's external borders, and do you have any idea of the measures that the countries of southern Europe intend to take to control their own borders? After all, it is obvious that, in a common Europe, external borders cannot be in a different position than they are at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u49	President! During the last parliamentary term, a controversial and questionable decision was taken to abolish the mobile police, and criticism of this decision is still being heard from the field. I ask the Minister: to what extent will the ministry monitor and draw conclusions on the changes in the number of performances of mobile police in a new organisation and on a wider scale? To what extent has this closure decision been subject to an impact assessment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u50	Mr President! It would be good for the Minister to find out, as Mr Kiuru did here, how many policemen there really are. We're having a little trouble counting this real number of cops now that it's going to take an addition, and while I was looking at the book, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u51	Mr President! As has been heard here, the security environment has changed and the response to these challenges depends on resources. There must be performing and capable hands, and the police patrol will eventually be the one that will act when the situation strikes. In Turku, this was concrete: the act was stopped 3 minutes after the announcement. This showed that we have qualified and competent authorities. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case everywhere in Finland. Finland is a long country. For example, in my childhood municipality, both police officers are retiring at the turn of the year and no one has been promised a replacement. Is it possible that a whole county is left without a police officer? This is a very worrying issue in very few regions. The fact is that the threshold for contacting the police will also rise if it is known that it does not exist at all. So here's what I'm hoping for, Risiko's cure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u52	President! Representative Eestilä here described very well the fact that there are, indeed, 175 police officers in that protection police force this year and next year 195. This has to be included in the total, so let's get up to 7,400, a little bit. And now that very good priorities have been added to this section and the police and the protection police — a little less than 3 million for the protection police and 24 million more for the police — I would say that, in fact, the police are still 10 million behind that level of 2016. On the other hand, of course, when we do not have policemen out of work at the moment, I would like to see further additions being made to that protection police side, because there are professionals in many fields that they are hiring. Almost half is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u53	I would like to give two more replies, to the representatives of Arhinmäki and Salolainen, and then to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u54	Mr President! Congressman Rantakangas here claimed that I was instigating civil disobedience. He wouldn't listen, even a little bit from the beginning, what I said. I said that we should look at things historically in this day too. What do the names Mahatma Gandhi, Nelson Mandela, Rosa Parks, Martin Luther King say to you? All of them have fought injustice by means of civil disobedience, by means of non-violent means, and have brought about a significant change in society. Changes have also been made in Finnish society through civil disobedience. Without taking a stand on, for example, Eugen Schauman, who has even named the park in Kulosaari, he must have been interpreted in a different way during the period of autonomy from when the name of the park was given. Mr President! A historical and far-reaching view of hope in this Chamber, too, and not just
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u55	Mr. Speaker! Below us are the evasive and protective facilities of the Parliament. However, Parliament has never practiced the use of these shelters, going there and working there. This is very unusual in that all such security issues are currently on the table and are being rehearsed for them. I think we should practice this sometime. But the question is problematic: if it is done in such a way as to cause concern to the citizens, then it has gone wrong. This must be done in such a way that a plan is drawn up which, at some point in the future, for example at some point in the coming year, will take place in such a way that there will be no sensational situation that will make the citizens nervous. But there are indeed expensive facilities built here, and they should be rehearsed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u56	Secretary Risikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u57	Mr President! Thank you again for the good comments. Just like that, when the police staff have been asked who is counting the contribution, I am counting the cops in the 7200, but the others — because there are many other professionals — are not included in that figure. With regard to the crisis management centre, Mr Kanerva asked about crisis management in general: I personally believe that crisis management is one of the diamonds that is, you can say, an uncut diamond. And investing in it would now be of paramount importance, because it could be turned into an export product. There are clearly plans in this government to get such a comprehensive crisis management centre of expertise in Finland, where we would also put more civil and military crisis management together functionally, for example. This is it. But then there was reference to the activities and appropriations of the reception centres. It is true that those costs do indeed exist there, but I would ask you to note that they have been calculated from there — thanks to the increased activity, but also to the fact that the services of the reception centre are being used by fewer people at the moment — but there are still some. And that is where I listed in my speech where the budget of the reception centre, when it has been prolonged for a number of reasons, is still needed at the moment. Then there was the question of this renewal of the asylum application — you are quite right, it has now been taken up. And this is what we have here. The Reception Directive requires that you be allowed to apply for a new asylum, but that cannot be the case in the world. That such a restriction is now being made, and we are now looking at what this directive allows, and that work is going on. Then there was the talk of legal aid and court proceedings at different courts. After all, the Ministry of Justice now received more resources to enable administrative rights to deal more quickly with these and have resources. Legal aid also comes from there, i.e. the Ministry of Justice is making an assessment of this very issue of legal aid, whether it is sufficient and whether the legislative changes that have been made have been sufficient or still have to be made. I would like to thank the previous Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Räsä, for being adamant that when temporary residence permits were removed, it was the right decision. It was one attraction, and no other country would like that either. That's a very strange residence permit, isn't it? It is rather strange here on the part of the opposition that it should be returned. It would take meaning and reasonableness from this whole system of ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u60	Now, exceptionally, I will give one reply to Mr Arhinmäki, and then we will move on to agriculture and forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u61	Mr President! I have greatly appreciated Minister Risikko and his work, but this time your speech was like the speech by Chief Police Officer Kolehminen this weekend. Where have I, Minister Risikko, said that resisting a police officer is the same thing as loving or helping a neighbor? I have genuinely raised here the concern that is widespread in Finnish society when it is said that helping undocumented people must be criminalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u64	One more reply, 1 minute, Mr Risikko, and then we will move on to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u65	Mr President! It is pointless for us to discuss this now, because we do not seem to have a common understanding of this now. Now, one more time, I'm going to say: Help is allowed, it is so - called love of neighbor, also the Bible says. Our education is to help a person in distress. But I hope that in this society, in this rule of law, it also means that there will be no opposition from the authorities. The police themselves have given us the wish of the Ministry of the Interior to do something about this now that, in this particular social situation where we are, they are allowed to do their job. Nowhere has it been said, Mr Arhinmäki, that aid is criminalised — nowhere. You're twisting the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u68	All right, now we're moving on to the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. Minister Leppä, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u69	Mr. Speaker! Security is also at stake in this administrative sector when we talk about food, food security, energy, the sustainable use of domestic, Finnish, renewable resources and the safety it brings to all of us, every Finnish — that is, a good continuation of this main point. President! The growth of the economy, which is currently taking place in Finland, has been a major factor in the bioeconomy and its positive growth, which has been quite central to this current situation and its emergence. For example, there are a number of investments in the forest industry that are ongoing and planned across Finland. Forest industry products are exported to the Chinese market, for example. Indeed, there is a great deal to be said about carbon sink exports as urbanised urban centres and growing cities build Finnish wood and increasingly use Finnish wood-based products to replace the use of non-renewable resources. The same has happened in the food sector. During this summer and early autumn there have been numerous new plants, new investments have been introduced in Finland and our competitiveness has thus been renewed and enhanced. With the government's key project efforts, we have managed to open up new export markets for our high added value products, especially in Asia. With growth elsewhere, we have managed to close the gap caused by the closure of the Russian market. New export permits are constantly being negotiated, the last time being yesterday with the Chinese Minister. More and more Finnish companies have gone out to the world to try out their wings for the sale of clean Finnish food. In this respect, the Ministry and the government have invested very strongly in this cooperation between the authorities and in helping the authorities so that companies can also open up markets in the Far East. Unfortunately, this very positive development, which we have now had, has not reflected in the purse of a Finnish farmer. Profitability has continued to deteriorate in most sectors for too long. In a poor profitability situation, the difficult fall of harvest makes the situation more and more difficult in many farms. The key to improving profitability is the fairer functioning of the food market. At present, the price of products is not fairly distributed between operators in the food chain. In this respect, preparations will continue within the government, in various ministries and in particular in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Most of the flows of growth in the bioeconomy originate in Finnish rural areas. In order to safeguard growth, we must therefore take very good care of its vitality, and this applies to all sectors of government. President! With regard to next year's budget, as agreed in the budget debate, a total amount of EUR 21 million will be earmarked for national compensatory allowances for the remainder of the agricultural crisis package. This means that next year we will be able to halve the cut planned for the compensatory allowance, that is to say, the cut will be, and that is the reality that it will be, EUR 5 per hectare — as planned, it would have been more than this. In addition, it was agreed to allocate EUR 3.5 million to the promotion of food exports and exports. Technically, these transfers will be made in the context of the amending budget. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health's section includes EUR 1 million for the relief of compensation for replacement payments and EUR 1 million for the early transmission of payments by the Farmers' Pension Agency. These are small but extremely important inputs to support farmers' survival. Mr President! As part of the budget, the Government also proposes to amend the transfer tax Act by abolishing the transfer tax in the event of the establishment of a limited liability company by the trader or the agricultural and forestry operator. This decision supports and encourages investors and growing farms. All in all, the current situation on the side of food production, on the side of primary production, is not positive, but it is the vision of the future that goes with it. Now we must be able to act in every way so that we can overcome this very difficult situation so that we also have the enthusiasm of young entrepreneurs and those entering the sector to keep us from making investments. We also need to make new investments in primary production, so that in future we will have security of supply, our chances of good food production. In the final analysis, the question is where these jobs are located in this sector, whether they are located in Finland or somewhere outside Finland. That is the final point, in addition to what I started with, in addition to the safety issue that cannot be overemphasized. Yes, different security of supply professionals have also been concerned about this. This is another message we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u70	We now have the opportunity to ask for answers to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u71	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. You've done a really good job with the Treasury Department once you've cut this LFA cut in half. This is an important point, because it is precisely in this situation that farmers would not have any additional costs. What is also important is that funding was provided for export promotion, and what the Minister did not mention is that the conversion into biogas cars contributes to the vitality of the countryside. The important thing is that we made a small additional contribution to the relief and also that we received money added to Metsoo from the Ministry of the Environment. There has also been a debate in this Chamber on forest biodiversity on many occasions, and this is how it can be safeguarded. My real question to the Minister is now that the crop situation is so bad because of the weather: do you have anything?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u72	Mr President! It is good that at the moment we have a government that understands the questions of Finnish forestry and agriculture well and cooperates. I would like to ask the Minister three questions: The first is partly related to food safety and food exports. In my opinion, meat that has been produced on an antibiotic-free basis without antibiotics, and which has been processed nearby, is worth pursuing. Can we, Minister, move forward with this immediate slaughter so that, for years now, articles and other things will not interfere with this development, so that people can actually get to work? The second question concerns access to finance. Today it is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to obtain funding. The reason is the focus of decision-making in the banking world and the prudential rules of banks. What can be done to ensure that farmers receive funding? And the third concerns the birds of the forest. For several years they have been dangerously low. Of course, the weather is one reason, but one reason is predators and certain predators and other birds. Can we, Minister, together do a programme to find out the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u73	Mr President! Your portfolio, Minister, also includes fisheries, and it affects a very large number of Finns. In Finland there are 1.6 million leisure fishermen. Fishing is a very important hobby for all age groups, a recreational hobby, and it is up to us to take care of it. President! However, this budget includes a legislative proposal to increase the cost of fisheries management by 15 % — 15 %, which amounts to almost EUR 1.5 million more for the leisure fishermen in our country. And what surprises me is that on the basis of this budget book it can be concluded that this accumulation is directly directed to the compensation of the owners of the water area. The problem here is that the use of these compensations is not monitored in any way, so we cannot be sure that these additional resources will be used to safeguard or protect the sustainability of fish stocks. Can you now, Minister, tell us where these accumulated resources are to be directed and how we will secure the important fishing activity of our citizens who do not own the waters of our country?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u74	Mr President! The main resource of the agricultural enterprise is the agricultural entrepreneur himself, which is easily forgotten by many. Sometimes, however, mental or financial resources may be put to the test and help is needed, especially after such a wet summer. Farmers' Pension Institution In 2017, she received an additional financial contribution to help farmers in difficulty. Mela’s assistance is targeted both at support measures directly affecting farmers’ survival and at long-term, preventive well-being work. I think it is very important that such projects have been made for the survival of farmers in their important work. EUR 2 million will also be allocated to the main category of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for next year to support the survival of farmers. Half of the amount will be allocated to the relief of payments for replacement relief and the other half to the Retirement Farmers' Pension Facility project. Minister, are there other means of support, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u75	Mr President! Now that my group here is nothing but Uotila, I doubt he will be gossiping at the group meeting that I commend the Minister for his good openings. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u76	Mr President! First of all, I must also thank the Minister for his good work, but I would like to say from the outset that it is, of course, a disappointment that we are cutting back on LFA support. The operation is 33 million, and we can read it directly from the budget book. It is, of course, a good thing to be able to make up for this, to mitigate this with the money from the surgical crisis, but no new money it is, Mr Kalmari. This is already the promised crisis money for farmers. Now it is patched up, used in this way, and it is of course good, but the surgery it is anyway. That is the most important thing for farmers now, of course, that we get something out of the market, that we can make the food chain work. The Minister has been on the table several times, raising this issue, and although this debate is now on the state budget, perhaps the Minister can say something about this new food legislation, which can make it easier and better for farmers to obtain money from the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u77	Mr President! First of all, the budget for the administrative sector is well done. This will support, among other things, farms in the worst economic conditions with 11 million support, add some millions to the Metso programme — it is really good — to get three big bioeconomy projects started with 49 million investments, making domestic production profitable and then increasing our trading balance, and making the blue bioeconomy project move forward. But I would like to raise one point here, and that is the promotion of fisheries. There are so many points of view here: The management of our fishing waters must be in good condition, we must make investments in fishing tourism — it is certainly of interest to foreigners — and then we must push the export of fish products to the world. It is worth paying attention to these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u78	Mr President! This problem of profitability is a common concern of the nation. The Government has set itself its strategic goal and focus on the bioeconomy and its clean solutions. I would certainly raise the strategic objective of livelihoods for farmers in particular. This distress call, which has been made clear in many of the speeches, is no small thing. For all of us, Finnish food is important. Perhaps the dialogue between the Finnish food chain and the producer chain should be stepped up. Perhaps the Minister could play a key role in leading this debate so that this disproportion can be removed there. I would now like the Minister to make some comments on how we are going to proceed in this matter on a practical basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u79	Mr President! Minister Leppä well described the situation in the agricultural and forestry sector. We have a very competent minister. In the forestry sector, large-scale industrial investments have been made and are being made. The sector is in a strong mood both for more traditional products and for new products in the bioeconomy. This is an excellent thing for the whole of Finland and for all Finns. As far as the forestry sector is concerned, we need to safeguard the conditions under which the sector operates, and that is what this budget does for its part. But while there are many good signs and actions of sustainable growth in the bioeconomy, the central part of bioeconomy, agriculture and agriculture, is not doing well. According to yesterday’s news, food is cheap in Finland. I'm sure this is due to a long-term decline. The result of the decline has been that not all parts of the chain get along with their work — even though the workload has increased
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u80	Mr President! Minister! Investments in and promotion of food exports are of paramount importance for improving the position of primary production and producer. Selecting the location of the Food Agency in Seinäjoki is also important. I would like to ask the Minister: is this organisational reform a crossroads where it is possible to re-evaluate the organisational criteria for food exports in such a way that there is something to be developed? Secondly, the situation of an entrepreneur, a farmer who earns a living, is one hundred per cent different from that of a person who earns an income. Now that it has been decided to continue the solidarity tax, whether this abolition of the transfer tax should, as it were, be seen
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u81	Mr President! The Minister gave a good overview of the way in which the budget was built, and there was indeed expertise and also concern about the way in which the government is today taking a stand on the business of the agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs. A few things: How can we make the food market work in real terms, so that value added can be produced to the person who also does the most in the chain? We have to find the right weight for it. That is what Mr Viljanen has already asked. Then one thing related to the Government's decision on the principle of summer 16, where government procurement committed itself to the use of food produced in a domestic way: In what way could some steps now be taken to bring this into the municipalities as well? Local government budgets are now being made for next year, and this would be a key issue for the regions and municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u82	Mr President! I agree with the honourable Members' thanks for having an excellent and good minister. Thank you for that. In the current year, EUR 7.9 million has been earmarked for fraud, and next year the amount of damage and compensation will be increased to EUR 8.45 million. Thank you for that. Good for that. But when the damage is estimated to be at least EUR 10 million, this uncovered money will remain. When damage occurs and the State does not compensate for the damage, there may be reason, reason or presumption to refer to the civil disobedience mentioned above in the Ministry of the Interior case, i.e., if these damage is not compensated, could it be that, in the name of civil disobedience, citizens are going to resolve this issue? My question to the Minister is: how can the government act in such a way that the authorities decide that citizens do not have to take justice into their own hands?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u83	Mr President! Minister, the purity of Finnish nature is known worldwide. Finnish food, natural dishes, berries, mushrooms, game is highly valued around the globe. The export market for Finnish products is certainly large. After all, the Ministry has done a good job of clearing the way for Finnish producers and food producers, especially in the Far East, the Middle East and elsewhere, especially at a time when exports to Russia are not very great due to sanctions. However, it seems that this increase in food exports could be much greater and that there have been difficulties in starting up. I would like to ask the Minister: what is your view of whether this potential will now be fully exploited, and what more could be done to bring more Finnish food and products to the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u84	Mr President! As we have all seen from the weather of the day, the harvest on the farmer's field is quite slow, and it also reflects the atmosphere that is today in that agricultural field. However, thank you to the Minister for his commendable work for the farmers. Compensation for natural handicaps is a good thing, small but very important. In my view, the abolition of the tax on transfers of funds also means that the rational conversion of farms, and hence the growth and development of businesses, is much better than it has been so far. Now there are no artificial obstacles to that either. However, I would like to ask the Minister a different question, such as the Norm. Agriculture is a highly regulated sector, and I would like to ask the Minister how this piece of legislation is going to proceed, whether it will remain as fast as it is, and how to prevent a new standard coming into the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u85	Värderade Herr Talman! Åtminstone lokalt har de skador som rovdjur förorsakar blivit ett problemm, vilket också ledamot Hongisto var inne på. Gårdsbesöken av varg har ökat, till exempel i Västra Nyland och också i Österbotten, ganska dramatiskt faktiskt under det senasteåret.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u86	Mr President! To begin with, like Mrs Tuppurainen, I too would like to express my concern that fishing is an important hobby and that these fees should not be increased. But, Mr President, I asked to speak because I would like to say a few words about animal welfare, which is also part of this section. In my opinion, the competitive edge of Finnish agriculture and the competitive edge of Finnish society as a whole is ethics and that our food is clean and ethically produced, and it is therefore very important that animal welfare is given real attention and that our legislation is ambitious and forward-looking. There has now been a great deal of concern in the field of non-governmental organisations and among people interested in animal welfare that what is now coming under this new animal welfare law. It should be quick. And here, when we talk about the budget, there are two things I would like to mention: control and many other things need more resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u87	Mr President! First of all, I would like to join in the praise that there will be good ministers from Pertunmaa, as well as good parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u88	Mr President! Mr. Secretary of Food! It is good to continue with this last speech. In March, Parliament discussed the food policy report, which I believe is now in the implementation phase. It has many really good and ambitious objectives, such as improving the competence, profitability and productivity of the domestic resource-based food system and supporting the food sector in such a way that Finnish food attracts consumers in Finland and abroad. I would now like to ask: what is the timetable for this programme, how has this aspect been resourced, and how is the programme to be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u89	President! The budget on which this debate is based creates the basic conditions for the food industry to continue to function and produce the result that citizens expect. But how will the minister succeed? The next few days and weeks will determine what weather conditions will be like in Finland. Last year, when EUR 35 million was added to the additional budget for specific exceptional reasons and when the increase in both the heating oil tax and the property tax burden the food economy, if these airs continue to be so exceptional, there will be a certain situation. So I ask the Minister: will you then be prepared to offer relief to farmers who are in a difficult situation at a later stage in the budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u90	Minister Leppä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u91	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent greetings, very united ones. It's always good to hear them. I will start with this food market. All those who spoke felt that something should be done about this and that it should be done about it. This preparation is now under way within the government and will then be announced at the time of completion, during this year and this autumn anyway. The Food Policy Report, and in particular its commendable response to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, also underlined this in a very strong way in its own efforts. This is an important issue, not only for Finland, but it has been discussed several times in Europe during my mandate. This is a very important issue, and that is where we must be able to make progress. Unfortunately, on this point I cannot yet tell you what those means are, but we will certainly return to them. President! It was good that both Metso funding and the promotion of biogas were brought up here. They are important issues and good signals for the cross-sectoral promotion of rural business, as are the markets for local slaughter, antibiotic-free, hormone-free meat, and the promotion of the domestic market for small slaughterhouses. This is also related to the norm that we have been doing, and it is going on all the time. Its goal must be "one in, two out", i.e. that they are genuinely able to decrease and not increase. That is the absolute principle that we have with this. It is quite clear that this kind of food safety cannot be imitated by just any other countries except Finland. This is so unique in the world that we must also be able to do better in terms of exports, and we in the government have made quite a significant contribution to it. It's our top priority. And it is also good to communicate the importance of cooperation between food business operators, both for small and large operators. Cooperation will be better and more effective in exporting and finding new markets, especially in large markets in the Far East. I strongly encourage greater cooperation in this regard. And that report by liquidator Ilkka Mäkelä underlined the primary importance of food exports, and he also reflected on the fact that what prevents Finnish operators from simultaneously exporting different products with the same efforts, such as products from the forest industry and the food industry. There is nothing to prevent it, and in that sense we need cooperation, a strong one, in order to make progress. President! For a few questions, the answer is yes. Representative Tuppurainen, fish management fee: Indeed, it will rise and will be presented for an increase of EUR 6. The same applies to the game-keeping levy. It is also proposed to be increased by EUR 6. There are very different reasons for this. The reason for the fisheries management fee is that we are constantly, constantly, reducing the number of people who have paid us. The number of people who have been paid is constantly decreasing, that is, our accumulation is decreasing, and that responsibility for the management of the fishing grounds is now the responsibility of the owners. [Department : Pensioners pay! ] It is true, Mr Nylund, that these additions and adjustments are not new money, but unallocated crisis money which is now being used to significantly reduce and patch up this planned cut. It's obvious. It must be recognised and recognised. Strategic objective to improve profitability:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u92	All right, now is the chance to take another debatable round, and it will be started by Mrs Anttila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u93	President! There has been a very broad consensus in the debate here that the farmer is currently in a major crisis of profitability. I know that the Minister is doing all he can for it, but we have to succeed together because there can be no such situation that, in the future, climate change will make the situation that food will become a crying shortage and then food will no longer be replaced to the extent that it is at present, then, given the security of supply aspect, we must be able to save the Finnish producer. I know that the Minister is working very hard on that. I would like to remind you of one debate on the beginning of EU membership, which explains some of this situation. It was agreed at the time that national aid would be paid, and I know that the slaughterhouses took part in it, but it took an even greater part of the trade. I remember very well that when it was said in the debate that direct aid is now being paid to you, trade said that we will take our share of it. That is why we are in this situation that the market is not functioning normally and that we can only have exports if we have profitable production. Investing in it is good, but first profitability
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u94	Mr President! The first is the increase in fishing fees raised by the Minister. I am in the same line as Mr Leppä, and I do not see this increase of EUR 6 per year in any way as a mega-class problem. But I would draw attention to the fact that perhaps greater concern lies in the fact that the revenue generated as a result of the increased levy, estimated at EUR 1.4 million, is being entirely redirected to compensation for the owners of the waters and not to improving the conditions for fisheries and fisheries management. I do see some discretion here. But I would also like to ask about this issue, which has already been raised by Mr Hongisto: the fraud and, more importantly, what the representative raised — whether it was the representative of the RKP — the prevention of this. There are half a million people here to prevent and control damage, and we already know that money runs out every year. However, we know from the experts at the Game Centre that, for example, installing powerful electrical skills would be a very effective means of prevention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u95	Mr President! A lot is happening in the bioeconomy. The forest industry invests well. Thank you also to the Minister for Metso money and these food origin markings. During the time of Minister Lehä and during this government, they have now improved significantly by their own national regulation to make meat and milk products compulsory this year. The EU has not acted on this in the way that Minister Leppä has done, and for that I thank you. Finland is also preparing these designations of origin for restaurants and cafes. I would like to ask Minister Leppa: what is the timetable for the entry into force of this regulation? Fishing has also been mentioned. We are sanctioned in Finland to hunt for protected other animals. The sanctions are tough if you shoot a sedated animal, but criminal fishermen can fish and, in fact, fishermen cannot even interfere in the backpack. I'd ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u96	Mr President! You, Minister, are very well profiled on the issues of promotion and export of agricultural products. This is a good thing. A total of EUR 5 million has already been allocated for this purpose through Mavi and Makera, and now an additional EUR 3.5 million is coming, that is to say EUR 8.5 million of state money. I would like to ask you: are companies sure to come along, and what is the industry's contribution to this, what scale could it be in millions of euros? How is this activity organized and managed wisely in a short time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u97	Mr President! It is appropriate to thank the Minister for his good work. We have worked very well together to ensure the production of domestic food and the profitability of agriculture, and I believe that this good cooperation will continue and together we will take Finland to the future agricultural period of the EU, which will certainly be challenging if the Brexis are implemented. But there are two things: First of all, I would like to return to this animal welfare law raised by Mr Viitanen. It is extremely important that we have an ambitious animal welfare law that meets the expectations we have with regard to ethical food production. Now, Minister, can you tell us whether the animal is going to have absolute value and whether the farrowing cages will be banned, whether the parsins will be banned and what kind of transition period? President! I would also like to ask when I say hello to the reindeer husbandry area how you intend to renew reindeer husbandry. Is it becoming a legal update that is sorely expected? This is also a budgetary issue, because on an annual basis, car compensation alone is going to cost EUR 12 million as a result of the reindeer sector. Are you going to update the reindeer husbandry law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u98	Mr President! Supporting farmers' survival in this budget for the next year, for example, with regard to holidays, is a truly commendable effort. Holiday services are an integral part of the farmer's survival, social security. It is therefore essential to ensure that sufficient skilled labour is available. However, the shortage of labour, which is now absolutely true, should be dealt with through proper training. The level of professional qualifications required by the quitters is increasing and is constantly changing with the increase in robotics, and it is really important to maintain the educational volumes of primary production and vacation. Although the structural change in agriculture will lead to fewer jobs, the need for training will increase. Minister, is your ministry doing what steps are being taken to ensure that sub-natural resource training is maintained? Do you cooperate with the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u99	Mr President! Nature tourism is a potential growth sector for the future, and now the Ministry is making a great contribution to this in the form of the Tourism 4.0 project. Asian tourism is very much growing at the moment, and the share of Asian tourists at Helsinki Airport is growing at a tremendous rate. Has this been taken into account in the Tourism 4.0 project — as the number of Asian tourists and the number of people who may be staying here increases, they too have the opportunity to take advantage of it and, on the other hand, are attracted to our magnificent natural and national parks — from the point of view of the signs and the language of Internet services? My second question relates to the fact that fishing quotas have largely been set for professional fishermen throughout the Baltic Sea. In many countries, however, leisure fishing
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u100	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the good decision that the headquarters of the future food agency will be in Seinäjoki, South Ostrobothnia, in the food region. It's a self-righteous place for him. But, Minister, this fall looks really bad with the weather. Let's just hope there's a pout. It is estimated that the damage could move in up to hundreds of millions of euros as a result of this poor autumn and weather. What kind of measures may be taken if things go badly and the grain stays in the field? Is there any preparation at the Ministry for what kind of measures to pay for crop damage compensation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u101	Mr President! We have already mentioned this amendment to the Fisheries Act, where the prices of fishing permits are being increased. I understand here that conscientious fishermen who year after year pay their fishing permits will have to pay more next year. Let me briefly ask the Minister: would there not be any other way of solving this 2 million deficit?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u102	Mr President! As long as each of us eats food, it is a national priority and a vital task to secure our own food production. Consider the location of the northern country, Finland: For example, in terms of security of supply, possible emergency situations, Finland is indeed the only country where, for example, all ports freeze, and in this framework we are really an island. There have been worrying messages from security of supply operators about these speeches that Finnish food production and this northern food production may not be understood that way in the future in the EU, and there has been concern if such messages are given from Finland. It is vitally important for all of us that we have our own food production here secured. Finally, I would have asked the Minister specifically about the bioeconomy: how do you cooperate strongly with, for example, the Ministry of Employment and the Government as a whole to finance these new innovations and the new small businesses in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u103	Mr President! In Finland, we have some subjects for discussion that are difficult to discuss without enthusiasm and purely factually. I would like to ask the Minister whether a proper debate can be held in Finland on the transfer of the wolf from Annex IV to the Habitats Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u104	Mr President! I also agree with what Minister Leppä has done to promote Finnish food production and its entry into the market. After all, it would be important to get that producer price on the market. Of course, trade also plays a part, but this sharing relationship is what disturbs this debate. "Growth belongs to everyone" was the theme of yesterday's day, and forest growth is particularly a What is the Minister's view of this relationship between the European Union and the Finnish forest, how can we secure the supply of raw material to the Finnish forest industry? On the other hand, what is a sufficient price for Finnish forest owners on this issue of forests, I would like to hear the Minister's view on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u105	Mr President! At the end of that period, the minister dealt with the issue of animal welfare. I would like to ask again for clarification, just as Mrs Tuppurainen did, how does it look to see what this new legislation on animal welfare is coming up with in concrete terms. Hopefully these are the very things that make it progressive, this absolute value of animals and these farrowing cages etc. These challenges have been described by the animal welfare organisations in their excellent work, which has been distributed to us. President! The second point I raised in the previous speech concerned the role of the Commissioner for Animal Protection. At the time, at the request of the Social Democrats, when the previous government was negotiating, this office was established. It was in itself fixed-term, but of course a continuation would have been desired, because it is certainly the place for such an animal welfare councilman to be in Finland, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u106	Mr President! Yes, we have an excellent minister, that's where South Savo is going to be good material. [Laughter] I would like to thank the Minister in particular for the good attention he has given to island matters. As chairman of the Council for Archipelago Affairs, we were pleased to note at yesterday's meeting that our small budget has been increased and that we are now able to monitor and monitor the development of island regions much better at national level. In June, we handed the archipelago programme over to Minister Lepä, and there are a number of measures there, and now we really will be able to implement and monitor these in good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u107	Mr President! I would have asked about that reform of the Animal Protection Act. I have been contacted by a few people who have asked whether there has been any attention, for example, on fur farming, which was also a public noise, to these oversized foxes. How does the Minister see animal welfare in that context, and is there going to be a change? My second question relates to the fact that, in the second year before last, I took a bill on the full criminalisation of animal sex, and I was gratefully given names in this House, and there was a debate about it being brought up here in the context of the reform of the Animal Protection Act. I understand it would be forbidden, but is it something of a sanction? The mere fact that someone may be banned does not alter human behavior. I've been asked a lot, because, Sea, your bill is moving forward. I ask the Minister how we are going to deal with this now. There are only a few countries in Europe where it is the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u108	Mr President! Minister, the industries of the Ministry's administrative sector have almost been trained in this situation, where EU regulation is typically threatened. At that time, Finland has usually had to apply for an exemption, extension or transitional period, and these situations have typically also required new investments from industry. Turkey farming is a good example of this, and probably a similar situation in the spring will be the subject of a new debate. What is the minister going to do now to avoid situations where a business that does not enjoy agricultural subsidies does not remain stable and predictable and unexpected investment is needed? And are there any such reforms to the Animal Protection Act, which specifically concern fur farming?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u109	Finally, Mr Korhonen and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u110	Mr President! First of all, the speech by Mr Estilä on the subject of wolves was an excellent speech. Secondly, I have traditionally asked the Minister a question in connection with the budgetary procedure: what are the Minister's greetings to young farmers and those who are planning to become farmers? The reason for this question is, of course, the turbulence around this sector, including the development of agricultural profitability in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u111	And Minister Leppä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u112	Mr. Speaker! Thank you still for the excellent questions and comments and also for the incentives that came from you. I will start with this harvest situation and the extremely difficult, exceptionally difficult harvesting conditions this autumn, and the whole summer has been very challenging, at least on a regional basis. Preparedness has been raised in the ministry, that is clear, with this in mind, and now let us look at the end of the harvest period, and of course let us all hope that the weather will be favourable now at last and that the harvest will be completed. Then we'll come to conclusions. But the readiness has been increased. It has also been raised at the end of the EU, which is the last time we had a debate in Estonia, under the leadership of the presidency, on the functioning of crisis response. We were, I might say, almost all in agreement, the Member States and ministers, that the current EU crisis management mechanisms in this regard, that is to say those relating to agriculture, are not working, they need reform, and the Commission was obliged to do this. So here is the answer to Mr Kalli's question: there is readiness and readiness has been raised. It's obvious. The question arose as to how local authorities' food purchases will be affected. My message is clear. It is that I hope that the same principle that was required by the Government to be respected in the food supply of the state is respected in the municipalities. That is the wish, and now we have measures in the direction of the municipalities that remind us of this. I hope that here too, when there are so many of us municipal councillors, we will be exporting this message for our part, that is, that our public food purchases meet the conditions of cultivation required in Finland, environmental conditions, animal welfare conditions and all other safety-related conditions. It's a fair game: when you're on the same market, then you're on the same rules. This is also my message to the municipal side, unambiguously clear. The reduction of fraud and the compensation case were not answered just now. We have a ceiling of 10 million, an EU ceiling for these compensations, and within that limit it must remain. That is why we must pay attention not only to these issues of enclosures, namely protection, prevention, but also to the predatory stocks and, in particular, to the individuals causing disturbance and damage. Here we still have a place to intensify. Cooperation between the authorities has improved significantly, but it must continue to be improved if this is to be the case. Of course, everything has to be based on research and research. That is quite clear, and I am sure we will agree on that. But these are the two clear measures. Then there's the Animal Protection Act. It's going to the deposition right here. After the consultation, the conclusions will be drawn as to what comes into the law and in what way and what it includes. I would like to say to Mrs Merelle that all these farms, which were now in the public domain with regard to fur farming, have been inspected for giant foxes. I have not yet seen the inspection report, but when I see it, I am sure that conclusions will be drawn from it as well. In other words, the law, our supervisory authority and industry themselves have clearly resigned from this kind of activity. We can't have animals like this. The law prohibits breeding that causes pain and suffering to animals. That is unambiguously clear. Then there is the involvement of companies in the promotion of exports. This is extremely important and I am in constant dialogue with food businesses — and in what ways: As I have just said in my reply, cooperation between food operators must definitely be strengthened. That is also what we are aiming for with the new reform of export promotion, in which we are gathering troops so that Business Finland will start at the beginning of next year. There is tourism, there is tourism promotion, there is nature tourism promotion, there is fishing tourism promotion and so on. The issue of education is very important, and in every way we must ensure that there is a sufficient level of education in the bioeconomy, agriculture, forestry, everywhere. One thing that is also here, which has been the subject of dialogue with the Minister for Education and Culture and the Ministry of Culture, is that we also need export experts. These training courses will be set in motion, as will innovation. Last sighting for representative Eestilä of the wolf. We are always in the process of having this debate in the direction of the Commission. This issue is clearly within the Commission's powers of regulation and decision, and that is why, at this stage, when we are in the fourth annex on the wolf, we need to make maximum use of the flexibility mechanisms that it provides. But this matter of Mr Eestilä is a matter that we have been working on all the time, and it has certainly not been forgotten. We would be greatly relieved to deal with this issue if it were in the same annex as Estonia. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u114	Mr Tuppurainen, it is now after 12 o'clock and the next minister is already waiting for his turn, according to the programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u115	Madam President! There has been a long-awaited turn in our economy. Last year was already promising with a 2% increase, and this year we will reach a 3% level. The prospects for the coming years are therefore more positive than ever in this so-called lost decade. Positive economic growth provides a good basis for promoting our employment situation, and we in the government have worked determinedly to improve the employment situation. Through these measures, we must, of course, strengthen the opportunities for our companies to employ and provide skilled labour and access to it. Before I go into more detail on the details we have made as a government to improve the employment situation, let me say a few words about the present. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that this year the unemployment rate would be 8.6 per cent. The forecast for 2018 is 8.1 per cent and for 2019 7.8 per cent unemployment is forecast, so the direction is correct. In this process of development, the government's actions play their part. This positive momentum is beginning to be reflected in the development of employment. According to the latest employment survey, at the end of July, there were 329,000 unemployed job seekers in the Employment and Economic Development Offices, i.e. nearly 50,000 fewer than one year ago — too large a figure, of course, this number of unemployed people. It is good that unemployment has fallen in all age groups. Compared to one year ago, there are also 3,000 more job vacancies than one year earlier. We have increased state intervention: the activation rate was good 23 per cent at the end of July, which is 2.5 percentage points more than one year ago. Employment appropriations for next year's budget are expected to reach a level of 27%. By increasing the number of fixed-term interviews, we have reached a situation where 55% of the unemployed have up-to-date employment plans. The change from the beginning of the year is significant. At that time, only 18 per cent of the unemployed had a fixed-term interview before the duration of three months of unemployment. The purpose of the interviews is to serve and support the unemployed in seeking employment better than before. In the context of the budget debate, a number of new measures to improve employment were decided. Firstly, improving job seekers' ability to develop their skills in such a way that, without losing unemployment benefit, it would be possible to complete study modules of up to six months in support of professional skills and entrepreneurship. We will facilitate the right of the unemployed to start business with unemployment benefit. We will make the experiment on the conversion of higher education students permanent. We will extend the scope of the mobility grant. In the budget debate, we also decided on new ways of reducing youth unemployment. We maintain Ohjaamo operations, and a new package of psychosocial support services will be added to the service package. This will help to tackle the problems of young people’s ability to work and to work and to combat obstacles to employment as early as possible. For the coming year, we set aside EUR 15 million for public labour and business services to increase performance-based procurement. The aim is that 10,000 under 30-year-olds will be directed to new services. Service producers are paid only for the results, i.e. the progress of young people in education or employment. In addition, the provision of pay support will be increased in interviews with persons under 30 years of age and will be combined with job-seeking and job coaching. The provision of vocational education and training is also to be increased at 1000 places of study, especially in sectors with labour shortages. Since I am also responsible for integration, perhaps a few words about it. Today we had a ministerial group on immigration and a recent report on what is going on in terms of integration on a European scale, including other countries from outside the EU: Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Iceland, Norway, South Korea, Switzerland, Turkey and the USA. In such a so-called Mipex (Migrant Integration Policy Index) comparison, which measures the legislation on integration support services and access to them and the effectiveness of integration measures, there are 144 indicators. Finland was ranked in this previous comparison, 2014, fourth in conjunction with Norway, and above were Sweden, Portugal and New Zealand. However, there is still room for improvement, for example in employment and in the performance of children and young people in school. It can therefore be concluded from this set of statistics that integration is not as unsuccessful as is often implied, but not as successful as we would like it to be. That is why I have decided today — and the immigration ministerial group — that we should first of all engage in dialogue with non-governmental organisations and, in particular, with ethnic groups with low employment rates. The idea is that we also challenge them to meet what they could do better. We must succeed in integration so that we do not have any problems. It is in the interests of all of us, and that is why I dare to talk about it and challenge it. That is very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u116	Mr President! This last message from the Minister on integration and cooperation between NGOs is very welcome, because I believe that, when we can integrate people into civil society and not just with authorities or, as it were, with people who are engaged in integration, it will produce a better result and will also provide more resources for NGOs. Yesterday, the Minister told us in this Chamber that your budget for employment is good, and I am sure it is. But I would like to ask the good situation: since, in fact, there is still a ceiling in this budget for the employment of organisations, and with reference to this line of integration, would it not be justified to value the employment of the long-term unemployed of organisations a little more than is currently the case because they are actually working with the most difficult group? Those of us who have been doing these things for a long time know that even if we all want the long-term unemployed to be more employed in market-based companies, it is difficult because companies have their own fears and their own logics, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u117	Mr President! From the beginning of this year, the government decided to start interviews with the unemployed four times a year. In the early part of the year, despite the fact that, by now, only half of the unemployed have been interviewed once. Well in the spring we learned that the interviews are going to be dropped and instead, and they are planning to replace them with an active model for the unemployed, where the unemployed should be looking for work almost weekly for at least 12 weeks so that the toughness does not increase. Now, however, in the autumn, EUR 20 million was added to the interviews, and I ask the Minister: What is the fate of these interviews in the future, and what is the fate of the active model of the unemployed? And if the interviews continue, what is your impression and feeling of when will we get to this rate every three months?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u118	Mr President! Our economy loses up to EUR 25 billion every year due to disability pensions, sick leave, sick work and accidents at work. Work fatigue and mental health problems are at an alarming level in our workplaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u119	Mr President! I would have asked about this employment rate. We in Finland have the ambition to achieve the 72% during this reign, and then, if we compare it to the international level, especially Sweden, the increase we have had in employment recently, the 50,000, is no different from the increase we have seen in Sweden, for example, and there it is currently 76%, i.e. 15% better in units than at present in Finland, and even though they do not have a specific programme to increase the employment rate, at the same rate it will increase to 80% — if you look at the curves a bit. I would have asked the Minister: now that we have an agreement with the social partners on this kiky agreement, which has contributed to this growth, and now that we are also doing the work in those committees and in this Parliament that facilitates employment and also employment, do you think that we will at some point be able to achieve that increase in employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u120	Mr President! There are a lot of good reforms in the labour market package, thank you for them. But this active model is a sad indication of the poor understanding we have in the administration of the daily lives of the unemployed. After all, there are three main reasons why the unemployed are not willing to do shrapnel work: there are no jobs available, their own skills or their ability to work are not enough for the jobs that are available, or there is no courage to accept them because of bureaucracy. Well, for the first two of these reasons, the active model has no effect at all, and for this last one it has a negative effect so that it adds to the already arbitrarily and difficult social security bureaucracy, which is perhaps the main obstacle to the reception of fragmentation work at the moment. This is more a passive model than an active model, and I fear that this will be more of a cut than a tool for promoting and encouraging people's employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u121	Mr President! I myself would like to ask the Minister about the active model of unemployment protection, which will come into force at the beginning of next year. The unemployed person must have been in a certain amount of employment or employment-friendly services, labour market training, experimentation or training, and if the unemployed person is not, unemployment benefit will be reduced by 4.65%. The problem here is that there are currently very few people in the TE Offices and many places are out of employment appropriations, which in practice may lead to a reduction in this for reasons independent of the unemployed. I should like to ask the Minister whether you intend to provide some kind of service guarantee to the unemployed for these services. The second point relates to the dismantling of incentives traps and the increase in bureaucracy, to which Mr Kontula referred. This is estimated to increase income support expenditure by up to 10 million. How do you see this problem or this challenge in this proposal? To the end: I do find it worrying, from the point of view of social policy, how the threshold for people in particular who are in a bad position to apply for this job and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u122	Mr President! Minister, what is your assessment of structural unemployment as a barrier to employment in Finland? We have heard good figures about the reduction in unemployment and the measures taken to enable the unemployed to develop their own skills. In particular, I would have asked about your assessment of the employment of young people. We know that at secondary level, 17% of those taking up education will be suspended. Now, however, training places are being increased. Is the planned psychosocial support sufficient? Are there other measures, then, that schools, jobs can take to get young people to graduate and move to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u123	Madam President! Minister, tourism in my region of Lapland has grown strongly. That is where, thanks to the positive world development and also to the government's efforts, the Far East will become tourists strongly. The strength and weakness of tourism in Lapland lies in the fact that 4,000 jobs are created specifically for micro-enterprises. The vitality of micro-enterprises is the basis on which Lapland and Finnish tourism will operate in the future. Business subsidies are important. In what way have you, Minister Lindström, thought to support this positive development, given the importance of business subsidies, the impact on employment and the importance of small and micro-enterprises, which are the majority of those involved in tourism?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u124	Mr President! I would like to thank you for the reforms that were already under way when the Finns of Finland were also in the government, such as the possibility of studying and trying during the unemployment benefit period. It was a great thing that it progressed. The Prime Minister and many others spoke yesterday about the problem of confrontation, and that is a serious problem. The Finns of Peru were offering migration aid — we have publicly argued that it would be possible to catch a minister. Representative Ala-Nissilä from downtown yesterday supported this idea, and Minister Häkkänen also promised me on a TV show to consider it. So I would like to ask Minister Lindström: could migration assistance for people, for example, be considered in the case of a two-house trap? I understand very well that we should go to great lengths of work and there is still a trial period, and how do you do so so that it does not stand in the way of anything? Then I would like to ask you a little more specifically whether there are any other measures for integration. However, there are quite high unemployment rates for people who have been in Finland for a long time, so that we must tackle it quickly now. When active models and activity are also required of Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u125	Madam President! Thank you for the many good openings that have come to this from the Ministry side. In particular, this permanent operation of the Cab is one such thing. I would now like to ask you a very specific question about the employment of people over 55: it is evident — I would even call it age discrimination — that their employment is very difficult. Is there any programme or project in the Ministry to help these elderly, moderately young, well-working people get to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u126	Mr President! Unbound employment funds are suddenly still available at Ely centres for some EUR 150 million. When the Minister started, this money ran out by the summer, so the situation is truly unique. I would like to know what you would like or wish for this money now. Why is there so much money available, is it too bureaucratic to apply for it, is there any other rigidities and so on? There are certainly financial gaps, not least in getting young unemployed people back into life control and access to learning and working life, and, of course, there are still a lot of needs for the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u127	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Filatov and also Mr Paloniemi for raising the employment money specifically for associations and the third sector. We know that there would be a lot of work that would make sense for the long-term unemployed and, on the other hand, support the whole community, and it would therefore be important for associations to be able to use this money better. We also know that some of the long-term unemployed will not be able to return to the open labour market through conversion training, and it would therefore be important for them to have adequate wage support. The second point I would like to raise is our well-gendered labour market. We have a very strong job for men and women, and this is one of the reasons why wage equality has still not been achieved. The euro for women is still 83.6 cents. Family leave is also one of the reasons why women's careers are falling apart. I would like to ask: what is being done in the Ministry to ensure that these divided labour markets are evened up and that we achieve equal pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u128	Before the Minister, still representatives of Marin, Sarkkinen and Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u129	Mr President! The active model of unemployment protection promoted by the government involves a number of problems, which experts have also drawn attention to. In general terms, the active model continues with the government's policy, which sees unemployment primarily as an individual's own cause, not as a matter of lack of jobs or problems with encounters. However, unemployment is about job losses, on the one hand, due to the difficult cyclical situation and on the other, as a result, for example, of the continued strengthening of the public sector. Furthermore, the skills of unemployed job seekers do not necessarily meet the requirements of new job vacancies. That is why we need action, for example, to support retraining. Mr Lindström, the government has already made life difficult for the unemployed through many cuts. Do you share my view that in the big picture unemployment is, above all, a social problem and not the choice or fault of the unemployed? And if you agree, why do you continue with politics?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u130	Mr President! The problem of matching, i.e. that the unemployed and jobs do not meet, is an important problem and can be facilitated by, for example, vocational training. That is what Mr Marin has already mentioned. The labour market is changing and skills need to be updated. It needs to be increased because of today's demands. But, Mr President, do I read the budget correctly now that it is planned to reduce vocational adult education and training in the labour market for more than 2000 people per year? Can this be the case when you're supposed to be the other way around? I hope I'm reading the book wrong. Mr President! Thank you for facilitating the possibility of self-study with labour market support in short, less than 6 months of studies. It is a welcome reform. But I would like to ask the Minister: have you considered that, even in longer periods of study, labour market support could still make it easier to study, because it is often better for people to be in school than unemployed, and that would improve their chances of employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u131	Madam President! There has been a turn for the better in unemployment. There has been a great deal of concern here, among other things, about the employment of the older population, but I would also like to draw attention to young people, because I believe that unemployment among young people is the worst type of unemployment. It creates visionlessness and hopelessness, and we must be able to provide young people with a good outlook and good prospects for the future. The action plans talk about tackling youth unemployment and developing arrangements. The job card and the Sanssi card will be renewed. I would like to hear more clearly what kind of plans the Minister has in practice. Further efforts are being made to remove red tape and improve the conditions for local reconciliation. It would be good to hear more about this too. Is it possible to achieve a situation in which local reconciliation actually comes to Finnish workplaces and the dictation and coercion of the trade union movement in Finnish workplaces ends?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u132	Minister Lindström, no more than 5 minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u133	Madam President! Thank you for the proper discussion. Mr Filatov and a few other of these employment appropriations — I will try to respond to this whole in this context at the same time to everyone: I mean, really, yeah, we made a decision to have a ceiling of 3000 for 100% wage support. This will probably have some significance for the situation in which we are now: that the funds are still available. The second reason for this — and this is now more like this — is that we must have obtained this law, which allows unemployment benefit to be used for pay subsidies, start-up grants and mobility grants. I'm sure it's somebody's role in the situation we're in right now. You asked — I may continue here, let's go in order — from this July too, why did we stop looking for a job? Indeed this was the case that there were problems with the electronic services, and I have been given this kind of information about the matter that it has been informed on the 22 June te-palvelu.fi website on topical matters. And that communication will continue to be invested in, and the availability of these very important electronic services must be improved and it must be ensured that they do indeed work, because people will not have problems. This reform has indeed become feedback from both jobseekers and experts in TE services. It is a lot like this that people have not understood the instructions and customers may not know how to use these new electronic services. We must continue to invest in this. This concern is taken seriously. Representative Järvinen, concerning the fate of the interviews — and a few others also brought up this active model: When will we get to the rhythm of three months? That's where we're headed. This is a huge job. We knew this wouldn't happen overnight. As I said in my introductory speech, this interview has now been conducted for 55 % and the experience of it, at least those who have come to me, is largely positive — of course there will be criticism, but mainly positive — because we now have information about it. We also benefit ourselves from knowing who is at work, who is not, and on the other hand we can help and activate these people. That's the point of these interviews. This active model, which will probably come here at some point in the autumn, as HE, is part of the big 10-point package that we agreed with the social partners, which, of course, SAK — it is fair to say — announced that they will not accept it, and they have criticised it all the time and so have many others, but nevertheless it was in the package, which then includes, among other things, zero contracts and self-training. The government has promised to promote these things, but it will also bring this active model. For the reason why it is imported, the strongest argument is that the active model is believed and is hoped to have a positive effect on employment. That's why it's moving forward. Representative Rehn-Kivi, well-being at work, productivity: Maybe this occupational health and safety side is more on that side of the STM, but you said you had a program, "nationally better well-being at work" or so on. In the context of the "Working Life 2020" project, a round table on this well-being at work was held last week and the issue was discussed. A very good round table debate where the social partners were invited to attend. The idea is that now that this The "Working Life 2020" project is moving forward, these things have to be put into the workplace during this period, and it is of course the biggest challenge of all how it is done. Everyone understands that it really matters. You approached this in exactly the right way: productivity — good well-being at work brings productivity, but it does not immediately come under the line, but you have to be patient. This was a common understanding, it just has to be marketed and grounded that it will also be faith on the part of entrepreneurs and employers that it really is useful when investing in well-being at work. Well, the active model became a lot of criticism here. With regard to the resources for TE activities, Mr Nurminen said — if I heard correctly — that employment appropriations were running out of places. No, they're not. They're not the end of nowhere. The situation is that there are 150 million unbound, and there are, of course, regional differences, but there is money everywhere. In fact, it is a question of knowing how to use it. When someone asked how and to which sites — I think Mr Paloniemi — they were precisely measures to improve their own labour market position. If there's no work, then something to help you move on. Things like this. I'd be marketing pay support here and using it. The question of this representative, Mr Filatov, was quite proper in himself, that something could be done about this, and I have also received feedback from the national association of the unemployed that we could cancel this. The government has drawn up a policy on this roof, and it will remain here for the time being,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u134	Now, Minister, let us continue with the speeches of the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u135	Madam President! Immigrants themselves have the main responsibility for integration, which is impossible to do without their own activity. The native population, on the other hand, must show acceptance and love for the enterprising comers. No one wants to integrate in a country where they feel despised or discriminated against. This is a good line on the agenda of the future party, the blue future, and this is the same spirit that Minister Lindström, in this speech, also expressed in what they could do better themselves or what immigrant communities and various NGOs are doing, and we are seeking contact and solutions for this debate. That's good. I know that the Minister of Labour has visited the United States on this basis, and has also sought these means abroad. I would like to ask, when we know the great history of the United States of America of how it has been possible to act as a melting pot for nations and to integrate people and also to give them acceptance, to get into the labour market what kind of lessons you, as Minister of Labour, could draw from the United States, which we can use here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u136	Mr President! The employment rate would be 1.5 percentage points higher in Finland if the employment rate of young women were at Swedish level. Structural reforms are therefore needed, and I am delighted to welcome this reform of family leave which the government is now putting in motion. We also have a major encounter problem in Lapland. We have the best tourist season and the season starting, and our own young people are not enough to work there, and thousands of young people and little older come from here in the south. There is also a pressing need for solutions to this problem of confrontation. But my question would be about this law on social enterprises. It is being overturned because it has failed to meet the objectives of the law. In Western Europe, the starting point is the community nature of activities, not so much profit-making, i.e. the basis of values for starting from the right of everyone to work and to make their own contribution to society, regardless of its size. Instead of stopping, this legislation should be developed. I ask you: is there any help coming to this, Mr Lindström, and could this be further developed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u137	Mr President! After all, work is the best social security, and it is very important to us all. After all, through the reforms, the government has now succeeded in getting 50,000 new jobs in Finland in cooperation with various social partners, but the role of the government was quite big when the competitiveness agreement was raised five times before it was completed. But the question that I asked for has already been raised here. In Sweden, according to my information, those who care at home for a child or an elderly person are counted as members of the labour force. My question is: why do we not have the same practice in Finland because it changes these statistics and then they are not comparable when the criteria are different? Then there is the question that part-time work, for example, explains in Sweden why women are much better involved in working life. So we have this working time model, that it is the eight hours and there is not much flexibility or seven hours, whatever it is, which makes the situation more difficult — so that flexibility also occurs when families need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u138	President! I would take the hat out of my head if I had one, namely that there will be such a huge change in this administrative sector, giving birth to Business Finland, whose aim is, nothing more, nothing less than doubling the exports of our small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the innovation ecosystem will be internationalised, creating a strong national actor to support growth and internationalisation. I would say take the provinces with you. We have, for example, BusinessOulu in Oulu, which has done things like this. Regional strong regional actors, partners, should be involved at an early stage, and at the same time the services provided to these companies must be produced, whether they are internationalisation services or others. More drinks should be put in place to promote tourism. It is very close to starting around a dozen new major hotel projects, and hopefully they can also be moved forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u139	Madam President! It is good to continue the debate on youth unemployment. Mr Kopra, for example, made a good point. The OECD report, which covered the level of education, also speaks of young people outside the labour force and education, and Finland has exceeded the OECD average, which is a truly alarming situation. I would ask the Minister: do you feel that the current measures are sufficient to prevent the exclusion of young people? My second question concerns integration. Integration has sometimes been used as a means of political twist, but I believe that the debate should be results-oriented. I would like to ask the Minister, who has been working for two years on integration: what are the bottlenecks that could be improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u140	Madam President! The economy is growing and, fortunately, unemployment is decreasing, including long-term unemployment among people aged over 55. However, the unemployment challenge remains very serious in some regions, while others are already suffering from labour shortages. Youth unemployment is one of the priorities of this budget. Among other things, the Ohjaamo activities will be consolidated and 1000 study places will also be added to vocational education and training. These are good measures. One area where we have a lot of work to do and where we could get more jobs and more income is tourism. In Europe, especially in southern Europe, many countries have their own minister, the Minister for Tourism, who coordinates the whole. In Finland, tourism produces 14 billion, employs 140,000 and is 6.5 per cent of GDP. Perhaps we too should consider such coordination in this area of tourism. At the moment, it is the responsibility of quite a few of you ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u141	Mr President! With 50,000 fewer unemployed job seekers, long-term unemployment has gone down, new jobs have been created, and it is certainly appropriate to praise the Minister and the government for the work they have done. I don't think it's a bad thing that unemployed people get to work. There have also been many criticisms in this debate, but the results speak for themselves, and I am sure the most important thing is that people get a job. But we have a lot of work, which is seasonal, seasonal, and today we have been talking about the problem of encounters: there is work combining paid work and entrepreneurship, and people are then caught up in these breaks, and social security does not always follow on that journey. What is the situation with regard to combined insurance is that every time you work, it becomes a social security contribution paid by yourself or by employers. There is, of course, also the basic income experiment and its continuation. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u142	Mr President! Minister Lindström, you have actively developed an active model that distributes sanctions, sanctions and reductions in unemployment security to people who have not been able to find work for a few days or for whom there has been no provision for labour policy measures. At the same time, you have pledged 150 million in employment. How is this possible? [Department :Eseole! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u143	Mr President! Unlike usual, I would like to start by thanking Mr Lindström, the Minister for Labour, and thank you to the whole government. Unemployment rates are heading in the right direction. That is what we must quickly say to the previous speaker, Mr Tolppanen, about the 150 million unused money in the Ely Centres, that the Ministry does not pledge this money, it is indeed in the Ely Centres. However, we must remember that unemployment is extremely expensive. Treatment of unemployment is extremely expensive, and you must also remember who pays for it: The people who are currently working are paying for this, and it is therefore very important that the employment rate is raised. The government's target is 72%, and unfortunately there has now been public information that a few government representatives have also said and admitted that this objective will not be achieved. But I think we should stick to our goals. What happens if Finnair abandons its safety target of 100%?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u144	Mr President! It is an extremely good thing that unemployment is now falling and the employment rate is rising. Despite this, there are bottlenecks in the labour market, for example in Varsinais-Suomi, where Turku Shipyard and the New Town Car Factory employ what they can, but there is still a shortage of skilled labour. We need more labour in Finland. Of course, it can be found within Finland's borders, but we also need work-related immigration. In this context, there is a problem: When a company wants to hire a skilled person with a specific substance competence for a specific job, it is not allowed to do so freely today, because there is a need test going on. It is the responsibility of the authorities, the Ely Centre and the employment services, which means that they are better aware of the type of competence and competence a particular company wants in certain situations,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u145	Madam President! The excellent thing is that Ohjaamo activities become permanent and are also accompanied by a package of psychosocial support for young people. These programmes have proved to be very effective in the whole package, but it is a pity that Finland as a whole is not yet covered in these Cabs. A large proportion of Finnish young people are excluded from this good service package. Minister, is there a plan for this to be extended so that it is possible to access this service throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u146	Mr President! Indeed, unemployment has finally started to fall, partly due to decisions taken at the beginning of the parliamentary term, including significant income tax reductions for low and middle-income earners. However, there are still hundreds of thousands of unemployed. There is therefore a great deal of work to be done, especially by the Minister for Labour. Unfortunately, most of these Finnish unemployed do not find a job despite the hard search. In the public debate and also in Mrs Wallin's speeches, more and more proposals have been made to eliminate labour needs. These presentations have come a little unexpectedly from both the right and left sides of the party field, but not from the True Finns. There is a risk that, if there were a large-scale elimination of the need-tested exercise, it could lead to a two-tier labour market, particularly if, at the same time, collective agreements were not universally binding — as has been said, for example, from the point of view of the Coalition Party. I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u147	Mr President! The Minister justified the active model by being part of this package and there are really good things in that package, such as facilitating self-training and facilitating entrepreneurship. But since you have also been Minister of Justice, I would ask from the point of view of justice: do you think it is right to impose an obligation on the unemployed to find work for themselves in order to be able to benefit fully from unemployment security or to participate in active measures, but society and the employment services are not obliged to provide those measures? Both the workplace and the active activities are under someone else’s thumb than the decision of the unemployed person himself. And no matter how hard he tries, he may not be able to get into any of these measures that would fully protect him from unemployment. You estimate in that bill that we have today that there will be an increase in income support expenditure of 10 million, and there will be the worst bureaucratic and incentive traps. So it's estimated that 10 million people are going to die.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u148	Mr President! At the same time as employment is rising, we still have a high rate of unemployment. At the same time, we have certain sectors where there is a huge shortage of skilled labour. To mention a few areas: for example, hundreds of new workers would be needed in the boat industry on the west coast of Ostrobothnia, the whole of Finland needs hundreds of new factors in the private security sector, and once the construction sector has started to rise, there would also be a need for workers in that sector. How can we better get this to respond to the problem of confrontation now? Mr Wallin mentioned this issue of labour immigration and access testing, but do we not have the means here in the country of origin to get the unemployed to work, even if by retraining them and even by moving to another place if there is work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u149	Mr President! One of the structural problems that we Finns have to deal with in a certain way, and which I do not think is being talked about enough, is labour productivity. Unfortunately, labour productivity is rising more slowly in Finland than in the wage level. I think this is because Finnish companies do not use digitalisation in the knowledge potential that would be possible in Finland with this knowledge. Strong digitality would therefore support Finland’s strengths. The more knowledge we have, the more we benefit from digitalisation. I would like to ask: what has been said about digitalisation within the government, and what kind of measures could be found to address this particular problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u150	Mr President! Of course, in relation to this 150 million, which has now been hidden, it must be said that the Ely Centres belong to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. If 150 million — 150 million — are unspent money in a situation where people in the most difficult position want to take them away, and where they give them extra care, if they can't find three days' work or if they can't find 18 hours' work for a week, then they would expect the Minister to know. There are simply no such jobs, Minister. And as far as so many people are concerned, if they accept this three - day job or 18 hours a week work, all other benefits will fall away from them. They are living in an even worse position than they have lived until then. Yes, I would require you to tell me how it is possible that you do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u151	Mr President! Minister Lindström, you said that the active model is being implemented because it is believed to get people to work. I would ask: who believes, and on what basis? So as far as labour market policy measures are concerned, we already have an obligation to participate. If you do not go to work there or to the measure you are assigned to, you will lose your unemployment benefit altogether. In practice, if we do not want double punishment, this active model would only penalise people's self-splitting. This, on the other hand, means that there are those who are unable to apply and where income support increases. Then there are those who are able to apply and then adjust it to a much more complex unemployment benefit. And lastly, there are those who were unable to seek out and feel that the situation was unfair and congested through this channel of complaint. Bureaucracy is increasing significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u152	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that when we talk about improving employment figures, thanks are due to entrepreneurs and workers in our country. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Government, who have contributed to these measures, for having reached this point. As has been said, long-term unemployment and unemployment among people over 55 have decreased, but at least I am concerned above all about the tens of thousands of young people in our country who have gone to school and are trying to get to that first job. We know that there are many people with mental health problems in this group, and this social aspect must be included in it. That the government should invest in this when it is said that young people have a future. It is all right when criticisms of company subsidies were made yesterday that this working group has now been put in place to consider what might distort them. It's nice to say that this government has really done a lot and I'm sure it will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u153	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the government groups for making it easier for you to study and become an entrepreneur while unemployment is taking place. It is an important reform. Representative The hillhead talked about young people, and I'd like to continue on the same subject: I myself welcome the establishment of the Cabs, and it is important that we increase the number of entrepreneurship workshops, but I believe that these current measures, as a whole of the Youth Guarantee, are still reasonably moderate compared to what the need might be. I am referring to the fact that quite a few governments in Finland have tried to obtain an effective youth guarantee, but when you go to the implementation of the Youth Guarantee in practice in municipalities, when you go to the way upper secondary education, social services, employment services and substance abuse services play as if towards the same goal, there is a lot to be done here. I would ask the Minister: could you encourage municipalities — and I mean encourage them, not with a stick, but with a carrot — more in cross-border cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u154	Representatives Torsti, Mölsä and Järvinen before the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u155	Mr President! There's been a merited criticism of the activation model here. I'm going to focus on a few thanks. The Minister has really done a great job, first of all. The "Working Life 2020" project, which was created under the leadership of Minister Ihalainen. Perhaps also Mr Parviainen from the Youth Guarantee, that it really started exactly during the last term of government, and it is really great that the programme that came out of it is now being consolidated and taken forward. Similarly, this opportunity to study and entrepreneurship in the event of unemployment deserves commendation and, of course, has been the aim of many of us. Separately, then, I would have liked to address the issue of integration and its effectiveness. We have recently had two reports in Helsinki, both on monitoring and on the Finnish integration system, and both reports have indicated that we should be much more aware of what is actually happening in the field and that this information has been collected. So the system seems to be quite exemplary, but then the inside reveals these problems of coordination at different levels of government and so on. So I would like to ask: are these shortcomings in the monitoring of integration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u156	Madam President! When the opposition believes that the unemployed should not be pushed into work, I will read a brief extract from Eino Poutiainen's book on what life once was: "A hectare was set aside a year or so, and in about a year and a half or two, there was always one more child. When I first asked for access to the unemployment card in the winter, it was said that there were too few children, there should be three underage children before they could. Well, I went home to make more children, but at the same time more fields were cleared. When there were three children, there were already four hectares of cultivated land. It was said: you have too much land, you are well-off, so let's not take the unemployment card." This was once in the '50s. Minister Lindström, are things really as bad as the opposition claims?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u157	Madam President! The opposition also wants to push the unemployed to find a job, but it is just not fair that for the unemployed it is a compulsory obligation and a voluntary desire for the employment services. This debate on the outside may also seem a bit crazy at times, because when we talk about the good results of kiki, such as new jobs, then the government seems to have a lot of hands at stake, but when we talk about unfair and painful holiday money cuts, as we have heard this week, then the government has nothing to do with the kiky deal. And in the name of honesty, this is also repeated on the opposition side, but vice versa. But my real question is about the long-term unemployed. We are all delighted that their numbers have decreased by 20,000, but at the same time the number of incomeless households has doubled and now there are 50,000, I would like to ask the Minister: how much of this 20,000 has actually been working, and how much has been draining?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u158	Mr President! I would have corrected the mistake of not wanting the opposition, at least the Social Democrats, to activate people into working life. We are absolutely in favour of having an obligation to receive work and we also have an obligation to take part, for example, in labour policy training and in measures that genuinely contribute to the employment of people. So we are not in favour of people being able to choose unemployment. But we cannot accept that people should be cut off from unemployment benefit if they have been looking for work if they have tried to be active, but society has not been able to provide them with that activity, and here is the difference. It is a question of whether unemployment is the responsibility of the individual or of society. It is the individual's responsibility to seek work and try everything, but it is society's responsibility to treat people fairly, and that is not what this active model does.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u159	Secretary Lindström, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u160	Madam President! Thank you for the conversation. — I have to focus on something, I will focus at least on this integration at the beginning. I will start with the question of what lessons to learn from the United States. Of course, it is not the USA that is being imitated, but it was a journey that sparked ideas, and one thought was precisely that NGOs are at the heart of the integration process and that different religious groups are at the same table. This was at least a wake-up call for us in Finland to think about something similar, and then the idea started to move forward, and now we are so far along that we have thought about going to a round table or a four-scant table, but at the same table, and discussing these things — and we really are challenging them. Integration primarily originates from the integration of himself and his responsibility and desire to integrate, and we will then provide those elements for it. Here Mr Yanar asked about these bottlenecks in integration: I've got a fresh piece of paper here, and we've been thinking about this. 2015 and today are quite different. Then this crisis came to Finland, and that crisis also came to the Ministry, because that integration before that and now are two completely different things. We had to redo everything, from thinking that how we view this, and also the resources, that the ministry has now actually become resources. As far as I am concerned, I should be able to do more, because this is beginning to be of such magnitude that I personally believe that I am not just the Minister for Labour but the Minister for Labour and Integration. It should actually appear in this title, even though I am not after the titles. First of all, there is no solution that suits everyone. There is no such thing, but paths to the labour market and entrepreneurship based on background and knowledge must be created. What is essential is recognition of its competence, then this encounter and in this way. The measures that we have now taken or are doing: Increasing the recognition and guidance of immigrants' skills, and this preparation is ongoing in cooperation with OKM. Increasing the working life orientation of integration training, and these plans and guidelines have been renewed in April 2016. Accelerating transitions to vocational training and its preparation is under way in cooperation with OKM. In Uusimaa, there is a flexible vocational KOTO training programme for the VOS and TEM-funded labour niche sectors, which will be directed towards the labour niche sectors. Among other things, this SIB impact investment model is one that has been greatly praised, and especially at Nordic level. By the way, I am going to the Nordic Ministerial Conference on Integration in Norway on Tuesday, and these issues will then be on the agenda there as well. These things are going on. The recognition of qualifications will then be speeded up and it will be developed through the qualification training of highly educated people, including the responsible university model, and this preparation is under way in cooperation with OKM. Then I would come here to the municipality, which was raised by Olli-Son Parviainen, to encourage municipalities not only in this integration but also in employment in general: In my own hometown of Kouvola, I visited the Parik Foundation on Monday and heard that they were in trouble there because the money was out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u163	This is where the proceedings and the plenary session are suspended due to the meetings of the parliamentary groups. This plenary session will resume at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now return to the debate on the budget. The first speaker is Minister Saarikko, up to 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u165	Mr President! Now, after Question Time, for the first time, I have the opportunity, the honour of presenting for my part the contribution of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to next year's budget, and it is in fact the first one to draw my attention to the budget for the entire administrative sector, which, in line with the government's basic proposal, will amount to around EUR 15 billion next year. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, along with Finland, will be 100 years old this year. In this historic year of welfare policy, it is interesting to note and note that we are therefore using a common Finnish state budget, the state budget, the centenary year for more than a quarter of Finnish social security, family and housing costs, and social and health services. Next year, the role of the social and health sector in raising the common cake will also be emphasised as the growth strategy in the health sector is gaining momentum from this budget proposal now under discussion. Mr President! After difficult decisions to balance the economy, yes, the government wanted to find targets, especially in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, to which the small allocation of public finances could be allocated to benefit the most low-income Finns. As the Minister of Finance said in the recent debate, we made careful consideration and assessment of the most vulnerable citizens and focused our attention particularly on the future, children and young people. I am not saying that, of course, I am not saying that these measures we are proposing could completely reverse development, narrow the gap in income disparities, but the direction is undoubtedly the right one. I am particularly pleased that, as I said, we are now allocating funds specifically to families with children and also to those with low incomes. I would like to highlight a few examples of this. EUR 9.5 million will be allocated to raising the single-parent breed of child benefit, which means an increase of approximately EUR 5 per month to the single-parent breed. Studies show that poverty among families with children is the most common in single - parent families, and that is why the increase was directed at them. Updating the maternity allowance will be increased by EUR 1.65 million on an annual basis, and this will develop the content of the mother package of the crown jewel of our social policy known to all. I think of this as some sort of solemn decision for our future builders born next year in Finland’s 100th year. I also think it is very important that the budget increases the number of asylum places. Next year, the funding of shelters for citizens facing violence in their daily lives will be EUR 4 million more than in the current year 2017. An important and first-time decision is that in the state budget, an amount of EUR 3 million is already allocated directly from the government proposal to the services of women who use drugs. These are also acts for children and families. I would also like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that a number of small but at least symbolically significant expenditure increases, albeit in the EUR 15 billion administrative sector, have been implemented largely in line with the list of estimates made by Parliament in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health of the shortcomings in government budgets from year to year. Therefore, support is now being targeted, for example, in nursing For the Research Foundation or even for the newly mentioned rehabilitation activities of women using drugs. More money is now being allocated to the centres of excellence in the social field, and in all of this there is a strong parliamentary voice. The size of the STM budget is also small, but I believe that the social significance of the budget must be EUR 1 million for the development of hospice care. That money is intended to harmonise the grounds for palliative treatment and hospice therapy regardless of the patient’s place of residence. There are therefore reformable and uniform criteria for hospice treatment. If we want and want Finland to be the best country in the world for babies born here, then I think it is equally important to ensure that the path of life is respected for the last few years and a dignified death. I venture to hope that the development of hospice care will receive the attention it deserves here too in parliamentary debates this autumn, even though there is no direct legislative change at this point. Mr President! EUR 1 million will also be allocated to support the survival of farmers, and this is linked to the agricultural crisis package, previously agreed. In addition, the same amount shall be allocated for the partial extension of the compensatory allowance. But then to large euro-denominated decisions. A significant amount of funding will be made available for the reform of the social security system in next year's budget. For the freedom of choice pilots, i.e. for all those who launch this systemic change as part of our service system, an appropriation of EUR 100 million will be proposed for next year. An appropriation of EUR 180.5 million will be made available for national support for social and regional reform, the digitisation of public administration and services, and the investment in ICT required for regions and national services. We must invest a great deal if we want and when we want to make savings, better information costs, information systems, thus smoother care chains and genuinely digitalized social and health care for all Finns. This is a very important point for the success of the social welfare reform, Parliament. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the health sector's potential for the future and investment to be a contributor to the national economy cake: the growth strategy in the health sector has already been formulated in several budgets, and next year it will be followed by the establishment of a national neuro centre and the establishment of a licensing authority to manage the use of social data. These actions aim at Finland’s development as a pioneer country and as an international, sought-after partner for the state-of-the-art research in health care using neuroresearch and social sciences. In addition, the aim is to create new businesses and jobs in Finland for the benefit of the social and health sector. This authority for the authorisation of social and health information, the combination of research data and its easier use, is accompanied by an important set of laws which will be brought to the attention of Parliament this autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the opportunity to make comments. Please sign up by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u167	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Annika Saarikko for her contribution to the fact that you have raised the matter of hospice there during the budgetary negotiations and have received the budget. I know you've done a lot of work for it, and you kept your promise. We have had a lot of discussion on this issue that this must be taken further than it has been at present. However, I am also concerned that you said that there is no change to the legislation. I've made a bill on this. I've written the hospice law. We do not currently have one in Finland, but I have it in my desk drawer. Although I haven't left it yet, and I haven't signed it myself yet. Can you promise that without the right to hospice care is subjectively written in the law and the number of nursing places and the right to care, this will happen to all of us all around Finland and that every Finn will be equal, whether in the north or in the south? But thank you for this, too. This is a good start, and we really expect results to be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u168	Mr President! First of all, I must say that for a while I was saddened that veterans were being operated on in this 100-year-old Finland, but now I understand that this operation is being cancelled. That's good news. As far as this budget is concerned, and as far as Minister Saariko is concerned, other cuts and savings there are, one of the things that concerns me is this centralisation of health care and the savings that will be applied for, about EUR 200 million will come. Perhaps the biggest single action in this area is the concentration of special care, that is to say, the dismantling of regional hospitals, which is at least a sad, important issue for me. However, it now seems that this decision is leading to congested on-calls and prolonged queues, and I have not quite been able to find out where these savings are coming from. Could you, Minister Risikko — Saarikko — open it a little further? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u169	Madam President! As was the case in Question Time, it is often the case that the status of those groups of people who are most vulnerable is only spoken of as benefits and their index freezes, but I think it is equally important to consider the condition in which the services that are paid for from tax resources are in the same way and what is done to them, because I see that often timely, high-quality and accessible services help precisely those groups of people who are weaker. Now I am talking about the status of children and families. I would like to ask Minister Saarikko: How is the programme for modernising the services of children and families? What are we going to do about it now, and how is it going? I understand that we all have great expectations about this and that is something that is certainly important in this 100-year-old Finland for those small-born and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u170	Mr President! The care of the elderly speaks much of us in this Chamber. After all, our focus on care for the elderly has shifted considerably from institutional care to home care. Older people who are worse off are in home care, and at times it feels that some of the elderly are in prison at home when they are unable to move properly. Do you think that this budget has given sufficient attention to increasing the resources for home care and developing services? On the other hand, it also seems that for many people the place in institutional care today is a lottery win, that they can access the services. But here again, in the budget book, there is a review of quality recommendations for elderly services, followed by a reduction of EUR 4.2 million. I would have asked how these quality recommendations are being reviewed and how this amount will be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u171	Mr President! Here in the administrative sector of the STM there is one such time harsh phrase: "The implementation of the three-pronged equal pay programme with the social partners will continue." I do not mean that it is not good that the work continues, but nothing else is said about this equal pay programme. So I ask the Minister now: what does this continuation of work mean in concrete terms, that is, how is this equal pay to be promoted in concrete terms in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u172	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Who is allowed to perform day surgery in the future, this is a hot question at the moment. Many cities have asked the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health whether the local hospital can continue with day surgery after the turn of the year, and many have also asked whether day surgery can be obtained from private operators. The response from the Ministry has been harsh, it has been negative. The losers in this matter are the regional cities such as Kouvola, Forssa, Kemi, Pietarsaari, Rauma and others. Is the whole government aware that in practice the Ministry also intends to restrict the right of the private side to perform daily surgery? There would be no surgery that requires more than local anesthetics, such as children’s ear tubing, gallstone surgery, hernia surgery and so on, and this is now due to the fact that anesthetic surgery can only be performed in hospitals with primary health care and special medical care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u173	Mr President! First of all, good Memory Week for everyone! We are celebrating Memory Week, and I am glad that we have a minister who knows well about the Memory Federation and its operation. That is why I would like to ask Minister Saarikko directly how we could together influence two major problems in the life of people with memory disorders. Firstly, in many places home care resources are completely inadequate, night care is not available, and transport services are not provided to people with memory disorders. Secondly, there are people living at home with memory disorders whose real place of residence is no longer a home, humanly speaking, but a community home. What does next year's budget bring to improve the situation of people with memory problems, and what ideas or future plans does Minister Saarikko have for improving the situation of people with memory problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u174	Madam President! Thank you, Minister. The introduction to this main area highlights the promotion of health and the reduction of differences in health and well-being. We can see from the budget how the vast majority of expenditure goes to health and social care, and good services must be secured. The budget is aimed at ensuring good preparation of the roads, both nationally and in the provinces, and it also requires a good research and expert base and an information system mentioned by the Minister. But during this huge sote-souv, one can only hope that the STM side will have enough time for a good health policy, which is by far the most cost-effective and sustainable way of achieving these goals. It concerns issues such as combating young people's problems or indoor and outdoor problems, tobacco, alkoho-li-li, nutrition, physical activity and mental health, and in this respect, when this debate took place in the early part of the week, it was encouraging. It should also be borne in mind that harmful taxes are an effective instrument which is well maintained in this budget, for example in relation to tobacco and alcohol taxes. I know these aren't S.M.'s business,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u175	Madam Speaker! Today, during Question Time, there was a long debate on how government cuts are largely directed towards the same groups of people, especially older people, pensioners, those living alone. This was confirmed this week by the Finnish Labour Institute, which calculated that the most important benefit of government policy was the well-earned couple, whose purchasing power will increase most of the citizens this year and next year, while the purchasing power of single-parent families and the pensioner couple will decline most. In other words, this unequal policy, which was discussed today, is indeed true, according to various researchers. In the field of equality, the government has also taken a step backwards this season. That is why I am now asking the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health: when it is said here in the yellow budget book, which we have been given, that 'the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will coordinate:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u176	Mr President! Home care for the elderly and self-care for all ages is one of the top government projects. Change agents have been appointed to the provinces, and the work is done by field personnel. In Päijät-Häme in particular, this work has started well and the change agents have been active, so that I would not say that I was a pioneer, and this has also included the third sector in the area of informal care and its professional skills. That's a very great thing. In the meantime, the greetings of a family carer who has already received such a good service: the services work and, thanks to the Veteran and Family Care vouchers, he has been able to spend these very necessary days of care. The need for help, especially for older people, may increase slowly and undetected, so the need for help from a family carer can indeed be great. But we have a lot of these elderly people who work as family carers, and we can also reform the security system from time to time. I would have asked: could it be thought that the basic salary of carers, less than EUR 400 a month, could be such,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u177	Mr President! On this theme of inequality, I too would like to continue, because it is clear that the objectives of health care, prevention, early intervention, will become more difficult when inequalities in society are growing. Now, of course, the situation is that, among other things, the Prime Minister: Sipilä himself admitted that this budget will increase inequality. I would like to return to that question-hour theme of combating poverty for pensioners, for example. In the summer, the chairman of the central parliamentary group, Mr Kaikonen, called for substantial increases in the guarantee pension and extensive measures to combat pensioner poverty. I was very disappointed when I saw this budget book — there were no such measures, nothing for those receiving a small earnings-related pension, an apparent increase in the guaranteed pension, which is eaten away by index cuts. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: would you, however, like to take up this idea of combating pensioner poverty and improving the financial position of small pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u178	Mr President! First of all, I should like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that the very narrow budgetary frameworks have identified the right priorities where good, small increases have been made. It's been important. The second question is, to which reference was made, that when we carry out major reforms and reforms in the health sector, in a way, are already progressing on the basis of the health law — we do not yet have any social services here — what is this effectiveness, what are the costs? By this I refer to day surgery and the effects of the discontinuation of day surgery in the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi, perhaps even more so to the night emergency services of basic health care at the borders of the provinces. When there are hospitals on the border of the provinces and if overnight emergency services are stopped from both sides of the border, it will be more than 100 kilometres away from people for night emergency services, and that is no longer economically justified, since those ambulance trips will cost between EUR 500 and EUR 1000 per person. If one or two can be avoided per day, then it will be economical to arrange that night duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u179	Mr President! Today we are celebrating the World’s Alzheimer’s Day, and especially for people with memory disorders, it was great that we, together, came up with the top project of home care for the elderly and family care for all ages. It's moving on. But what is very unfortunate is that although the provinces are so different in size, these change agents, the resources for this change, have always been given per province. There are 1650,000 people in Uusimaa, and we have two people working. I would like the Minister to consider that the large provinces would not be discriminated against here, but that resources would be allocated on a population-based basis. Parliament has already pointed out that the criteria for the freedom of choice pilots had been set in such a way that the large provinces would be excluded. So now we have to see that the provinces are treated equally. I believe this will be done. And then the hospice. It is great that there will be a million euros to put it into circulation, but I would like to see the hospice law considered. It seems that the challenges and inequalities are so great that a hospice law is needed in Finland. Is the Minister prepared to take it forward? And thank you very much for this money, has done a great job for the entire government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u180	Mr President! First of all, I have to thank you for making a little more money for the shelters. But it must be said right away that it is still inadequate in relation to what we have. The network of shelters is few, and in a country of long distances it should definitely be more dense. I would like this pace to be faster in these respects, so that we can get this right. Then I would have asked about this family leave reform, which has been told that you ministers will be preparing for it. It is important that it takes account of the gender perspective, the possibility of freedom of choice for families and flexibility, and that the labour market position of women in particular should be improved. We know that fathers spend only 9% of these optional family leave and this has remained the same. That is why it is important to increase the quota. But now that it has been said that there will be no more money and no overall reduction in the length of the money, how is it possible to reform these family leave so that these goals can be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u181	Värderade Talman! The government's plans include the reform of family leave, even though no budget money has been proposed for this project. That is why I fear that this will only be a surface scrape, even though raising women's employment, the possibility for fathers to care for their own children and the right of children to early education would require radical reform. In Finland, only about 75 per cent of children participate in early childhood education. This is alarming given the importance of early childhood education for the learning, social skills and development of the child. Therefore, Minister, should this aspect be included in this overall reform and ensure quality early childhood education for all children over the age of three regardless of their parents' financial situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u182	Mr President! The government deserves to be commended for finally deciding to implement the reform of family leave, which has been the long-term objective of the coalition. Reform is needed to increase flexibility and freedom of choice in the everyday life of families and to improve employment and the position of women in working life. The Coalition Party has proposed its own model as new family leave. Our model is based on the child's advantage and perfectly meets all the framework conditions set by the government in the budget debate for reform. The possibility of caring for a child until the age of 3 will be maintained at home while increasing the incentive to work and the flexibility of everyday life. I really encourage the government in this important reform. The renovation of family leave is good news for families. My question is: what other plans does the government have for facilitating the reconciliation of everyday life and working life in families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u183	Mr President! During Question Time, we had a long discussion about pensioner poverty. When we discussed the indexation of occupational pensions in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and what they are based on, the kind of indices in which occupational pensions are made up, we learned from experts that the income level of low-income pensioners can best be increased by raising the guarantee pension. Its effect is ten times that of index increases. Since the elderly suffer from a great deal, it is to them that care fees, travel expenses and medical expenses represent an annual cost of more than EUR 1600, I would ask: can we then go back to raising the guarantee pension? Is there EUR 60 to 80 million within the government in order to reach this level proposed by Mr Kaikkonen? How can poor pensioners as a whole and their income formation best be assessed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u184	Let us take the representatives of Kankaanniemi and Ojala-Niemelä, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u185	Mr President! In the two autumns, when we have dealt with the section of the Finance Committee in the STM section, we have provided support for, among other things, university-level health research and substance abuse mothers. We should now thank the government for including these in the actual budget, and then we will no longer have to think about them in that regard. But, in this budget, we have a big question — and I am sure that the committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and we in the section, will have to address it — the problem of poverty and the problem of the accumulation of cuts that have already been made. There is really no solution to this. I hope that the Ministry will give us an indication of how to move forward. Mr President! One big question at the moment is that when the social welfare reform was postponed, almost every mayor
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u186	Madam President! We too in Lapland are in pain with this social welfare reform. We have two hospital districts, and the population base is barely enough for any of us. And this is particularly true in the West of the North, because the pressures of this concentration regulation are high: 20% of cuts would go away, 800 jobs. In addition, there is nursing training in Kemi. This would have a spill-over effect on wards and outpatient clinics. Now there is also this incorporation solution, to which the previous speaker referred, on the table. I hope that a uniform regional solution will be found here. Your predecessor, Minister Rehula, agreed to become a midwife in this matter. I'm asking you, Minister Ri... From the island
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u187	Minister Saarikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u188	Mr President! I am simply flattered if my name is confused with the government's long-standing and excellent minister Risikko. But Minister Saarikko will answer what time he can. Thank you for the inspiring and expert questions about this role of the administrative sector. I'll answer anything I can. I'll start here at the end. As far as Lapland is concerned, I agree exactly. I really hope that there will be a rural thinking that goes over the old hospital district. In this respect, I will also meet with representatives from the West Ostrobothnia Hospital next week. Representative for the Kankaanniemi: For these mayors and municipal decision-makers, I would like to note the company papers on his desk: patience and foresight! Then there were questions, at least from Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, about the government's equality policy. It was an important question and I think it is good that these issues too are strongly on the government agenda. Firstly, I slightly disagree that, yes, the gender impact has been assessed in a number of parts of the legislation, however. I know that the gender equality unit of the STM will meet all government ministers as far as possible during this autumn and discuss gender issues in each administrative sector. That's the first thing. Equality is not only part of social and health policy but also part of all policies. In education policy, for example, it is a very central issue. This gender impact assessment has also been carried out in the regional reform of social welfare and health care. If you look at individual decisions that I am happy to be proud of seeing the effects of gender equality, it is listed in the criteria for family leave reform and this decision to finance shelters that emerged during the debate is one important act of sex, which has also been estimated to have significant effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u191	Then we will continue with the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u192	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Saarikko, for today's good decision on veteran money. This is what we have to do. When there is a need for these honorable citizens, then money must be found. Today, the government has increased it by EUR 11.6 million to ensure that every veteran of war is treated. Less than 17,000 veterans are still alive in our wars, 2,500 of them war veterans, over 92 years of age, and in less than ten years' time there will be only over 1,000 left. This is the right time to deal with these issues in exactly the way we deal with this budget, which we are discussing today for next year. For the first time in history, the proposal is directly, automatically, the euro at the level it needs to be, and for this I would like to thank Minister Saarikko very much. So every veteran gets next year with his spouse.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u193	Mr President! It is indeed a joy to hear — and a good feeling in the heart — Minister Saariko’s enthusiasm for his mission, and I am sure that those powers are needed, and I can assure you that in this House, too, they can be found across party boundaries, especially in the area of equality, in the women’s network. I would like to call for the strength of the 1990s, which we could perhaps still be stronger in this game of power between men and women from the budget, which is reflected, for example, in the time of asylums, it is said, in a modest increase, although that is good. My question is another such tragedy in which I myself failed 15 years ago: when the Minister spoke so well that we want to improve the position of the most vulnerable and families with children in relation to child supplements and single parents, is it now the case that this coordination of income support is compatible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u194	Madam President! I am glad that we have discussed equality and the issue of informal care today. I would like to remind you, therefore, that three quarters of the family carers are women and that the sexualisation of nursing work in general has major economic implications. I am particularly concerned about women aged 45 or over who are concerned about the chain of generations, both children and their own parents. Ministers, what can we do about this? Yesterday, in the debate at the Ministry of Finance, most of them were men and the speeches were made by men. There are a lot more women in the Chamber today, that's fine, but this isn't right. This isn't even. What do we do?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u195	Mr President! There are very good things in the government budget proposal that have already been discussed on many occasions in relation to the guarantee pension, the increase in the various benefits for families with children, the increase in the minimum sickness allowance and so on. There's been a debate here about equal pay. The Minister responded very well, but I will increase the pressure on the labour market. There these decisions must be made together. If there is no will, then this goal will not be fulfilled. Then the question of what will happen after this health care law and the on-call regulation. There is now only a great risk that, when these decisions are taken under the leadership of the hospital districts, we will have regional hospitals that are not part of the hospital district, but also that there will easily be a situation in the entire district of the hospital district that there will be no more than one emergency clinic for special medical care in that central hospital. Health centre level emergency services are being removed from Varsinais-Suomi at night and night, at least as far as I understand. My question is: how does the Minister now monitor the impact of these on-call regulations and health care legislation from the point of view of patient safety? That's the biggest threat. We cannot justify savings if patient safety
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u196	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture for providing pilot funding for the establishment of a national neuro centre in Kuopio. This neurocentre will play an important role in strengthening health policy research, health research and innovation activities, which are also of international importance. However, I would like to ask the ministers how we can ensure that the money invested in research will in future also become innovations, commercial products and increase our economy while, at the same time, reducing funding for scientific research in health sciences. The budget cannot be allocated only for a short time, but long-term sustainability is the principle by which such research should be supported in the future. I would also like to thank you for your efforts in hospice care. However, the truth is that in the context of the social welfare reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u197	Madam President! Minister! The key theme of the SDP in family policy is to enable high-quality early childhood education for all children. As a party, we have set ourselves the goal of free early childhood education at the party meeting as early as 2008. Now, to my delight, I noticed that the Government's budget proposal for 2018 and 2019 includes an extensive experiment on free early childhood education for 5-year-olds, together with willing municipalities, and the government has reserved EUR 5 million of state funding for this experiment. I have been asked questions other than from my own home town, how and when to apply for this possible experiment, and now I ask the Minister whether there is any clarity about this timetable, and at what point, perhaps, this experiment will become something on the Ministry's website?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u198	Mr President! I am very pleased with the strengthening of funding for the Mother and Child Homes and Shelters. It has always been tried here for years, and now clearly the trend is rising. There are, of course, many other measures to be taken if we want to live in the spirit of the Istanbul agreement. We need to be able to create systems that prevent domestic violence, domestic violence, violence in general. In this respect, municipalities also play a key role in preventive work. Some municipalities have gone to do this work. Similarly, the treatment of substance abuse mothers, EUR 3 million, is excellent money. We know how excellent the service is for mothers in this drug abuse mother care program, and we know how valuable it is, of course, for future generations, but even more early support and since the clinics, this will make a good whole. Is there anything else coming? I'm not talking about money. I'm talking about this service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u199	Mr President! I am very pleased that the new Minister for the Family, Saarikko, has taken on the task of making a family leave reform. This must be done precisely in the light of child and family considerations and the needs of families in the forefront. But I have received a lot of feedback that the sharing of parenting costs should continue to be discussed. The government has already given a hand-in-hand view of the fact that the costs of parenting are shared between employers and that the government is also investing in it, but we hope that we will also continue to discuss these costs with the social partners. To eliminate family poverty, the government makes an insane list of improving the benefits of children and families. Early childhood education fees will be reduced, free early childhood education will be tested, maternity kits will be increased, minimum maternity, paternity, parental money will be increased, the list will be very long. The list and the job look good now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u200	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, I believe that the budget for this administrative sector is well-assessed. This is a huge whole, here you can see both your handprint. Of course, there are pain points here. In fact, the worst pain point here is that these certain cuts, which the government has done, are directed at a certain small number, and it is again visible in the lowest income decile, which is, in a way, losing the most here. So, what can we do about this? If you look at the rise in housing costs, on the other hand, it is reflected in the huge housing allowance expenditure that is being paid in this administrative sector. This is a huge package, but how did you think about this? Mr Kankaanniemi has already asked this question, but it did not quite come up in this reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u201	Madam President! When Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen reminded us in a commendable way of Memory Day and Memory Care, I would now like to remind the demersals: for example, Mr Salonen here wondered what the money has been cut off by veterans. Of course, the veteran money was reduced as veterans moved from time to time, but now more money came and everything, even the veteran widows, will be better taken into the rehabilitation field. So why are you digging through these old things without telling people the truth? Well, let's just remember, I'm here to celebrate Memory Day, and I want to tell you a few things: When you were in charge of the government at the time, the finances of the municipalities collapsed by nearly 2 billion — almost 2 billion of the municipalities’ central government shares went away in 2015 levels. This led to the fact that the municipalities were not then able to provide services when many municipalities were threatened with closure when the economy went downhill. This is why I'd like you to have a little more constructive grip. I ask Minister Saarikko: as the reform of social services progresses, what is the way in which it is handled then in long distances municipalities, where there is hardly any market-based competition?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u202	Mr President! When we got to know next year’s budget, officials specifically told us that there were going to be cuts for veterans. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u203	Mr President! I'm asking about the relationship between the social welfare reform and the municipalities. There is a broad view, but at the same time a misconception, that the municipalities have been put out of the process of managing this social reform and this subject, while it is still very strong that prevention is the responsibility of the municipalities and cities themselves. That prevention is, in fact, a matter of extreme importance in the long run in this whole social work — a matter of extreme importance also from the point of view of the adequacy of the money. My question now to the Minister is: how do you see the present state of the matter, whether this matter has been taken up in the municipalities as it should be, and whether it would be necessary for the government to pay even more attention to this matter in the face of the war than has been done so far?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u204	President! I would like to thank Minister Saarikko for this good answer, and I am glad that care for the elderly will not be weakened even if the quality recommendation is reviewed. The term seems a little funny when quality recommendations are reviewed and we all know that this will lead to a deterioration in services. But I would have liked a little more concrete in your answer: where will this EUR 4.2 million savings come from in the end? I understand that digitalisation and robotisation are today and the future, but it does not replace people in nursing. Is it possible, then, that students or some other professional groups working in a hospital may be included in this dimension in the future? I think that is a very worrying direction, if that is what is going on. In my opinion, skilled staff are care for the elderly and o.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u205	Mr President! I'd go back to this old-timer care, too. After all, the old - age service law has now been followed and observed in what way it works in the practical field. I understand that the feedback has been precisely that there is still a need for further action on home care in order to have enough hand pairs to help. It is also the feedback you get from the family, and even from the elderly people who have it: the nurse’s time is very fast and the nurse comes whenever it hurts — she has so many things to take care of that she may not always keep the same time. What could be done with the problem of the patient there at home, or the elderly old man, facing the nurse and the nurse with enough time? As far as the nursing allowance is concerned, it is still very low. So if we had the resources, I'd be happy to raise it. How do you feel about when we say in Finland that we are raising the nurse’s standards?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u206	Madam President! It is a very happy thing that babies born in Finland have a gift from the budget during the centenary year of Finland. Finnish innovation, maternity kit, will be increased by EUR 30. This is a $1.6 million investment for babies. Minister, I am a little curious about that gift, so what is the content of this gift, how is this package to be developed now? What is new with this 30 euros per pack?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u207	President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Saarikko for answering questions and listening. Then I will return to this Health Care Act. In his blog, Niilo Keränen, a representative of the Centre Party, wrote about not a year ago but a few months ago: "After his statements, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health made an alternative model for the operation of small hospitals. In the model, the Ministry could have granted, under certain conditions, an exemption for the continuation of the operation. This was supported by many representatives of the city centre and the people of Peru. The same representatives also supported the inclusion of Vaasa as the 13th large-scale emergency care hospital. The brutality of the multi-party government is that the representatives of the Third Government did not agree to change the government's original proposal. The Coalition Party won from 1 to 2." Minister Saarikko, can you confirm that this was the case? Does the whole government know that hospital network contractions also mean significant restrictions on day-care surgery on the private side? Are the bee, the health house,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u208	Mr President! Minister, I would like to thank you for the fact that the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has the start of the work of the licensing authority that manages the use of social welfare data. The Data Protection Supervisor has drawn attention to the fact that the use and traditions of social and health information are very sensitive. Is this mandate now also about this preparation, or is it just about scientific research, as you mentioned in your introductory statement, or is it also about preparing for social reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u209	Mr President! I'm going back to the memory-disease situation for a while. There are 193 000 of them in Finland, which is not a small marginal group. The majority of these memory sufferers are able to cope with help and support at home, and home care can be supported excellently, for example, through transport services. Many people with memory problems cannot afford to pay for a taxi themselves, and for many, the use of public transportation is difficult and even impossible. However, going outside the home is a fundamental human right, regardless of wealth. So now I ask: why is the government excluding the memory sick from the new disability service law, even though the memory-disadvantaged people are also internationally classified as disabled? For low-income memory sufferers, this would mean staying inside four walls, since unfortunately the old-age service law does not guarantee adequate transport services for memory sufferers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u210	Mr President! This section largely touches on the entire human life cycle. As has been said here, the maternity kit is unique, I say, almost throughout the world: the Finnish model packaging has been tried in 30 different countries, and now on this side of the year for example: This will be introduced in Scotland. It is also commendable that additional money is being taken into care for substance abuse mothers. But at the same time as the good time before, as they say, was this family work and we know that when a child is born, every family is not prepared to accept that child well: is there any way that this family work could be done in the interests of prevention? This is still needed in many municipalities. Similarly, what is this hospice law in the future? It has been a very good experience, the whole hospice treatment. For example, I got to know each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u211	Before the Minister, Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u212	Madam Speaker! Here we have ignored hospice treatment and whether a separate hospice law is needed. It is really great that EUR 1 million is invested in equal access to hospice care throughout Finland. I studied this issue in the spring when this issue of euthanasia arose and the researchers at the University of Eastern Finland worked on this. They consider it essential that pain treatment, palliative care and hospice care be brought from the current specialist studies of care professionals to basic studies and training. This would be essential for everyone to be able to do so in the future, so that it can be provided through professional competence and not by law in this society. I would like to ask the Minister, as I am also asking a written question about this: how could you influence the Ministry of Education to see that this issue is addressed at the right level?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u213	Minister Saarikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u214	Mr President! Thank you for the good supplementary questions. I'll answer whatever I have time for. Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, first of all. Your claim was very hard, related to the availability of memory-disadvantaged services. I dare say that there is no memory disorder to be excluded from the services. I am very grateful for the expertise and expertise you yourself have given both as a Member of Parliament and as Chairman of the Memory Union to raise this issue at national level, and I have learned a great deal from you in this regard. It is also very important to me, and I think so, and I would like to verify the state of the current system, that the difficulties that have come now with ageing are not grounds for access to services under the Disability Act, that is, the majority of services are organised under the Social Welfare Act, regardless of age or diagnosis. But this is a very difficult question, and here we are also drawing a line between the broad legal frameworks of elderly services, disability services and the Social Welfare Act for these people. Even in the previous round of speeches, a few comments on family leave. There have been public listings of the themes that the government in the budget debate fits into the framework of the reforms, and that whole package, just as Mr Mikkonen said for a very long time now: it is not in any way easy to reconcile all these values and the facts in euro and the real ambitions that the reform has, particularly in this timetable, but we are doing our best in this respect. And since I know that, in fact, all the parliamentary groups have represented themselves and wanted to take a position on this issue, as chairman of this family leave group, together with colleagues Mattila and Grahn-Laasonen, we have just yesterday agreed that, as part of the start of the work, we will convene all the parliamentary groups, and we would like to hear your views at such a hearing, which feeds and hopes you will put in favour of this reform. So the invitation follows for further discussion on this subject. This also touches on the role of early childhood education. That is one part of the criteria for this reform. And with regard to this free trial by Mr Taimela, this whole issue is the responsibility of the Minister for Education in the state budget, including in relation to this important decision, to reduce early childhood education fees. I think that Mr Kääriäinen and Mr Puska, both of them, in their speeches, were very grateful for the big picture of this social and health policy, that is, that it is still a matter of systems and technological development today, and with them, of health promotion and public health work and, yes, the municipalities have a new role to play in it. I myself have thought that I see our political decision-makers always talking about social welfare reform in a very system-based way and telling us about the responsibilities of organisation. In future, I will try to translate my own remarks into starting with the responsibility of the municipalities, because it is still the primary task, to be responsible for ensuring that there is not even so much need for social and health care. And we know the important effects of health promotion, for example, from the point of view of public illness, diabetes or also mental health, until the fight against loneliness, big social themes. Mr Anttila and again Mr Henriksson, you raised the issue of the division of duties in this special treatment, the status of regional hospitals and also central hospitals. Yes, the position of the Ministry on private status and the same criteria is, I understand, a public document, and I say this out loud as the position of the STM on the interpretation of that legislation. And, Mr Anttila, I have been very aware and interested in what is happening in these provincial emergency centres that have now been moved to one place. The role of emergency care will be increasingly important in the future, and it is a good thing that hospital districts have invested in it, but I know that we have areas where night duty is congested, and, yes, I have sent questions to these areas and I have hoped for an explanation of these. At the same time, however, I hope that we, like Mrs Kääriäinen and Mr Puska, will be able to move strongly towards welfare and prevention and safeguard the local network of health care services at the heart of this whole system, because that is what the social welfare reform is all about. You also inquired about the hospice law. I very much recognise that several parliamentary groups or individual MPs have taken legislative initiatives on this issue. I think they need to be carefully assessed, and for this, as if the first step is the national criteria and this appropriation, which will allow these criteria to be spread to the work of the field. There were also a number of questions about family services. The government’s leading project — that is, long before the agreement on the reform of the family leave — has been to invest in the preventive work of the municipal home, that is, families, and the clinics, which are familiar to Finns, are at the heart of this work, so that they become family centres for preventive work, too, so that the contributions of the organisations are closely involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u215	We will continue to deal with the affairs of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Secretary Mattila, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u216	Mr President! For me too, good Memory Week for everyone! — — — — But then to this draft budget. In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health's proposal for 2018, attention has been paid to the promotion of employment and the livelihood of the most vulnerable. This can be seen, among other things, in the form of increases in minimum sickness allowance and guarantee pension and in the form of reforms of unemployment benefit. The share of the administrative sector in the state budget proposal for next year is EUR 15 billion, which is just over a quarter of the state budget. The draft budget is EUR 361 million higher than the actual budget for 2017. The increase in expenditure is due, among other things, to the exercise of freedom of choice and the changes in needs and the impact of some previous decisions on 2018, such as the Competitiveness Agreement and the transfer of students to general housing allowance. Pension provision will be improved by allocating EUR 18 million to the increase in the guaranteed pension and related benefits. The guarantee pension is estimated to have a net impact of between EUR 7 and EUR 8 per month. Similarly, the rehabilitation allowance for young people and the minimum amount of rehabilitation paid during vocational rehabilitation will be increased in order to promote the employment of those who are able to work part-time. The basic allowance for care allowance for pensioners will also be increased to around EUR 70 per month, which will increase central government expenditure by around EUR 10 million. Support will help people with disabilities or long-term ill to cope with everyday life. In order to safeguard the primacy of basic security in relation to income support, the minimum amount of sickness allowance, parental allowance and rehabilitation allowance will be increased. This is to ensure that the beneficiary does not have to rely on basic income support. The increase will increase central government expenditure by EUR 8 million. As a result of the liberalisation of taxi services, travel expenses and travel brokerage activities will be renewed from July 2018. An additional amount of EUR 2 million has been earmarked for this. In health insurance, the biggest change in euro is due to the effects of the competitiveness agreement. Under the agreement, the reduction in the employer's social security contribution and the reduction in the contribution burden for the low-income employees will increase the need for funding by EUR 136 million. A good EUR 181 million will be allocated to support veterans, of which EUR 32.7 million will be allocated to the rehabilitation of front veterans. Mr President! An amount of EUR 2.7 billion is proposed for unemployment benefit, which is EUR 168 million less than in the 2017 actual budget. This is mainly due to the projected fall in the unemployment rate. In order to increase employment, the so-called 'active model' will be introduced during the days of ownership. The reform is expected to reduce the need for appropriations by EUR 9.5 million in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The active model also encourages unemployed people to work and participate in employment-promoting services for a short period of time. The number of days at the start of unemployment is reduced from 7 to 5 days. The reference period for unemployment is 3 months, and each time you look at it, unemployment benefits become one monthly special day, which can be avoided by being active. The activity requirement is met if you are employed for one week or a total of 18 hours during the reference period or 5 days in a job-promoting service. Business start-ups during unemployment will also be facilitated in order to promote employment. In addition, short-term studies will be made possible without losing unemployment benefit, which will promote vocational capacity-building and business start-ups. These changes will increase the appropriation requirement by EUR 13.5 million. An appropriation of EUR 4.0 million has been provided for the development of vocational rehabilitation and the renewal of the criteria. In addition, the appropriation for the wage subsidy will be increased by EUR 14.1 million. Mr President! An amount of EUR 182 million is proposed for the operating expenditure of the administrative agencies and institutions of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which takes into account the savings measures of approximately EUR 3 million in total. The institutional structure of the administrative sector will be developed by combining the Social Security Appeal Board and the Employment Protection Appeal Board into a joint social security appeal board. EUR 358 million will be allocated to grants to promote health and social well-being through the Social Welfare and Health Care Centre (STEA). This is EUR 40 million more than in the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u217	We now have the opportunity to ask for answers to this issue. They'll begin with Congressman Paloniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u218	Mr President! According to a survey conducted by the Vates Foundation, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has not yet contributed to the equality of access to employment or studies for persons with disabilities. The disability pact is not yet known, and people with mental disabilities, for example, still have little employment in paid employment. More than 2,000 of them are currently working unpaid, even if they have the capacity to work specifically. It is partly a question of negative attitudes, but also of lack of knowledge and understanding. So I ask you, Minister Mattila: What has the government done or is doing specifically to improve the employment of people with disabilities? After all, we are also on the road to working life for part-time workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u219	Mr President! If a low-income pensioner goes to hospital, gets a new medication, comes home and feels that this medicine does not work, gets a doctor again, then gets a new medication, has to change it, at the worst, still travels with taxis to these services and home, then all this costs this low-income pensioner way too much. Minister Mattila, you have the opportunity to look at this whole package, i.e. the accumulation of various expenses, especially for people with low incomes. Now that the national pension is being cut by 240 euros, there is no longer room for a low-income pensioner to suffer in Finland. Minister Mattila, can you now promise that this will be corrected from this proposed budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u220	Mr President! The volume of Evo funding for university hospitals has continued to decline. There is a strong shortage of specialists in Finland, and university hospitals and universities are struggling with insufficient resources to get enough specialists in critical areas such as cancer, physiology and psychiatry in the future. In addition, specialisation in occupational health care and general medicine has become more difficult as short-term so-called specialisation tasks are difficult to obtain due to a lack of resources. How can it be justified that the funding of Evo state co-financing is not in line with the real need, because the consequences for the failure of our health system are serious?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u221	Mr President! When the students were transferred to the general housing allowance, there was great concern here in the hall as to whether this means that the total housing allowance expenditure will be calculated because a large number of new recipients of housing allowance were transferred. It is now seen in this budget that this is actually happening, that is to say that EUR 40 million is being cut from housing aid. It is already known at this stage that, in practice, part of this savings will come under income support because these people, whose housing allowance will be reduced, will then have to apply for income support and it is estimated that it will talk about around EUR 12 million. This is a crazy saving, especially since we know that people who are covered by income support are in an extremely big trap that they should not make money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u222	Mr President! As a result of the decisions of the Sipilä Government, the purchasing power of almost all pensions has been weakened. The impact of government policy is clearly increasing pensioner poverty, and those with a pension of less than EUR 1000 have lost most. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kaikonen, under the budget line, proposed a substantial increase in the guarantee pension of around EUR 40 to EUR 50, but it shrunk quite considerably in the budget line. What kind of conversation did you have in the budget debate? Was this even a bigger deal? Now this increase is about 15 euros, and what is left of it? Do you think, Minister, that this is an adequate level and an adequate increase for pensioners on very low incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u223	Mr President! The Government proposes to increase the guarantee pension by EUR 15. I do not think that this is enough. Those who live on bail are among the most vulnerable in our society, and they need to be taken better care of. This group of people is also among those whose expenditure is largely due to medical costs. With regard to the fact that we have one roof for medicines, one roof for travel costs and one roof for customer fees, I ask you, Minister: could we have a common ceiling for all these payments in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u224	Mr President! Minister, you were talking about this active model. I would like to ask whether you have sufficient clarifications already in place to ensure that it actually increases employment, or whether there will only be mandatory measures. However, the unemployed do not particularly need them anymore. Then there was the question of these pension issues during Question Time, and I would raise the question of pension differences. We have very large differences in pensions, and now that income differentials are on the increase, do you have plans to equalise differences in pensions within systems so that large pensions would be cut and then smaller ones could be raised? That would be fair, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u225	Mr President! I am not at all convinced that I am thanking the right Minister, but thank you in any case for this appropriation of EUR 200,000 from the Foundation for Nursing Research. This is precisely the kind of work that needs to be done by the Nursing Research Foundation, i.e. to produce evidence-based activities to enhance the effectiveness of health care and specifically invest in prevention. I have to say that your appetite grows when you eat, so there is still a difference of more than EUR 500,000 between what you eat and what you eat. I looked at that budget book. But in any case this is the first time that this Nursing In this way, the very impressive activities of the Research Foundation are already recognised in this budget book. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u226	Mr President! The negative effects of inequality have also begun to be reflected in the growth of both income and health inequalities in Finland. As regards the increase in health inequalities, the age of men is already 12 years apart depending on the region of residence, the type of education and the level of income. Thus, the better off will live 12 years longer than a man with a weaker education, income or a worse housing area. The government currently has a leading project aimed at promoting healthy lifestyles, strengthening mental health, combating loneliness and reducing these health inequalities. Can you, Minister Mattila, tell us what concreteness this major project has brought?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u227	Mr President! During this term of government, there have been a lot of simultaneous cuts in low incomes. Today's oral Question Time well highlighted the fact that the cuts in basic safety, the cuts in medical and travel costs, the cuts in housing allowance and these cuts in the services of the elderly, all of them target the same population, as it were, and are a decisive obstacle to the position of these people. It has been reported that more and more speed levers have to be taken into ordinary everyday spending, such as medicine and housing. It would be easier if we had a common ceiling for customer fees and for medical and travel expenses, which would simultaneously accumulate the sum of all these, so that the low-income person would have to pay less for himself than at present. I would like to ask the Minister whether there has been a study in the Ministry of Justice of such a common charge for pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u228	Once again, Mr Heinonen, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u229	Mr President! We have a group of young people and children in Finland who have experienced severe functional disorders: chronic fatigue, muscular weakness and the like. In many cases, there are vague symptoms. As immunodeficiency patients, some have been treated, but our public medical care and health care have treated them through mental symptoms. I understand, Minister Mattila, that an impartial study group has been set up at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to investigate this situation. The situation is worrying: we have a group of children and young people who are currently not receiving treatment, and when parents seek treatment for them — such as IVIG, which helps them, for example — they are subject to child protection reports, assault reports and so on. This is an intolerable situation, and I would like the Minister to be able to shed some light on this here at the sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u230	Minister Mattila, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u231	Mr President! Thank you for your questions. First of all, I will start with that good question from Mrs Paloniemi. Indeed, the disability pact has been ratified and, of course, this service system will develop slightly in the aftermath too, of course, some of which will be able to be answered immediately. But important is the employment of all these people who are able to work part-time, because they are quite a diverse group, but this one group you raised, the mentally disabled, is important. We have a follow-up to the Osku project, OTE, this part-time workable project, which I am sure we will only get better results in the course of next year. But I would like to assure you that these projects are in progress, that we have competence coordinator training, which has been extremely popular throughout Finland, and this issue has been addressed, is being taken forward. Well, then, Mr Salonen, you raised these questions for low-income pensioners as to whether the government proposal can now be withdrawn. Of course, I cannot say that this is where the government proposal would be changed. The Government proposal is moving forward, it will be discussed in Parliament. As I have said, it is quite clearly described there in the explanatory statement as to what this freezing of the index means, and this government proposal will then also be evaluated by the Constitutional Committee in due course. Representative Raassina, inadequate training and Evo funding for doctors: Specialists are needed, we need high-quality specialist training, of course those specialist doctors. I did not fully recognise this impasse for this money or perhaps I misunderstood the question, but we can come back to that. However, I have also received positive and thanks for the Evo funding from that field as well. Well then, Mr Mikkonen, the transfer of students to the general housing allowance and whether we will then transfer to a few people for income support when that primary benefit is not sufficient: After all, it is quite obvious that we should have the primary benefit that covers its livelihood, its living, and that is what the government has been trying to correct, among other things, in this increase in the minimum daily allowance, so that the primary benefit is the one in which the citizen gets along. We need the social security reform at some point where this well-intentioned but complicated social security system will be reformed. Well then, Mr Pekonen, Mrs Kaikonen has indeed become famous, there has been a call in this Chamber for where Mrs Kaikonen was when that budget was made. However, it was a good thing that Mr Kaikkonen raised this guarantee pension and has now been raised. You don't always get everything you ask, but I'm glad you've done that raise. I agree with Mrs Talja on the study that raising the guarantee pension is the best way to influence the position of low-income pensioners. More than one question concerned this common ceiling. We've been working on that. This is on Minister Saariko's table or in the Rootel, but I am going to say that this is absolutely worth exploring. It certainly requires the harmonisation of information systems, it certainly needs to be started and then seen how to make this kind of common ceiling for customer and social welfare and health care. Well, then, Laitinen Pesola, thank you very much. One can probably thank the whole government, but I would like to thank the hardworking and research-oriented and interested nurses who have almost taken up and kicked off this work on the night of the work, and now this valuable piece of research has established itself. Well, then, the question arose as to whether it was right to use speed levers to buy drugs. No, no, I do not think that it should be about some other social benefit that is being paid for, and I hope that people will then know that they will apply for income support or so on, so that the benefit is the right one to buy the drugs. Well then, Timo Heinonen's question about children is also there on the table of Minister Saarikko. Perhaps I have met more mothers, and a written question has been asked about a matter to which Minister Saarikko, or whether Mr Ruhula had answered. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u232	Let's do it in the next round. We are now going to take another round of debuts, starting with Mr Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u233	Mr President! Mr Mattila, I really did ask whether this approach, in which inequality is growing, has been sufficiently carefully considered. There are a lot of people in this Chamber who are supposed to be interested in social and health policy, and I think that preventing the growth of inequalities is one of the most important objectives of social and health policy, and now that we know there are factors in this budget which, as it were, threaten that objective, I wanted to make sure of it. In particular, these index freezes seem to be something that should still be discussed and discussed, because in a situation where other societies enjoy the fruits of growth, they are now being taken away from those who are most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u234	Mr President! I expect the Minister to give some more thought to these pension issues that I have just asked, that is to say, the considerable differences in pensions between us. Is it possible to narrow them down just within the systems, thereby achieving fairness and moderation and, above all, improving the position of disadvantaged pensioners? It is quite clear that this increase in the guarantee pension is the best way forward, but in this situation, when the heavy cuts of the past couple of years are on and many times piled up for these people, EUR 15 is a modest amount. My question is this: did Group Leader Kaikkonen present that EUR 50 increase when he was apparently involved in the government budget debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u235	Mr President! As we all know here, pensioner poverty is a very big problem. Pensioners are not going to work, so improving employment will not help them, and not all of them are covered by that guarantee pension. It is not right for Finnish builders to wonder in everyday life whether I buy medicine or whether I buy bread. And it is not right that Finnish builders are increasingly standing in bread queues. Minister Mattila, did the government make any impact assessments as to how these savings will accumulate in certain groups of people? For now it seems that some pensioners are far too much into poverty. I feel that there has been some kind of accident at work, because I cannot believe that the minister wants to put some of the elderly in such an inhumane situation as they are now going to end up in. What is your message to these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u236	Mr President! I share this concern that the indices of these benefits have been frozen. Now that this budget has had some room to distribute tax relief to those working, it would be extremely important for this freeze of indices to be lifted. For we will also deepen this gap in inequality in the future, and the later the freezes will be lifted, the more these benefits will be left behind. Now that research results and studies have come from several directions that this budget is disparate, it would be important for us to allocate to the most low-income groups what is. This abolition of index freezing and also the increase in the basic deduction of municipal taxation would be the one that would help those with the lowest incomes living on benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u237	Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister about Evo funding, that is, the special state, it has research evo and education evo. They are too small, at least from the point of view of experts in university hospitals, and this leads to the suffering of the entire university hospital, especially the training of specialists, and ultimately to the fact that, ultimately, this fall falls on the municipalities or owners who are in financial difficulties. In that sense, this debate on Evo funding is in order, and I would like the Minister to consider whether it should be raised in those discussions within the Ministry. Since it is possible that competition will increase in future social welfare reform, university hospitals, which play a key role in specialised medical care, must be competitive both in terms of service and in particular in terms of training specialist doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u238	Mr President! The low income of pensioners is a fact that can be influenced by political decisions. A national programme of measures is needed to reduce pensioner poverty. In Finland, older women and small workers' pensions are particularly difficult. The national pension would call for a level increase, but unfortunately the government's actions are the opposite. As we have heard many times in this Chamber today, national pensions are being cut by EUR 240 per year. Moreover, the taxation of pensioners should not be more stringent than that of employees, and this tax gap must be bridged. I was also delighted with that increase in the guarantee pension and the fact that Mr Kaikkonen suggested that it should be increased by EUR 50, but unfortunately I have to say that this increase was rather cosmetic. Considering all the increases in expenses, I think we're going to go to the cold.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u239	Mr President! The government must be commended for the fact that the government has launched a basic income experiment, which is an experiment that would specifically improve the chances of people on low incomes surviving the current social security jungle and also to get out of poverty through employment into a better life. However, the government's basic income test has been criticised for being very limited and for excluding freelancers, self-employed people and so on, and many experts have suggested that it would be useful to extend the experiment. But now, in my view, there is no budget for enlargement in this budget. I would have asked Minister Mattila if you would be in favour of such an extension and whether any additional appropriations and extensions were known at any point in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u240	And Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u241	Thank you, Speaker! Mr Laitinen-Pesola has already thanked the Minister for Nursing here. The funding allocated to the Research Foundation, but I cannot fail to thank you either, because it is really, really important and it has been the subject of many years of work and now this funding is finally being put on a permanent footing. I believe that this money will come back to society many times over. However, like Mr Laitinen-Pesola, I ask him because the Minister did not reply to his comment whether it would be possible to consider an increase in this appropriation now or in the near future, because if we really compare it with funding received by, for example, the Oikeushoito recommendation, it is very, very small. However, with its research into nursing, we would get them evidence-based, effective treatment practices there, even within the framework of social and health care reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u242	Minister Mattila, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u243	Mr President! Let us now continue with that first round, which was not answered. Representative Kankaaniemi, on equalisation of pension differentials, that large pensions can be cut. Of course, it is a challenging question: who wants to go in any way to cut anyone’s earned pensions in particular? However, employment pensions have been earned themselves, in the system, of course, but this would certainly require a greater basis for discussion than I could do as a minister alone. Then several questions still concern this inequality, loneliness, index freezes. I'm sure there's plenty of talk about this, and that's good. From this budgetary week forward, this will also be dealt with by the committees, and as I said, up to the Constitutional Committee. From Mäkisalo-Ropponen impact assessment: In other words, there are explanatory elements in the government's proposals, these are also considered by the evaluation council if necessary. I do not fully sign that this government is in any way particularly inhumane. It is true that, in this situation of balancing public finances, these government proposals have been brought by me as government minister, and the budget is a whole, and I am sure that the government is concerned about the sustainability of the national economy. I would also point out that, on the other hand, local government finances have been strengthened in such a way that municipalities have a better chance of meeting their obligations. Then this issue of pension tax also requires a broader basis for examination than the budget we are debating right now. Mr Eestilä, you raised the issue of evo funding and its adequacy. As I said in that reply to Mr Laitinen-Pesola, I will return to this question because I do not know these amounts of euro, and then this feedback has come from a different direction. But I'm sure special training is needed, you know that as a professional. What happens in the war is the place of another epistle, but I believe that university hospitals still exist after the social welfare reform and education is provided there. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, the question of basic income is, and may be, one part of trying to clarify our system of social benefits. It's an experiment. It's not a model yet. Two important things are needed to keep it going. First of all, now that this basic income experiment has started since the beginning of the year, experience will be gained from this experiment, and then the second will be a national income register. These are then the tools to promote the construction of this basic income experiment and model. Then there is this increase in health inequalities: it is always a bad development, it must be taken seriously and this issue must be addressed. There are regional experiments in the main projects, and results are gradually being obtained. Mr Ojala-Niemelä asked about the state of play of this key project at the moment. These are the figures I do not have here. We can come back to them later. Then the issue of loneliness has risen, especially the loneliness of the elderly. It is true that the number of people living alone in Finland, for example, is increasing all the time. It is, of course, this kind of western development. I'd be very happy to do this more... Perhaps this could have been addressed, but it did not rise in this budget debate as such, but there is nothing to prevent this theme of loneliness from being addressed. Then: Right here is the legend of Congressman Kaikkonen and the withdrawal of the guarantee pension. Did you have anything to say? I'm sure there's been a lot of hope. Hopes have been expressed here for evo money, raising the funds of the Nursing Research Foundation, increasing the guarantee pension. They will always be the whole thing that is being negotiated in that budget debate, and now this proposal is here and looks like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u244	One more response, Mr Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u245	Mr President! Minister Mattila said, broadly speaking, that there will certainly be enough and good talk about the development of inequality, and that in the committees the budget will now continue to be discussed. That is what I myself was trying to say: if it is now the case that the committee's expert judgements really speak a harsh language about the development of inequality and, in particular, that these cumulative effects are significant, are you prepared to correct the budget in this respect? Nor did you answer whether these impact assessments were carried out. For example, in the case of families with children, a single parent increase is important, but when we know that at the same time there are cuts in housing allowance, index freezes, increases in medical costs, customer fees for child care, then you should be able to look at the whole thing for families with children, the poorest families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u246	Secretary Mattila, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u247	Mr President! As I recall, I said there's a lot of talk about index freezes, but inequality... well, both are things I'm sure there's plenty to talk about. After all, this government proposal and budget are now going to the parliamentary committees. It is in the hands of Parliament, so to speak, and I respect what is said and spoken about in Parliament, and then it is up to the government to do so if there is any pressure for change there. And the procedure — as I said, I respect what Parliament is doing now. Then that impact assessment, it has now risen here on several questions: In practice, the government's proposals always involve an impact assessment in the explanatory statement, an evaluation, calculations, and I think that, for example, in the case of index freezes, it is thoroughly done. The figures have been described, and one could even say that without embellishment, and that is what I have brought as the minister of responsibility, which is therefore part of the balancing of public finances. And who likes to do these surgeries, surgical decisions and performances? It is quite clear that, as I said, there has now been a rise — and I repeat myself a little — in the hope of money being spent at the Nursing Research Foundation, on Evo funding, on guarantee pensions, but that budget is then a whole, and there, as I said, I will then bring that proposal as one of the government's ministers, in accordance with the agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u248	Mr President! I hope the Minister does not feel that we are continuing on this issue, but when this is an important issue, what we want to ask Mr Salonen. When we talk about impact assessments, it is certainly a separate impact assessment from each decision, but we ask whether an overall impact assessment has been carried out, that is, what are all these separate savings decisions affecting a particular group of people, because that overall impact assessment is quite different and affects people's lives in a different way than it does if we think only of those individual decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u249	Secretary Mattila, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u250	Mr President! It does not bother me that this issue is being discussed, and I do not feel it in any way as a matter of urgency. Overall impact assessment — I may not see how it differs somehow from what is being done and what we know about these pensions: how many people receive pensions, what other benefit systems are, how the service system works. It's a whole thing, though. In other words, if you could somehow shed some light on what kind of specific overall impact assessment. But as I understand it... We know who are in the pension system, in the service system, and the calculations are made for that government proposal. It is now in the parliamentary committee, which will be able to continue this evaluation. So does this not become such an evaluation — or I do not know if we are speaking a little different language now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u251	All right, let's take one more debatative tour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u252	Mr President! Yes, it is different and, in my opinion, this overall impact assessment has not been carried out. It is very important that this should be done because individual assessments, such as in the case of housing allowance cuts, only consider the housing allowance. But when it comes to the effects of man - made, then we must see what separate decisions affect the individual person, the person or the group of people, whether it be the low - income pensioners or our poor families with children. And if the impact assessment has not been carried out, then we will not be able to fully know where the decisions are being taken. And it does seem a little bit that impressive, significant decisions are taken blindly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u253	Mr President! Representative Salonen spoke very clearly in my opinion, and yes it is so that during this reign there really are no such overall assessments made. And it has not been done in such a way as to consider how these cuts and austerity measures affect the same age groups or gender. That is something that equality researchers and professors have repeatedly criticised the government for as well as poverty researchers. Here in the yellow budget book it says that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is systematically coordinating the government's equality policy, so I am now addressing this criticism not only to the Ministry of Finance but also to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that these income effects by gender and age group are repeatedly not assessed. Similarly, children’s impact assessments have been repeatedly neglected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u254	Mr President! In this context, I would like to continue with the question of whether the government has also calculated these alternative costs from these savings decisions. In other words, what is the full impact for society on this issue: If we save on the x, will it cost you a lot of money? For example, what does it mean to increase income support for some of these index freezes and so on? This calculation of alternative costs would also be very important for the whole, because otherwise these decisions may give you the impression that they will save something, but in the final games they will save nothing, but may even cost more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u255	Secretary Mattila, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u256	Mr President! I will return first to this question by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen about whether they are being calculated. I mean, they do make them. In other words, it is precisely now, for example, that this increase in the minimum daily allowance has been made in view of the fact that the citizen is covered by the primary benefit, which is intended to live there, that is not to say, in a sense: when the primary benefit is so small, then the rest will be replaced by the income support, for example. Well, I have also seen these things done in many different contexts. Not everyone is, of course, a government proposal, but when, for example, development work has been done or researched about the lives of citizens, or so on, these have been done by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, how it affects cutting something, adding something. And I am sure that you will get them quite quickly too, if you are interested in them too. But then I will return to this preparation. When we talk about an overall impact assessment, then the issue of equality, the impact on children, the impact on sex, then I still want to defend the preparation in that the government proposal says 'Preparation of the matter. The presentation has been prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The Ministry of Finance and the Social Insurance Institution have also participated in the preparatory work". That we do, however, have a Social Insurance Institution with comprehensive information. Of course, then, at some point, there will also be the political orientation, and, as I said, this government proposal is part of the balancing of public finances, which I am the Minister of State for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u257	Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u258	Mr President! The government proposal proposes to amend the law on the game management fee and the catch permit fee by increasing the game management fee. When you read the motion, you can say that this change is necessary even if it does not occur without an increase in the game-keeping fee. One amendment is the proposal to amend the game damage law to compensate for the costs of participating in game damage inspections in the game management associations from the appropriations allocated to compensation for the damage caused by the game. This is exactly the right change, and I hope it will also happen. When you read the goals of the performance, the goals are correct. The aim of the proposal is, among other things, to direct some of the funds raised as a result of the increase in the cost of game management to the implementation of projects to significantly improve the environment of game by landowners, which would contribute to the conservation and enhancement of biodiversity on a wider scale. In addition, the main objective of the proposal is in particular to support voluntary associations of game management associations and strengthen operational guidance and to support development projects to prevent major fraud and damage. The reform of the game management associations should be carried out in such a way that the funds allocated to the activities would, to the greatest extent possible, go specifically to field activities. Extensification of administrative costs does not give the best support to the stated purpose. It is therefore important to carry out the reform of the game management associations through extensive preparation and careful consideration of the various options. The Finnish Hunting Association has suggested that game management associations continue to be the same as hunting clubs' so-called umbrellas, but that ERP should be focused on the main activity managers employed in regional game centres. I think this model would be more cost-effective than the one put forward by the Ministry. So we should think about this again. I myself would have taken better account of the youth work of hunting associations in the presentation. It is very valuable work and it should be funded in the same way as youth work by nature conservation associations. At the same time, I propose halving the game management fee for people under the age of 18. The Finnish Hunting Federation is committed to making a similar discount and encourages clubs to travel to the threshold for young people to enter clubs. I believe that joint action should be taken on the whole chain in the field of youth. The government's proposal is also to amend the fishing law. The proposal proposes to amend the Fisheries Act. The fees for fisheries management would be increased. It is also proposed that the budget's justification should be based on the amounts of fish management fees sold in the future. The Government's proposal is based on a lower amount of fish management fees and a long-term decrease in the number of fish management fees. The collection of fees for fisheries management has been approximately EUR 2 million lower than was estimated in the reform of the Fisheries Act. It is clear that something must be done to catch up with this deficit. But is it true that those conscientious fishermen who always pay their permits will pay the more next year? Would there not be any other way to bridge that 2 million deficit? Fishing is the same hobby as any other, and usually hobbies always cost money. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u259	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This year's budget debate has progressed with a very good consensus, and there are certainly reasons for this. For the first time in nine years, growth in our economy is as wide-ranging as it is at present. With the start of this government in 2015, after three years of recession, the economy grew for the first time but only by 0.5%, by 1.6% in 2016, and this year this growth has been estimated at 2.9%. In fact, in its most recent estimate, the Finnish Labour Institute has already increased its growth forecast to 3.6 per cent for this year. But this growth is possibly waning somewhat, so that next year the growth will be good 2 per cent and 1.9 per cent in 2019 and 1.5 per cent in 2020. The revenue for next year's budget is EUR 52.7 billion and expenditure is EUR 55.7 billion, which means that the pace of indebtedness is clearly slowing down. In the light of this information, additional debt will be taken into account next year and, in fact, today's Finance Minister Petteri Orpo gave good, positive news that this year's tax revenue is going to be exceeded by a billion, which means that at least one billion less debt will be taken this year than originally planned. I personally believe that with good solutions, we will be able to reduce this debt-taking rate even slightly next year. This budget for next year, like all the measures taken by this government, has been thought through the work. Taxation has been dealt with differently now that the Minister of Finance is Petteri Orpo, a member of the Coalition Party. Last season, there were extortions in the taxation of labour when the Minister of Finance was on the left side of the hall. Now the work ahead of this growth has been mobilised and extended. However, economic growth is not enough to cover the sustainability gap. The debt relative to GDP is hanging at around 60%, and the reason for this sustainability gap is the ageing population, the decline in the number of working-age people, the rise in pension expenditure as a result, and also the increase in public health expenditure associated with this entity. It is therefore important that we continue to raise the employment rate. The employment rate is expected to rise to 70.5% next year, but the target set by this government for 72% will not be achieved with these measures and known forecasts this period, and that is why we need more action. But luckily, the light at the end of the tunnel is now more fairly visible. Thus, unemployment is decreasing, including youth unemployment, the number of long-term unemployed has fallen by 20,000, and next year's budget focuses on care, education and knowledge and security. Of these, a few remarks will be made briefly to the end of my speech. Early childhood education fees will be reduced so that thousands of families will again receive free early childhood education and, in general, free early childhood education will be tested as such a free-of-charge experiment for five-year-olds. A single parent increase is made in child allowances, a family increase is introduced in student grants and a family leave reform is introduced. Comprehensive school will also be invested in the provision of equality pay so that equality of opportunity in comprehensive school can be better achieved in the future. Hopefully, a thousand new starting places for vocational education and training in the second stage will provide young people with places to access employment through it. There will also be significant increases in Metso funds, as well as an increase in the guarantee pension, veteran money, which is now automatically sufficient in the budget for the first time, and the abolition of Yle-tax will eliminate the tax for many low incomes. There is also an exceptional amount of security in this budget, 44 million for the police, which can secure the number of 7200 police officers. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u260	The next item is the matter of the Ministry of Finance. Secretary Vehviläinen, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u261	Mr President! The year 2016 was record-breaking in terms of local government finances: the annual margin of municipalities rose to EUR 3.4 billion, which is the highest in the whole 2000s. The policies of the Sipilä Government have allowed municipalities to operate in a stable environment, and the spending pressures of municipalities have not been increased by the state. Like the previous government, the situation of municipalities has not been burdened by cuts in central government shares of billions. The operating expenditure of municipalities grew by only 0.5 per cent last year. This reflects the fact that municipalities have also spontaneously adapted their economies. When nearly 100 municipalities increased their municipal tax percentage to 2015, this year was less than half of this. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the local government finances will continue to grow in the current year. In 2018, local government finances are expected to deteriorate slightly from the current year, yet the annual margin is estimated to exceed the record level of 2016. Mr President! Next year, central government shares will decrease by around EUR 140 million. This reduction is particularly the result of the statutory annual revision of the distribution of costs between the state and municipalities. The revision of cost-sharing will reduce the central government shares of the coming year by EUR 177 million. This is about the fact that in 2015 the state has paid the municipalities that much too much of the state's contributions. And let us say that earlier, when this cost-sharing review was carried out every few years, it is now done annually. In my opinion, this is the first time that we have paid too much in this way; in general it has been so that in fact the municipalities have been paid a little too little, and then it has always been shown in the revision of the state accounts. In particular, because of the cost-sharing adjustment, the State measures are expected to weaken the local government finances by around EUR 130 million in the coming year. In other respects, a stable economic policy for municipalities will also continue next year. For example, municipal tax revenue losses are still fully compensated. The reduction in early childhood education fees will be offset by an increase in the share of corporation tax and central government shares and by an increase in the lower and upper limits of real estate tax. The loan stock of municipalities is expected to decrease this year. However, despite a good general situation, there are also significant differences between municipalities. That is something that we must acknowledge together. Last year, the result of every third municipality was negative, and the entire local government economy is still burdened by a high level of investment. Mr President! Then a few words on the preparation and financing of regional and social reform. The Government proposes more than EUR 300 million in 2018 for the full progress of the reform of the province and social welfare and health care sector. This amount consists, inter alia, of the ict, the appropriations for preparation and implementation, the appropriations for selection pilots in the administrative field of the Ministry of Justice and the appropriations for regional elections in the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice. Of the appropriations for the reform, EUR 180.5 million is available under the preparatory and implementation section of the Ministry of Finance. However, the preparation of the reform is highly cross-sectoral, since the reform concerns eight ministries as a whole. It should be noted that since this autumn the National Support for Change of Reform has been operating in a common situation room in Kruunuhaa on Mariankatu, where all the administrative sectors of the future multidisciplinary provinces are represented. The year 2018 will be the year of intense preparation for the provinces. The preparations are already well underway throughout the country until the coming summer. The reform laws are expected to enter into force in June 2018, after which the temporary administrations of the provinces will officially begin. The Government has set aside a total budget of EUR 40 million for the preparation and operation of the interim administration for next year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of buildings and buildings. The regional elections will take place in October 2018, and the term of office of the first regional councils will begin on 1 January 2019. EUR 130 million of the appropriations will be allocated to digitalisation and the preparation of ict. The funding will support the preparation of information management in the provinces for the development of regional and social development, as well as the preparation and joint investments of the regional information centre Vimana Oy. The aim is, among other things, to implement common electronic solutions for changes in information systems and for interoperability, which are essential for the reform. In turn, national social-ict development investments are to be financed through the established SoteDigi Oy, which is capitalised from the State Development Company Vake Oy. In addition, the joint support item for the regional and social welfare reform includes funding for measures to change the municipalities' IT administration, the preparation of the Hetli service centre for the regional financial and human resources administration, the preparation of the regional change coaching and the national steering and coordination of regional and social welfare reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u262	We now have the opportunity to ask for replies to this subject and they will begin with Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u263	Mr President! A year ago, when the budget for this year was discussed, the relationship between the municipality and the state was such that it showed a total of 39 million pluses to the municipalities, but now that we are dealing with this budget, unfortunately, the turn has taken place: this shows EUR 129 million less for the municipalities. Of course, this is an important policy, although it is not going to bring down the country, but the question arises whether the government is now withdrawing from the policy of its government programme that the local government finances are not being weakened. During the previous parliamentary term, as the Minister said, the government was very hard hit by the municipal purse. I'm glad that's not what's going to happen. Tax revenue losses are compensated by the government in its proposal, and that is good. Also, this additional cut of 40 million
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u264	Mr President! In yesterday's debate in this Chamber, it was noteworthy that none of the speeches dealt with the municipal issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u267	Mr President! For example, municipalities have saved 360 million dollars in staff savings, and the pain limits are likely to have come up quite a bit in many municipalities at the moment. For that reason, for example, thinking that because of the kiky, the six-minute increase, EUR 190 million is being taken away from the municipalities, sounds quite inconceivable. The second point is that, despite the fact that the regional model is being prepared and money has been added to it, municipalities are making their own budgets in considerable uncertainty. Not known in this kind of future spending limits period, what it is for it to come. Then such a thing that I am very upset about and worried about, ie if this kind of model continues that pre-decided decisions are taken by the municipalities of the state. For example, the idea that when can be saved by the fact that kiky comes, then reduce in advance state contributions, so for this reason such thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u268	Mr President! In recent days, it has already been said many times that local government finances have been strengthened in recent years, which, on the other hand, has also meant that municipalities are given more responsibility. I would like to ask whether the Ministry has an estimate of how many municipalities will increase property tax in the course of next year so that municipalities will be able to compensate for reductions in customer fees for early childhood education. After all, they are very good discounts, including a sister discount of 20% to 50%, but some municipalities are, of course, in pain with regard to their property tax. Then there's another thing. It is a good thing that we have been able to strengthen these sections of the state, but has there been any consideration as to what stage it is and whether, during this term of government, this state contribution as a whole can be assessed and set out to prepare its reforms for the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u269	Mr President! According to the budget book, the overall impact of state measures on local government finances is less than EUR 29 million and, of course, it has this kiky cut as a major factor, as Mr Paatero pointed out. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: when will you take the spoon in your beautiful hand and decide to combine the regional elections with the parliamentary elections? Let us hope that you do not pass responsibility on this question to the group of party secretaries, because the fact is that there is a broad willingness and understanding among the parties to unite the elections, and this is now mainly at the hands of the ministerial group in the centre, in actual fact. Combining the elections would be an essential issue for democracy. Independent regional elections are unlikely to mobilise voters, and even the party has little resources to carry out separate regional elections. Mr President! Another key issue is whether the regions have sufficient resources to prepare for the transitional administration of the regional reform and whether the government is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u270	Mr President! The regional reform and the related social and health care reform are still fully open, and this creates uncertainty in the municipalities. Municipalities cannot plan the economy in the long term, and many investments are also not made. In particular, the proposed financing model, in which all municipalities lose an equal share of their tax revenues, treats municipalities unfairly. Municipalities that have managed their economies well and managed to organise their health care cost-effectively are the biggest losers, and in the future more or less dependent on state contributions — I am talking here, among other things, about my own municipality of origin, which currently has less than 40% of the total cost of social work. So, Minister, is there going to be a fairer change in the financing model or in the municipalities' system of central government transfers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u271	Mr President! Minister! Under the leadership of the Minister, the regional reform plan has been well advanced and preparatory work has been carried out. In the regions around Finland, the preparatory civil service groups and the related political steering groups are taking the preparatory work forward. The train's running. There are, however, a couple of flaws in mind: The second is a practical observation: when considering, for example, the division of tasks between the Ely Centres and the dispersal of the associated posts in the provinces, how to ensure that the posts go equally to the right provinces — not just by accident, according to the old custom, to stay in the wrong place and, in a way, to go into office across the provincial borders in order to carry out tasks in another province. I will also use the province of South Karelia as an example: We share the border water with Russia, Vuoksi, and the law does not at all say that the border water issues related to the year will be decided in the province of South Karelia, but perhaps somewhere else. Could you possibly clarify this point by:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u272	Mr President! The uncertainty surrounding the property arrangements of the regional and social welfare reform confuses operators in municipalities and also the real estate market. Municipalities have received contacts regarding the purchase of real estate. There are large national health service companies and their underlying venture capital investors. In some municipalities these offers are being taken up, because there is still a great deal of uncertainty about what will happen after the three-year lease period in the province: is the real estate mass going to be left in the municipalities, or what will happen to them? After all, Minister, the Constitutional Committee called for such a compensation mechanism and for it to be built in such a way that the autonomy of the municipalities is not jeopardised by these property arrangements. How is the development of this compensation system at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u273	Mr President! When we look at this whole local government economy, it is good to say that the municipalities have done their own job quite well and have survived the difficult years that have been going on here. Perhaps the more central issue now is this relationship between municipalities and the state, which Mr Paatero also referred to when we are now moving on to a model where the money relating to certain state measures will be exported in advance and then we will see what happens from there. A good example is this competitiveness pact, the calculated impact of which, according to state estimates, should be there in 190 million, which will be taken away from the municipalities, and yet according to the municipal federation estimates, the real savings for the municipalities will be only 57 million. The same logic also applies, for example, to a change in subjective day care rights when not all municipalities introduced it but the money has been taken away. I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister will see this relationship between municipalities and the state in the future and how it should be developed from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u274	Mr President! I was just reading some disturbing news when the preliminary calculations of the Treasury shares of the Ministry of Finance were published in September. A small independent municipality, Rääkkylä in North Karelia, loses approximately EUR 600000 of central government shares, or just what we saved last year, i.e. we missed out. In addition, tax revenues have been forecast to decline by around EUR 300000, i.e. it does not look good at all if they are implemented as estimated. Obviously no account has yet been taken of the remoteness factors, and I would like to ask the Minister briefly: will there be any additional funding for the state contribution for the remoteness coefficients for next year for the municipalities — and in particular for Rääkkylä?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u275	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Minister about this from the state's licensing and surveillance agency in Luova. I am not exactly sure what the current state of planning is, but is this the case that it is still to be started at the beginning of 2019 and this government reform of social and regional affairs is to start in 2020? Here comes quite a synchronization problem between the transfer of functions, environmental tasks and others that should they be started at the same time? I think it is important for this government to go through the social and regional reform, but it is not necessarily up to the government, it is above all up to the Constitutional Committee, and it must also be noted, as a risk factor, that the government has five proposals which legally constitute one and the same thing, and it goes through or does not go through the Constitutional Committee as a whole. Therefore, should this in some way re-evaluate this Creative Schedule and start it at the same time as the possible regional reform that we hope will begin then in 2020?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u276	Mr President! It is up to the government what this social and regional reform will be, and the government must simply see that it then meets all the conditions mentioned in its opinion by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That is the framework conditions, and this is not something that will be decided in the Constitutional Committee; on the contrary, the government will have to make such a proposal that it will then go through there. But, Mr President, the situation here is very confusing at the municipal level. Offers from entrepreneurs and companies for buying real estate come through doors and windows, and municipal decision-makers do not know what to do. However, we are getting very limited autonomy in our regions. Why, now that such extensive reform is being carried out, perhaps the greatest reform of decades, is there no desire to give the provinces proper autonomy? Now comes very narrow and weak self-government, in a way comes the situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u277	Mr President! There have been concerns in the provinces about the financing of the preparation of the reform. It has sometimes seemed that these pilots are being applied for, as it were, to finance the preparation of its regional reform, and this should not be the case. The first issue should be the reform of the social and regional sectors, and there should be sufficient money in the first place, and the second would be these pilots, which would, as it were, supplement the reform itself. Now 100 million have been earmarked for these freedom of choice pilots, of which 80 million are going to the municipalities. What exactly is now being financed, because I understand that the content of these pilots is not yet known exactly? And what exactly does this 80 million money for municipalities mean? Is that enough money for municipalities not to have anything to pay for, perhaps, these pilots or regional reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u278	We will take the floor from Mrs Wallinheimo and Mr Ojala-Nieme and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u279	Mr President! You, Minister, are the Minister of Local Government, but you are also the corresponding Minister of Digital Affairs at the VM. The national income register is awaited with interest. How's he doing? The National Incomes Register, i.e. income data, is available in real time to the authorities and public authorities who need it. This is an ambitious structural reform in Finland. I hope this is going well, but I would now like to know where we stand at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u280	Mr President! I'd like to ask the minister about the duality. I come from Lapland itself, and we have the best season, the tourist season, about to begin, there will be a lot of labour from the south. In the past, it was understood that these people are single and people who come alone, but it has become clear from the studies that they are just family people who need different services, such as day care centres, schools and health care services and others, but tax revenues still go to the southern community. So do you intend to promote this duality? We see that it would also bring us a great deal of benefit. The Advisory Board for Archipelago Affairs also recently made a proposal on this. Secondly, I share Mr Sarkkinen's concerns about the timing of these elections. If they had been in connection with the presidential election, the turnout would certainly have been high, but now that they are alone, will there be enough, so to speak, to get people off the ground? What could be done with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u281	Minister Vehviläinen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u282	Mr President! I'm going to this digital thing when it became a question from Mrs. Wallinheim. In fact, the National Incomes Register, its preparation, is good. I even heard today that the Legislative Review Council, which is a new body, even thanked it as a proposal, and that goes to the Tax Department for that. I think it's a good thing that it has been such a good performance. It costs a lot of money, almost EUR 50 million is put into it, and it comes into effect in several phases 2019 to 2020, and it has to be carried forward, it makes many things easier. As far as the duality is concerned, it is linked to this municipal reform of the future and we have a separate report that has been put in motion. We are looking at the question of multi-spatiality — that is what it is about — services, then civil society and then taxation. Everyone knows that taxation is the most difficult of all. We have had one of these briefings, we have a few sparrers from research circles, and then officials are doing this study, and by the end of this year we will be able to get it done. I am, as it were, positive personally, but I would like to see that clarification. Well, then, let's go over here for a more traditional municipal policy. For those who were concerned about next year's state transfers, which has been cut off and what is more: Anyone who knows about municipal affairs knows that the system of state participation is enormously complex. In my own speech, I tried to say that this revision of the distribution of costs between the state and the municipalities is in fact the biggest variable in the number of central government shares next year. Kiyä is also important, but even more so by means of this revision of the distribution of costs between the state and municipalities. The local government finances programme, which has been distributed to all of you, contains a little more details on page 10. Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Ojala-Niemelä then raised the issue of the timing of the regional elections. I personally believe that it is right for me to be concerned about the turnout and how the parties will be able to prepare for it, and I am well aware that there will be an election moment in a few years' time. But once the government is committed to this reform coming into force in 2020, we need to find time for the first provincial councils with pure legitimacy to make those important decisions. Officials cannot take the decisions that decide on the operation of the entire province to be established, the economy, the administration, the selection of senior officials, the adoption of a social service network, a service promise, a regional strategy, staff transfers, all transfers of contracts. There must then be democratically elected decision-makers. I therefore warmly support the fact that these regional councils will be able to take those decisions from the beginning of 2019. Now, for the first time, we had municipal elections at the end of April and, in my opinion, they were only organised in June, and now they are making these municipal strategies and preparing for the budget for the coming year. It seems to me that under no circumstances will those provincial councils be able to start operating in such a way that a few months would just be the time for decision-making. Then, in several speeches, these municipal buildings were raised. It is really in the way that many big social services companies go there and ask questions that we might buy your real estate or that we buy real estate and then make such an outsourcing agreement in connection with it. This is a complex equation, and I say that the municipality can, of course, sell its property under its autonomy if it wishes, individual or even more. But then I think, as my colleague, Minister Saarikko, has just said here, that it is worth being patient and looking far enough. But then, of course, it creates pressure on the law of enforcement that is being discussed here in the Administrative Committee, and the Constitutional Committee said that there should be such a compensation procedure. Well, everyone knows that it is not possible to find a solution in autumn 2017 that would work in every municipality in 2023 if there were any of those empty properties. That is why this must be done carefully, and Mr PeV said that it would be possible to use municipal discretionary subsidies. But it must now be seen in this preparation and, in fact, the reply has already provided the Administrative Committee with a wording for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u283	Then we'll take another debatative tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u284	Mr President! Perhaps another aspect of this reform and the electoral timetable is that when we were really on a tight schedule this year, when those laws came here so late and then they should have been dealt with during the summer so that we could have them, then now we will be on an even tighter schedule next year. If that freedom of choice law comes here in April, after which we only get to committee, and then there should be an election in the autumn, then the election law says that six months will by no means happen. And if it gets any longer, then we won't be able to have those elections in the fall. However, if we have now moved this start to 2020, then perhaps it would be better to think of starting in peace in July 2020, because it would have been really the elections that would have been at the same time as the parliamentary elections, the time for all those decisions to be made properly. I do not know if there is another reason why this thinking is not being taken forward. And then here is the fact that Charlo Tuori made an investigation into this compensation model. Would you mind telling me, Mr. Secretary,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u285	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the introduction and, in particular, for the fact that we are currently working hard on this issue in the provinces. Even in Pirkanmaa, we may have 500 people attached to this process of regional reform and municipal reform, and there are also separate change leaders and the pace is so to speak. Maybe not all provinces with this flexibility or, let's say, large volume to go. And thank you for giving us additional funding for taking things forward rather than falling down in those provinces. Perhaps the other question is that we have different operating models in our municipalities, we have this Mänttä-Vilppula (Mänttä-Vilppula) Terveys Oy together with the company Pihlajalinna. I wonder how these good practices and operating models will then be brought in in due course. Of course, it is the province’s own decision as to what to do, but could it be possible to give some guidance on these matters to those provinces as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u286	Mr President! First of all, the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities on this relationship is similar to that of the Government in the draft budget. In this social situation: firstly, this compensation model is a very important and serious issue, and I hope that the Minister will take this very seriously. For example, this report by Professor Tuori is a good basis for looking at how to take it forward. In municipalities it is being monitored with concern at the moment. Then, with regard to social services, the main problem came from this freedom of choice legislation, which was forced to do so, and it now drove the municipalities into a mixed situation and the problems of the reform as a whole. It would have been wise to remove it and take the regional reform, the social reform without it, so many of the mess would have been solved. Now the mayors really have those offers on the tables and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u287	Mr President! This protection of the property of the municipalities was brought up here. That is also protected by the Constitution, as I understand it, and there is another article in the Constitution which refers to municipal self-government. Now that this day surgeon is focused and these articles are already being applied on 1 January 2018, I will ask the Minister how the special state contribution will be next year. It should already be included in the budget, because now municipalities with self-government and property are being banned from using this property by the government. This must be of interest to the municipalities and cities where these operating rooms are located, which can no longer be used after this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u288	Mr President! Digiloikka is a huge opportunity for the time and location of unbound service and information. At best, it makes it possible to live, study, work or try anywhere, and everyone should have access to unhindered information in the future, but it is not possible for everyone, at least at this stage. Digitisation may be true, for example due to lack of broadband or among older people. Minister, how will we serve those who are unable to receive or transmit electronic information in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u289	Mr President! As has been said, the proposal for freedom of choice on the social side had to be reinstated because of constitutional problems. The so-called Growth Services Act, which is part of this regional reform, is based on the same organisation model, i.e. this subscriber-producer model, the freedom of choice model and the forced-to-companies model. Has the government assessed the impact of this interpretation of the Constitution on this Act on growth services and whether it needs to be re-prepared and abandoned this so-called freedom of choice model and this coercion in this regard? Mr President! Indeed, there is now a remarkable and worrying development in various parts of Finland, as municipalities prepare different kinds of social services and sell their own properties and then rent them back. It's kind of like the end of the world. This activity is confusing for the future system and can be costly for future regions. Is there any way in which legislation can address this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u290	Mr President! I will return to this matter of election. When the Minister also called for the election to be held in a bit of a hurry, that this new administration will be able to start on 1 January 2019, it has to be said that this has been a bit self-inflicted since it has well described this whole reform. Since experts from various quarters have been warning that there seems to be a bit of a rush and too much rush to do so, then time and again the government has had to revise its own schedule a little bit. Now that this statement from the Constitutional Committee came in the summer on this matter, which then again delayed this timetable, the government was asked a little bit then whether it would be worth taking it easy now so that this was not forced into this hurry again. After all, now we can only estimate that, as this goes on a little while, we will be in the same situation in a year's time, and that is why this linking of the elections to the parliamentary elections would have been quite justified if this had been taken in peace and then held in the spring of 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u291	Mr President! To this employment and vitality policy, it is precisely from the point of view of the local government economy that: At the moment, with the problem that financial responsibility and tools in the management of employment are also increasingly weighing on local government finances, last week the Minister showed a little yellow light on municipal days that this regional reform would still be able to assess this responsibility for the organisation of employment and vitality services in cities, perhaps large cities or regional centres or similar areas. That is what I would have asked about the perspective or timetable for this review. Another issue related to these regional elections and related to the municipal economy is that municipalities have always received EUR 2 per capita compensation for the elections. I think it's part of the Ministry of Justice, but now I can't help but find out whether it was now the case that the compensation of approximately EUR 11 million for the regional elections is there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u292	Mr President! The start of the provinces. I do not know how it is possible in the municipal and provincial fields that the province will start as if it were in the middle of the financial year, for example at the beginning of July. But it must be said, for example, as the leader of Kainuu’s administrative experiment and, as it were, as if with a lot of experience of this, that if we had regional elections in April 19, which in practice means that the regional councils would start class in June 19, then — it is only forced to say — that six months is far too short a time from the start of the provincial council to the start of the whole province. It has to be taken into account. But one more question for the Minister: if the aim is to further strengthen this municipal economy at the end of this parliamentary term, then what should the government do in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u293	Mr President! The ambitious need for adjustment of this regime amounted to EUR 10 billion, of which EUR 1 billion was to come from the reduction of municipal tasks. Unfortunately, this was not completed, and after that this exercise turned into a reduction in the obligations of municipalities and public administration. Has this progress been made on schedule, and how has this now changed the overall picture of this billion? That is a very ambitious goal, and it is indeed a matter of wishing the Ministry every step of the way, because it is certainly not an easy exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u294	I would like to give two replies to the representatives of Mr Paatero and Mr Pirttilahti, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u295	Thank you, Mr President! One detail here: When early childhood education fees are reduced, it is a good thing and it is to be welcomed. But then the compensation comes in an interesting way, because if you think about the municipalities or the families who benefit from the reduction in the early childhood education fee, they will, however, receive an increase in the property tax on the other side. If this is once a compensation that municipalities have to raise property tax when they reduce early childhood education fees, then I do not know who it is compensation for. It is a beautiful gesture that the same people pay for, and in that municipal economy it just comes in one door and goes out another door. These types of models are horribly nice, creative models, but I hope that such ones will not start to use any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u296	Mr President! I'd like to ask you a few more questions about digitalization. When you are looking for savings and cost levels, and also for better services, what is the stage of the social-digi at the moment and how much money does the state make to take it? Indeed, we have dozens of systems, hundreds of them, and it would probably be important to combine them in order to get them to talk in the same direction. The second is, of course, the improvement of these services and the integration of all these services. The third point is, what has come to light here, the vital services of municipalities and the compatibility of growth services: how strong will we then also get business companies involved in this, so to speak, in the service structure of municipalities, which involves planning, vitality services and education, alongside regional and growth services, to bring this well-being to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u297	And now for the Minister's reply, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u298	Mr President! To Mr Paatero, on this point, that this reform could begin in the middle of the year, 1.7.2020: Yes, I agree with Mr Korhonen that it is very difficult. Since there are tax laws, a change in the system of central government transfers, a regional funding law, I do not think it is quite possible that it could begin in the middle of the year. I have also received this report from Mr Tuori, but I have not yet had time to study it, but I will of course study it. Representative to Eestilä from earlier round, Creative schedule: It's still open for us, and we're thinking about it. There are good aspects to both sides, that it should start at 19, but very heavy, that it should start at the same time as this whole regional reform. But we'll have to make a decision soon. Representative Katainen asked about this digital how to ensure that everyone can receive their services, including those who cannot use electronic services. Of course, these joint service points were discussed here in the Committee on Administration and how they can be used. Then we at the Ministry of Finance have this digital separately like this Help project that seeks solutions especially for those who need support in the use of electronic services. There are a few dozen localities involved, where they are sought, and in part it is also in cooperation with this wider Digikunta experiment. Then we have set up a separate advisory board with a large number of social and health organisations and researchers who look at the kind of support people would need for those e-services. This week there was a Accessibility Forum for the first time. Next year, when we have to adopt this directive at national level, we will have to implement it in every way, by telephone, by letter, by visiting services or by electronic means, that everyone has the right to take care of their own public services. Then I forgot to say to Mr Kulmala that now there is this preliminary information on the state contributions for next year per municipality. I have also looked at it with regard to Rääkkylä, and it is worth opening up, which is why there is a reduction of EUR 600000. I suspect, among other things, that this revision of the distribution of costs between the state and the municipalities is one element — that there will be Three years ago, in 2015, which is, so to speak, the root number, it was more than it should have been. I have such statistics that we can look at that part of Rääkkylä together and why. Then these laws on growth services came up here, and this is the responsibility of Minister Lintilä. You know that they were already in the consultation and that is quite clear, which was the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the end of June. I am quite sure that TEW also reads it precisely that what it means and how much the private service provider can have the right to take administrative decisions — cannot be in accordance with a well-established interpretation. In a way, the entire Act on Growth Services has been drawn up in such a way that it will be discussed here in Parliament at the beginning of March or next winter. I do not know the details of the changes that will be made to it, but it will be examined. Then I will come back to this when Mr Räsänen caught up with this haste. I would like to say quite frankly that when I was on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health during the last parliamentary term, I worked hard to ensure that this parliamentaryly prepared proposal for social services had gone through and fell into the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and before that we had intended to bring about a social reform. Something tells me we should get ready now. That is why I am so firmly in favour of trying to stick to this house so that we have the 2020 reform in place. There's 41 laws already in the process. For example, the Administrative Committee, which is familiar to the representative of the committee, knows the laws that relate to municipalities and also the regional funding law very well. Then Mr Pirttilahti from SoteDig: first of all, the EUR 130 million has been earmarked for this development of Vimana, and separately, EUR 90 million for SoteDigi is this capitalisation. We're running out of time. But the JTS billion actually, Mrs Wallinheimo, is quite good. We have good themes, and I'd love to go through them. When I think I'm meeting with your representatives in the next few weeks, we can go over it together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u299	Now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u300	Mr President! As part of this debate on the budget, it is also appropriate to look a little further, and in my own speech I thought to go over some of these challenges for the fatherland, which we will in any case have to deal with in the years to come. First of all, I must say that it is great that, for a long time, the Finnish economy is showing more positive signs than negative ones. It can be seen from the fact that we have recovered both exports and investments, and it also gives room for manoeuvre to central government finances, and that is why the pressure on new spending savings will certainly be lower. In fact, what I would like to talk about is that, although this general economic situation is now looking a little brighter, we cannot afford to rest on our laurels. These positive economic news does not eliminate the fact that, in the long term, Finland's economy is plagued by the same problems that we have had for many years: debt continues, the various necessary structural reforms await its completion and our employment rate lags below that of other control countries. This brings us to the most important problem for the future of the welfare state, that is, if we still want to keep the services and benefits of this welfare state at the level they are today in the next decade and the next decades, then our employment rate should be closer to 80% than the present 70. Since good speeches have been made here about the fact that this government target of 72% of the employment rate now seems to be quite difficult, we have enough work to do here to be able to further increase the employment rate in the long term. And yet this increase in employment rates is the only sustainable way of putting public finances in a better balance and securing welfare services in the future. Then, then, reforms will come to the fore, which, on the one hand, will enable us to extend the basis of our employment, to give more people access to work, but, on the other hand, with these structural reforms too, to try to bring this upward pressure on the costs of public services to an even greater extent, and, of course, this much-discussed social reform has been at the heart of this. Another, more central issue, which also for next year's budget is a lot of discussion and what is more like this also a longer-term challenge, is related to inequality and its development. After all, there has now been a great deal of discussion about this budget, and therefore only by looking at next year's budget, if we look at the richest revenue decile, we will receive EUR 400 more, and then here in the lowest income decile, the lowest income decile will lose about EUR 40. Understandably, this has caused a lot of discussion, and even if we do not look at this now on an annual basis or give too much weight to these static calculations, it is good to say that this combined with the development that we have experienced in Finland in recent years is a challenge. That is because we tend to have more people-to-people differences, more regional disparities, more health inequalities and so on. Everyone understands: When these are tied together, there will be no good results. So we will have a lot of work to do in the future, so that we can keep everyone involved and as a whole of Finnish society and take care of this mutual cohesion, because it is a sign of its good society and of the Nordic welfare state that we are really taking care of it and taking care of it. Of course, key decisions are taken here in the Finnish Parliament to halt and reverse the development of inequality, but the decisions taken by the municipalities, which are also now preparing their own budgets this autumn, will also play an enormous role. I hope that every municipality will also consider how we will be able to manage these issues a little better, on the one hand, to support this employment, but also to prevent this inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u301	Mr President! When integration fails, problems accumulate. They are personal problems, but also state problems and family problems, and there are many other possibilities. When refugees come to Finland, it is of course a traditional way to offer them language training as part of integration. However, in practice, such a person cannot be sure whether his education in Finnish is exactly what is good for him. He does not know whether he will receive a positive asylum decision, which means that he can stay in Finland, and of course the Finnish language will help him to find employment. Many times I have been contacted by employers to see if, at this stage, you could already offer training in English. In practice, understanding a few hundred English words means that a person can be placed in simple tasks, such as changing a tyre in car service halls or similar work where the performance can be shown, but the assignment must be stated, and it cannot always be drawn on paper. The employer also has a responsibility to ensure that the work is carried out safely and without putting the worker at any risk. Such a person who speaks a few hundred words of English in Finland is employed in the type of work in which these people can be used. There is plenty of such work to do. Finns do not really like working in the low-wage sector in all circumstances. They think they have a right to a little better. But for anyone who comes to this country, any task is the beginning of success. It enables socialisation, enables a better understanding of the Finnish way of life, and, above all, it provides people with a sensible task of self-esteem. When this matter was discussed in the Audit Committee, the opinion of the authorities, the people of the state administration, was totally negative in this provision of an English alternative. Even at European Union level, it might make sense that, if there is a small language area, you should start studying English. Then if you stay in the country, it will do you good anyway. If you move somewhere else in Europe, it will be useful. Even if they move beyond the borders of Europe, the English language skills acquired will also have significant benefits. At national level, we are so selfish that we do not understand our own interest in this, and I would like to say that the City of Espoo, which announced that they will be the third language to choose English, is certainly the forerunner in this matter, given the circumstances. That is why I hope, Mr President, that this issue will be considered, because it would provide employment, reduce various social problems if, at an early stage, when a party wishes, he could choose between the Finnish, Swedish or English language training which he considers to be good for himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u302	Mr President! It is a relief to be able to thank the government for its strong commitment to internal security, and a special thank you to the Minister for the Interior for his hard work on our national security. The threat of terrorism in Finland has increased. The protection police raised the threat level last June. The risk of violent action by domestic extremists is low so far. But we have to be careful. For example, there is hate speech in Finland and it is not a harmless phenomenon. Raising the threat assessment means a strong orientation of daily activities, and this always means a significant increase in costs. In this case, due to prioritising, some of the statutory tasks of the police will have to be postponed and there is a risk that they will not even be carried out. International cooperation cannot be overemphasized in the fight against terrorism. It has been done for a long time, but there is a need to intensify and develop international cooperation. This is where Mr Juncker recently presented paragraph 17 in his speech on the state of the Union for the development of the EU. I would like to raise four points under the heading Safe Europe, which in particular delight and demonstrate the potential benefits for Finland's internal security of cooperation within the EU: a common intelligence unit, a cyber security agency, a common prosecutor's office entitled to cross-border prosecution in terrorist offences and, as the fourth point, a common immigration and asylum system, including more effective returns. I would like to give you a few examples of how to improve the efficiency of returns. The return of a person to many distant lands requires preparation. In the police, in addition to the expulsion proposals, I have also made the implementation of expulsion decisions, so I know the practices from experience. Already at that time, more than 15 years ago, we mapped out the possibility of joint return transport with the other Nordic countries in cases where there are several citizens of the same country. Return flights between different countries could also be used in the EU from the point of view of cost sharing. Mr President! We also have a highly qualified police officer in Finland who has been developing his performance and response to the systematic management of terrorist acts and demanding special situations for years, so it can be said that the police’s basic preparedness is good in relation to the current level of threat. We have all police personnel trained in a tactical approach to stop an armed attack. In February 2017, the Police Government issued guidelines on how police units cooperate with persons threatened by terrorism or violent extremism. Finally, Mr President, I would like to stress that basic police work is also a valuable support for the protection police.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u303	Mr President! In this speech, I will focus on the excellent tax policy of the government. The Board of Directors has implemented significant tax reductions in earned income in 2016 and 2017. In 2018, the Board of Directors will continue in this good line in order to compensate for, among other things, increases in employee contributions, i.e. pension and unemployment insurance contributions. It is estimated that wage and salary income taxation will remain roughly at present, taking into account the increases in wage and salary contributions decided for 2018 and the increase in the overall earnings level. Of course, the tax deduction of earned income also applies to the share of earned income in business income, including agricultural income. The income tax scales are subject to an inflation check and are accompanied by a reduction in the tax burden on labour. In addition, the reduction in labour income and the basic reduction in municipal taxation will be increased. In its mid-summer review of spring 2017, the Government decided to promote the training opportunities of employees by clarifying and extending the tax exemption of education funded by the employer in the field of employee taxation. Under the proposed provision, taxable income does not arise from training paid by the employer in the interests of the employer or of an employer belonging to the same group. The compensation for travel expenses resulting from training paid by the employer would also be exempt from tax on the same basis as the reimbursement of travel expenses incurred in the course of a business trip, i.e. mileage allowances and daily allowances in general. However, taxable income would be compensation for travel expenses for travel trips made by an employee to study a matriculation examination, a vocational undergraduate or a university degree. So it's about basic education. However, if basic education were in the interest of the employer, then tax exemptions could also be applied. In other words, when the employer pays, the question is whether the training is considered to be acquired for the purposes of the employer's income-raising activity or whether it is intended to give the employee a benefit comparable to that of the employee. In its mid-term review, the Government decided to promote regional labour mobility by extending the time limit for tax-free allowances. In accordance with its spring policy, the Government proposes an extension of the 2-year temporary period to 3 years for the payment of tax-exempt daily allowances by the secondment. There are approximately 700 farms in Finland in the form of share companies. However, the transition to share capital has gradually accelerated in agriculture, as has the case with other family businesses. However, this public limited liability has been prevented by the fact that, as a natural person, when a person engaged in a business is transferred to a form of limited liability company, a change in the form of the company, a tax on the transfer of funds, which, in particular in agriculture, is very heavy when there is, of course, a substantial production asset and a tax on the transfer of funds is virtually 4% of the fair value of the assets. It is important that this transfer tax be abolished. It allows for a change in the normal form of business, a change in the form of activity, which, of course, the entrepreneur must be able to do if he wishes. In the stock company, that steak is the 20% corporate tax rate. It makes it possible to act more effectively as a natural person to pay the debts taken for the company’s investments with income financing, in extreme cases up to 80% of taxable income if the income is earned elsewhere. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for abolishing the public service tax for some 400,000 people when the government proposes a change in the public service tax with this in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u304	Mr President! For a long time, we have a situation where, as a result of economic growth, the current year's tax revenue is estimated by the VM to be around half a billion higher than what was in the budget. The revenue for next year is estimated to be around EUR 52.7 billion, of which approximately EUR 4.4 billion for taxes and tax-related payments. The revenue is therefore estimated to be over 2 billion more than this year, and growth is on a more secure basis than in ten years. However, the deficit of EUR 55.7 billion will be around EUR 3 billion. It is covered by borrowing, but if we compare it to the estimated figures this year, which amounted to around 5.5 billion, we are on a much better path. Mr President! Then there are a few things about next year's budget. In connection with the budget debate, the government decided to launch a reform of the family leave system. In addition to family leave, it will examine the development of related family policy, early childhood education and working life issues. This is particularly desirable. It is also to be hoped that the government will remain in its goal, i.e. that the proposal will come to us in the autumn of next year and the reform will thus take effect from the beginning of 2019. It is important that the reform was already set out in the start-up phase with a few frames. The aim is also precisely to increase equality between working life and parenthood and to simplify the support system, and, of course, to develop the existing one. It is time to find flexible solutions that take into account the various life situations of different families, both in terms of work and in terms of studies. It is also important to increase participation in early childhood education. Mr President! Our security environment has changed rapidly and it is therefore important that the government has made the necessary choices. Under the leadership of Minister of Defence Niinistö and Minister of the Interior Risikko, further efforts on security were made in addition to those already decided at the spring spending limits debate. After all, in the spring the 98 million increase was agreed, 52 million of which was for the administrative sectors of the Ministry of Defence and 46 million for the Ministry of the Interior. Now the budget will add another 17 million to internal security, 5 million to speed up asylum processes and 12 million to the police and protection police. A total of EUR 720 million will be proposed for the police action next year, which is about 15 million more than this year. There will be investments in the prevention of police activities and the fight against terrorism, as well as in investments in equipment and new technologies. Cybersecurity expertise will be increased and additional resources allocated to the security of operations, including the fight against the shadow economy and traffic control. An additional EUR 3.5 million will be allocated to the protection police specifically for operational activities in accordance with the spring spending limits decisions, and an additional EUR 5 million will be proposed to the Border Guard to improve internal security compared to this year and an additional amount of more than a million to strengthen border controls at the external borders. Mr President! The government responds to the needs of a skilled workforce and a changing working life with various contributions, and I would like to raise a few important points: Lowering early childhood education fees by EUR 70 million from the beginning of next year will improve the economic situation of families with children, and at the same time the profitability of work will be strengthened. Discounts are targeted at low and middle incomes. In addition, there is a second sister discount, which is significant, from about 20 percent to 50 percent, and especially this has come to a great deal of praise from families with children. Free early childhood education includes 6,700 families, and no one’s fees increase. It is also important that the government invests in the teaching of science and mathematics, it is strengthened by EUR 5 million. Vocational education and training must be targeted at reducing youth unemployment and responding to the need for skills. In addition, a new appropriation of EUR 5 million will be allocated to research, development and innovation activities of universities of applied sciences. Network cooperation between universities will be expanded and EUR 6 million will be proposed to meet the needs of a highly educated workforce in the areas of positive structural change. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u305	Mr President! This time we are drawing up the state budget in somewhat more favourable terms than has been the case in recent years. Economic growth is already serious and there will be more growth in the coming years. A bright outlook for growth shows that a tight economic policy has been bitten and that savings have been needed. In our analogue countries, the economy has been growing for years, and it is good that we are now on the move. However, it must be said that we are, for example, lagging a long way behind Sweden, and even in the near future we are not even at the point where we were when the economic crisis began. So there's a lot to be blackmailed about. The budget total is EUR 55.7 billion and the debt is EUR 2.9 billion. It's less than originally planned. At the end of 2018, the debt ratio will fold, and it is forecast that the debt will amount to EUR 110 billion at the end of next year. The goal is that in 2019 the economy will start to be balanced. In order to achieve this balance, the principles and agreed actions of the Government Programme must be strictly and rigorously respected. The current situation shows that the measures are the right ones and they will bite. In particular, in order to achieve the employment objective and beyond, everything that can be done must be done and, if necessary, new measures must be taken if necessary. For example, the possibilities for local reconciliation in the workplace must be increased, i.e. legislation on local reconciliation needs to be developed. There are many good investments and priorities in the budget. More attention will be paid to security and more money will be paid to the police, the protection police and the Border Guard. It should be noted that this increase in investment is not sufficient in the long term, but measures must be taken to increase the number of police officers, for example, by increasing the number of posts to at least 8,000. The government invests in families, pensions, entrepreneurship, research, harmful taxes and so on. No one's taxation will be tightened and the impact of the competitiveness pact will be compensated for by wage and salary earners. This is a good thing. Income differentials can be predicted to decrease with an increase in employment. Mr President! The number of transport infrastructure development projects in the budget is lower than usual. The reason is understandable: scarcity is distributed to transport on the same scale as to other administrative sectors. The development projects in Vuosaari and Kokkola are important for exports and are therefore justified. The replacement of the Hail Luoto ferry on the bridge will pay for itself, so that development project is also justified. If a project had been allowed to be part of the budget, it would have been a development project for the Kirri-Tikkakoski interstate on Route 4. Highway 4 is one of our most important export routes and traffic there is large. Hopefully, this necessary project will receive funding in the coming years so that the Middle Finns and others will be able to drive the Kirri-Tikkakoski gap along the new road.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u306	Mr President! The Government has decided to maintain regional transport aid. This is a very important decision for companies in Eastern and Northern Finland in particular. Aid has been paid to industrial SMEs in Eastern and Northern Finland for rail or road transport of at least 266 km. Several major investment projects are underway in Eastern Finland and its neighbouring regions. The aid provides the basis for the competitiveness of companies in North Karelia and neighbouring regions. I believe that the continuation of transport aid and its permanent establishment and the development of a law that is more competitive and sufficient in terms of volume of aid is a prerequisite for the success of the regions in terms of competition with the rest of the country. It must be remembered that this transport aid is the only company aid approved by the Finnish EU Accession Agreement. It does not distort competition as it does not affect the costs of a product at risk for business. Transport aid reduces the harm caused by the company’s remoteness. It is also an excellent solution to many of the factors that undermine competitiveness, such as the EU's tightening emission limits, which will cause additional costs for road transport. By developing transport aid, the government will enable and strengthen economic growth, especially now that the economic crisis in Europe will continue to weaken the prospects for Finland's export industry in the coming years. In practice, transport aid improves the opportunities for peripheral products to cope with price competition and secure jobs in these regions. In this way, part of the aid will be returned as a tax to the State and the municipalities. In addition, transport aid continues to encourage capital and investment in areas where other conditions of competition in the region are in place. Maintaining transport aid is a very sensible decision from the government and shows understanding for entrepreneurs living in rural areas. One thing, which is also a very important decision from the government, is the car scrapping premium and the fact that it will continue. For next year's budget, the State has granted EUR 8 million for the extension of the scrapping premium. A car over ten years old will be scrapped with a refund of 1500 euros when buying a new car. Credits will be granted for as long as 8 million pots last. In February 2016, I took the initiative to return the scrapping premium. It is a very good thing that this is now progressing to the point of implementation. The scrapping premium will be very important from the point of view of government tax revenues and employment opportunities. In the future, the goal will be to make the fleet younger, more environmentally friendly and safer. In addition, the continuation of the scrapping premium is a good continuation of the government’s decision to reduce the car tax gradually. Then, Mr President, a little more about Customs. I believe that Customs is clearly an internal security actor. In addition to the police and the Border Guard, Customs is a central internal security authority focusing on freight traffic control and operating at all Finnish borders, including internal borders. However, the resources for monitoring are very limited. The budget proposal will make it possible for Customs staff not to need to be significantly reduced next year, at least by replacing some of them. To a small extent, Customs can acquire the much needed new skills in the fight against cybercrime, for example. Unfortunately, the proposed budget does not allow sufficient technical control technology to be developed. Let me give you two main examples. In addition to customs, the police and Border Guard in particular are very important The numbering system for registration plates and containers, maintained by Customs, needs to be updated and completed quickly. Similarly, maintaining an appropriate level of control over rapidly increasing online commerce is not appropriate by increasing the number of staff involved in these tasks; instead, the additional need for staff should be replaced by the development of an automated control line using modern technology in Post Customs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u307	Mr President! It is a pleasure to make a budget with a 3% increase, and perhaps it reflects this budget book. This is like a relief budget when the growth of the global economy has started to be seen here in Finland. Nevertheless, these adjustments, which have been made during this government and during the previous government, have, of course, been necessary. Perhaps a few words now to begin with, that in fact there were considerably more adjustments made during the previous term of government than during this term of government, but the difference is that the adjustment of this term of government is made by more cutting,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u312	Mr President! Thank you for the discussions that have taken place over the last few days. For my part, I will try to shed light on my own and blue vision of next year's budget and the bright future. I personally believe that this time, good economic development and government action will be a positive development for society over the coming years. The general development of the world economy, of course the social partners, of course the companies and the Finnish people, is to be commended for the positive rise. The good faith of ordinary people is, of course, influenced by this government, whose actions make the growth of our country’s economy even faster than the growth of the world. The government budget for next year will support economic growth, job creation, tax relief and government debt cuts. The dark decade of the Finnish economy is over. This year, economic growth is at a rapid rate of 3%, and it is expected that next year will be a good year — exports are already growing faster than imports. A significant gain from the bet on exports belongs to the improved competitiveness of our country. Industrial orders have grown by nearly 20 per cent compared to the previous year, and what is important is that nearly 440,000 tourists visited Finland in July: more than before the recession. In particular, this development seems to be at home in Lapland, where you visit or have already visited a record number of tourists this year. The peace and security of Lapland has led the Chinese, Jews and peoples of the Far East to choose Lapland. They think our country is safe, clean and well served. So there's no reason to throw anything on top of the ashes. It is important to note that in January to July, 15 per cent fewer bankruptcies were started than one year earlier. At the end of July, there were nearly 50,000 fewer unemployed job seekers than last year. What is important: next year the unemployment rate will fall by one per cent. This trend is correct. But more measures are needed to support employment. In order to increase employment and reduce the duration of unemployment, an active model will be introduced in the form of days of take-over. The use of unemployment benefit for starting a business and for short-term studies is possible. This is an important advantage for the start-up entrepreneur. A lot has been said about corporate subsidies and their effects have been criticised. I'm glad we're talking. But now it's time to investigate, and then it's time to waste. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy will set up a working group to which the representation of all parliamentary groups will be called, I stress. The working group will draw up a long-term plan and proposals for the reform of business subsidies, including direct subsidies and tax subsidies. I would like to take, for example, the tax relief for transport aid and passenger companies in Northern and Eastern Finland, specifically for small companies. The transport aid is targeted specifically at small companies and improves the competitiveness of companies behind long distances, while the tax incentives for passenger companies are targeted specifically at small companies. For example, the entire tourism economy in Lapland relies on micro-enterprises. They're getting tax relief. There is no basis here for saying that populistly it is claimed that the aid is targeted at pharmacies, but only a few dozen of which receive an advantage of around EUR 5000 per year. In reality, this support is directed to a few hundred thousand micro-enterprises of one man and woman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u313	Mr President! In yesterday's debate on the Home Affairs Department's debate, a little limited speaking time left a few things unsaid, which I will say at this point. In that debate, as well as in the government's proposal, there was a great deal of disproportion that these issues are not always just resource issues. Not only does it help to make more money, but it should also be allocated a little more rationally. It's not always about resources. There is talk, for example, of spending about 30 million on online police and 9 million on preventing terrorism. The relationship is completely backwards. We all understand in reality that when there are such cases, when military personnel are told not to wear dark uniforms or when other uniforms are told not to move around in uniforms, then the Finns are not excluded from being the ones who threaten these people. We all know who is threatening them when we are honest and admit it. Apart from the fact that there is not quite the wrong picture of the functioning of the economy and of the economy as a whole, it must be remembered that the provision of taxpayers' money for the operation of reception centres is just the beginning. It won't stop when that person comes out of that reception process. After becoming a municipality, various types of social assistance, all-looking housing money, probably including crime and its multiplier effects, will begin. The bill as a whole is billions. As far as reception centre activities are concerned, I have been asking for several years, I have received slightly less answers, where the reduction in the unit costs of reception centres is taking place. Schools save, old people save, everything else saves and cuts. It cannot be thought that reception is a sacred cow that cannot be subjected to austerity pressure. The reception activity has decreased, temporary arrangements have been dismantled, but has it led to a reduction in unit costs? Unfortunately, the Minister is not responding to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u314	Mr President! I would like to comment on the fact that Mr Mäkelä pointed out that hate-talking police were unnecessary: I see now that there is a need for them. If you think about it from the point of view that even if there were a lot of such radical jihadistic conversation and things on the Internet, then you would probably see that even that speech can have such an effect on some individuals that they carry out those things. Just as much as this is in the United Nations, yesterday I followed the debates in the various countries, and the prevention of violent extremism is one of the top priorities that has been identified around the world and within the UN. From the draft budget, I am raising the increase of EUR 300000 to domestic civilian crisis management capabilities. This means that civilian crisis management will receive EUR 1739000 in full. In recent years, when a massive asylum crisis or mass movement started towards Europe, whoever defined it, there was at the same time a wider understanding of root causes that drive people away from their countries. I remember when at the University of Helsinki, when studying political science, our lecturer said that for African youth emigration was a survival strategy — and this was long before even Europe began to move towards this movement. This is precisely the root causes of civilian crisis management. Of course, it is not the only way to stabilise societies in crisis, but it is a very important one. Mr President! The police services also earned additional resources for their equipment. Last week I met the Helsinki Horse Cops. Only here in Helsinki is the Mount Police Unit, which can be used by other cities and municipalities by making a request for official assistance, and this has also been done and done. We discussed with these cavalry officers how an excellent tool the horse is in various public events and demonstrations that we have witnessed in recent years. The reason why I link this to this equipment is because they told me that, of course, this response to the request for official assistance requires a horse-car, but also within Helsinki, if you go to East Helsinki, then it is already such a journey — as well as when you want to extend the horse’s time — that it makes sense to transport horses by horse-carrier. However, they have a horse truck that could be considered a little problematic even for animal protection reasons, because if you have to go and see the horse while driving, you can’t do it; you have to stop the car, three horses out and then you get the last one to look at it. We know that the police are exemplary and that their equipment should also be exemplary, so I would see here too that, hopefully, the police there will be able to share these resources in such a way that the necessary needs of the cavalry will also be taken into account. They did tell the positive news that they have battery - heated shoes that help because it is cold in winter to be on a horse for several hours, and there were hopes of getting gloves that the fingers would not freeze. But otherwise, as I said before, I am very pleased with these resources invested in internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u315	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the draft budget for 2018. This is an excellent package, which will now be discussed by the committees, and it will certainly go even deeper into the details. Indeed, Mr Paatero was able to leave, but at least the government and the demars have the same title, 'growth belongs to everyone', although I am sure there will then be some different nuances in the content, and it is a good thing that the Green Left also states that we now have growth. Well, that took some time. Finland was in recession for almost ten years, and it is only now that we reach this growth crest. Yes, it must be admitted that the reform policy of Sipilä's Government has worked well and Finland's wheels are spinning again. The economy is growing, employment is improving and the end of debt is slowly getting closer. After two years, Finland will be in better shape and the future will look much brighter now. The Centre kept its promise to put the Finnish economy in order. It is now fair to say that the line we have chosen has worked. However, the task is not all done and done before Finns can enjoy the fruits of growth. It is through this that growth belongs to everyone. The employment targets for the government are that the employment rate would rise to 72. We have already climbed from 67 to 69, and there is a prospect that at least 70% will be achieved, and it would be great if we also achieved 72% during this government. In reality, we should pursue an even higher employment rate. Unemployment has also fallen during this government, and the new budget for improving employment and promoting employment offers great relief. The problem of meeting is probably what we still need to invest in in addition to the budget, and that is mental investment when reforms come to the regional level, in what way we take account of business, education and regional development. By the combined effect of these things, we can get people to work even better. I have a great deal of grief about youth unemployment and investing in it. After all, the government is now investing in the provision of education for about 1000 student years and is giving some 9.4 million more money, 25 million more in equality in education, and then 15 million euros in secondary reform. For myself, I would see that this reform of secondary education should now be carried out with great caution, so that we have places for secondary schools in different parts of Finland. It is an important regional development factor, but it is also important in such a way that, when our business activities operate in a wide area, we will have a good workforce. As Mr Paatero said earlier, the debt may not be repaid during this term of government, but the government has promised that the debt will be written off in 2020. Now we have a good career, since last year we had 5.4 billion and now we have 2.96 billion in the budget. The next year, hopefully, with growth, it will continue to be less and achieve its objective so that we also have room for manoeuvre in other state activities. Indeed, in the context of the road links, the government must thank the government for having front-loaded major road infrastructure projects and, therefore, the road repair debt has fallen, and if a little more is invested, it would go down. When we are in Pirkanmaa, I might mention that the renovation of the Thirds is very necessary. There have been serious road accidents recently. The road towards Jyväskylä, or Ysitie, is very crowded and dangerous, and there have also been accidents. I hope for funding for this, but, yes, when we went there to Äänekoski, I am also in favour of refurbishment of the Kirri-Tikkakoski road section, so that traffic conditions can also improve northwards. I still see that the reforms we need to carry out, the municipal and regional reforms according to their timetable, and also to keep the municipalities involved. We need new life-support services for municipalities, new vitality, and we need to bring this change to the table positively in the municipalities. The role of agriculture is in a very difficult situation, and must be invested in it, both mentally, as the government has invested in this, and also in the way we make agriculture even more profitable for exports of agricultural products and also, it is said, economically and rationally. The great thing was now that the taxation of public limited liability companies will be reduced by the establishment of limited liability companies in agriculture, and this will bring the activities of even large agricultural companies to an active level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u316	Mr President! I am very pleased that the government supports fisheries projects because endangered fish species in Finland and elsewhere are very close to my heart. In the budget debate, the Government has allocated EUR 3 million to support fisheries projects. In order to improve the vitality of fish stocks, the appropriation will be used to implement projects promoting the flow of fish, the natural increase in fish stocks and the maintenance of biodiversity. This is an excellent decision from the government, and one might ask: Why now? However, the main focus of the strategy for fisheries has finally been taken into account. It is very important for the government to take into account the need to safeguard the vitality of highly endangered fish, because this generation is the key to securing endangered fish species for future generations as well. Lake salmon in Saimaa is a regional fish in South Savo and North Karelia. Lake salmon in Saimaa is an extremely endangered species. Organic reproduction of lake salmon has been prevented as a result of human activity and the species has survived only by fish farming. Due to the continued decline of genetic material leading to extinction, the species needs to be able to reproduce in nature again. This work is being carried out, among other things, in a project being prepared in North Karelia with the aim of creating a significant number of new breeding and breeding areas for lake salmon. The same work is also done in Myllykoski, Savonranta, and in the waters of Nilsia – thinking about my constituency. Thus, a unique cooperation project has been launched in North Karelia to save lake salmon. The project under preparation aims to create a significant number of new breeding and breeding areas for lake salmon in a floodbed in connection with the Kuurna power plant in Pielisjoki. The total cost of fishing renovations and the related planning of Saimaa’s lake salmon top project is approximately EUR 2 million. Measures aimed at restoring the reproductive potential of lake salmon will be financed through state support for key projects and private funding. These are precisely the kind of fisheries-related projects we need in the regions. Not just protection, but improving living conditions. Thank you to the government for this key project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u317	Mr President! Finally, the government has taken over the tax solutions of the power companies. At last, wind power will be transferred to the taxation of power plants in real estate taxation. At the same time, the Government proposes that the property tax on power plants will increase from 3.1 to 3.5%. This will have a significant impact. For example, there are 18 of these power plants owned by large companies in the river Oulu, 21 in the river Kemijoki catchment area and 8 in the river Ii. Now, at last, there is a return to the torments and disadvantages that have been inflicted on poor municipalities over decades. This government has taken tourism as its top priority. Tourism 4.0 — Rapid growth and employment measures will support the exceptionally good development of tourism to Finland between 2018 and 2019. This is a very important measure and region to support the tourism economy. It should be remembered that tourism is the fifth largest export sector in Finland and, importantly, tourism is the only export sector where consumption takes place in Finland and which pays VAT for its activities. It therefore makes sense to target support for the tourism economy, as the government has done. Over 29,000 enterprises in the tourism sector, mainly micro-enterprises, employ around 140 000 people, which is 5.5 per cent of the labour force. The majority of the labour force is young: workers under the age of 26 account for one third of the total. They also employ in areas where employment, for example because of the remoteness of the region, can be difficult, in particular in Eastern and Northern Finland. A little bit of that security. I welcome the additional EUR 12 million allocated to the fight against terrorism. The budget for the police and the protection police has been increased in the spring spending limits debate and now in the budget debate. An additional EUR 9 million was made available in the budget debate to increase the equipment and equipment of police demanding situations, improve operational performance and cybercrime response capacity, and half a million to develop preventative activities. It is also important that EUR 2.5 million was allocated to improve the operational performance of the protection police, which will be used specifically for the acquisition, processing and analysis of information on terrorism and extremism and for activities based on information obtained, such as the supervision of target persons. A key part is also that EUR 7.9 million was allocated to the Border Guard to improve internal security. EUR 265000 was allocated to Emergency Response Centre Emergency Response Team training and EUR 300000 to improve the domestic preparedness of civilian crisis management. They are significant amounts of euro in this particular area. An increase of EUR 50 million will be allocated to defence in order to improve the preparedness required to change the security environment. The implementation of the asylum policy action plan prepared by the Government in autumn 2015 will be enhanced, the expulsion of persons convicted of terrorist offences will be intensified and, what is important, the Citizenship Act will be updated so that Finnish citizenship can be annulled from persons with dual citizenship who have participated in terrorist activities. This is an important message.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u318	Mr President! That's what Mr. Ruoho said: Of course, it would be nice to believe and hope that these funds will be used to combat Islamic and jihadist hate speech, but unfortunately, when the matter has been clarified, knowledge will add to the pain. Representative Juho Eerola has asked in writing whether such activities can be carried out and has received an answer that the police have access to translation and interpretation services and technology-based solutions for hate speech screening. When further research was carried out by the Finnish News on 12 September, the director of the hate speech group of the Helsinki Police Department, Superintendent Jouni Niskanen, said that there are no Somali or Arabic speakers in the group and that indeed such cases when investigated, they will be investigated if the crimes are suspected, but that interpretation services are used to solve these crimes. When one could imagine that this was their type of bread, they have no one who could even speak these languages. So isn't this a bit of a silly thing to carry light in a bag into a dark room? Do you think these interpretations will be included in this appropriation? In addition, even Prime Minister Sipilä in Question Time a few weeks ago made statements which could be interpreted as underestimating the seriousness of Islamist hate speech. In this climate of attitude, I strongly doubt that these resources, which are now being allocated here, will actually be used for this purpose. What will taxpayers’ money eventually be spent on?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u319	Mr President! Mäkelä raised an important point, which I myself have also asked about and pointed out that there is, of course, a need for the Arab police. I remember, it must have been more than 20 years since I worked for the foreign police, that there was already such a thing that he did speak Arabic. But these are the very policemen who are quickly recruited to the KRP as well as everywhere. It would be extremely important for us to have those who even speak Arabic as their native language in a very smooth manner. Then you understand all the nuances of the world, and so forth. You did bring it up in the sense that this is an important issue, that it should also be in possession of the knowledge of the Arabic language. But I meant that we do have cases where such violent acts of hatred can also be done by the native Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u320	Mr President! Just a few more points. There is always some room for correction in a good budget, and I will take a few small withdrawals from here. These are very important. When I talked about youth unemployment, there is a very significant cut in the activities of the 4H associations, among other things, which is now linked to this budget line, and ProAgria is equally active. I hope, at this reading, that the Committee on Finance will find funding in some of these areas, just as has been found in previous years, and fortunately Christmas has come and the associations have been active. With regard to higher education and research, it is proposed that EUR 3.303 billion, which is around 21 million less than in the previous year. We have a very important university education and research if we are also raising Finland up. I very much hope that EUR 7 million will also be found in other budget lines for the Tampere 3 project to study and study these strategic funding bases. It needs a total of around EUR 43.5 million for three years, with a deficit of about EUR 7 million. Tampere 3 is an important reform. It combines a university of applied sciences, a university of technology and the University of Tampere, and the need for capital is about two hundred million, of which the state would account for 150. It is great that we now have this cutting edge unit coming to Aalto University and this region of Helsinki, and that is how we will also strengthen our innovation and competence development activities. But I also hope that, in the Tampere region, our top-level unit will gain strength for its growth and for the start of new activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u321	Mr President! I would like to comment on these interpretations by Mr Mäkelä and Mr Ruoho. We have had the Roma as a minority in Finland for 500 years, and at the moment, for example, the Police College of Applied Sciences teaches nothing about their culture. I consider this to be a very special matter. I also think that some training would be needed for the police. The Government's proposal for a law on the imposition of fines and fines is also in this budget, and the Government's proposal proposes to extend the actual use of the fine procedure by transferring powers to the police to impose all aspects of non-driving sanctions. As a result of this change, drink-driving could be dealt with in a fine procedure. A driving ban would be imposed on the basis of a valid solution in the administrative procedure. I believe that this is a step in the right direction. When the matter is clear and simple, why burden courts with it? As also stated in the proposal: "The courts are currently solving a large number of clear and simple drunken driving offences that would be appropriate for the purposes of the fine procedure. The extension of the scope of the fine procedure would allow the resources of courts and prosecutors to be allocated to cases for which judicial review is necessary, inter alia, for reasons of legal security, thereby safeguarding the right of citizens to have their case dealt with without undue delay." This change has been long awaited by the police, so thank you to the government for this proposal. I hope this goes all the way to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u322	As a lawyer, I welcome the fact that the district court network will be more efficient with the coming year and the future budget. Currently, the problem in Finland is that district courts do not specialise in different areas. This reform means that in the future district courts will focus on different areas of competence: district courts will have departments that will be able to work and familiarise themselves, for example, with the resolution of disputes in the construction sector, bankruptcy proceedings, various specific areas of criminal law. This is an important reform and improves legal certainty through knowledge. However, this will require measures to be taken in the outermost regions and in the localities where no district court or court service is available, it will be possible to obtain public legal aid from private operators, as public legal aid does not cover or reach localities such as Salla, Hanko, Lieksa or Ostrobothnia. It is important that this development be continued by the Ministry of Justice so that citizens are equal in access to justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u323	Mr President! Preventing exclusion is also a safety issue. It is for the person himself — regrettably many marginalised people end up committing suicide or, fortunately, less likely to target violence against others. From this point of view, of course, immigrants are particularly vulnerable. That is why I am going to early childhood education and say that it is in the interests of children from immigrant backgrounds to participate in early childhood education as much as possible in order to ensure language learning and the integration of the entire family. Indeed, the benefits of early childhood education are linked to its significant impact on the school performance of pupils with an immigrant background. Pisa studies have found that children with an immigrant background in early childhood education are clearly more successful than those who have not. Differences in performance levels are at worst equivalent to two school years. It has been stated here for several years from different groups that integration has not been very successful in Finland, but it is by investing in this, early childhood, that we can keep people with us right from the start. Mr President! More about the well-being of children and families: All children have the right to 20 hours of early childhood education per week. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million from the beginning of next year, and this brings, as has been mentioned several times today, 6,700 families into free early childhood education. At the same time, the sister discount on early childhood education fees will be increased to 50%. In addition, a good government has decided to launch an experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds, and EUR 5 million of state funding will be spent on this experiment. I will take examples of the financial impact of these reductions on families. The average-income family of two children saves around 1000 euros a year thanks to discounts. The same family of two children on average income loses EUR 200 per year due to the removal of children. When these are netted among each other, the family will remain around EUR 800 to EUR 1000 plus, depending on the case. A family of two children with less than average income saves more than 1500 euros a year, payments fall by 137 euros a month. The biggest discounts for families are up to 2,800 euros a year. What are these reductions in payments? They significantly improve incentives to work. The Government launched a reform of family leave aimed at higher participation rates in early childhood education, flexibility in family life, equality between parents and higher employment rates. The family leave model of the Coalition Party meets all the objectives and fits on top of everything in the framework of public finances. This increase in the participation rate of early childhood education aims to support educational pathways from childhood onwards. Participation in early childhood education improves the child’s qualifications and ability to train in the future. Finland is lagging behind other Nordic countries and OECD levels in early childhood education, and this is now being addressed. Thank you, good government!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u324	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! On security, I thought I'd make my final speech today. The security environment has changed very quickly. I myself started about six years ago in the Committee on Defence, and I remember how we thought that when the defence power reform was completed, then it would be more peaceful in that sector. But as far back as last season, the events showed that the situation did not calm down, but there has been much to do, and so has been the case now during this reign. I would like to pay great tribute to the current Minister of Defence, Jussi Niinistö, who has been determined to tackle these changes in the security environment. There have been a number of measures and many other legislative reforms, such as the fourth role of the Defence Forces in receiving international aid and providing international assistance. The threat of terrorism has increased throughout Europe. There have been a lot of attacks, and the first attack has also taken place in Finland, and that is why the budget for internal security is being increased, for example, to the police and the protection police. A total of EUR 44 million has been allocated to the police and EUR 6 million to the protection police for next year, and this is precisely to respond to this changed situation of internal security. In addition, an additional EUR 9 million was decided in the Budget Committee to increase the equipment and equipment of demanding police situations, improve operational performance and cybercrime performance, and EUR 0.5 million to develop models of preventive action. Additional funds and intelligence legislation are also being prepared for the protection police. By the day I said that I hope that the intelligence law will be brought forward, that it will no longer be blocked. We have evidence from other countries that intelligence legislation has prevented terrorist attacks, for example in Sweden. Go and know whether, in the case of Turku, for example, up-to-date intelligence legislation could have been helpful. At least so far it has not been made known, but it may be that the investigation will also reveal it in due course. The number of police officers can be kept in that 7200 police officers, but I personally believe that we should find a common way to increase the number of police officers. We are a long way from what has been said in this Chamber about the development of the number of police officers. The Defence Forces are now implementing the lines of the Defence Report. The priorities are the development of the immediate preparedness forces of all branches of defence, as well as the preparedness forces, the replacement of marine and air defence capabilities, i.e. the HX project, and the development of new capabilities. The Ministry of Defence's budget proposal for 2018 is approximately EUR 48 million higher than this year, i.e. additional funds will also be allocated to the Defence Forces. EUR 50 million has been added to improve the preparedness for change in the security environment and EUR 2 million to recruit contract soldiers. The National Defence Training Association is now automatically allocated to the budget the appropriations that were once included in these theatrical cuts that I have said, of which it has been known that they will be returned to Parliament, but in previous years, for example, there have been situations where MPK has started negotiations on the basis of a cut in funding for them, knowing that the money will be returned to Parliament, but when it has not been guaranteed, this has been the case. Now there's no need for this. The Ministry of Defence's contribution to GDP will be next year
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u325	Mr President! A budget of around EUR 2.6 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry next year. In the draft budget, the budget will increase by EUR 10.5 million compared to this year's budget. The employment effect of agriculture, the food industry and the entire food chain is about 340000 people, i.e. it is not a small number. Food exports have already started to grow slightly, which is an excellent thing. Unfortunately, however, the increase in exports has not helped the plight of farmers, and this rainy summer is certainly not doing so. The main resource of the agricultural enterprise is the agricultural entrepreneur himself. Sometimes, however, mental or financial resources may be put to the test and help is needed. Farmers' Pension Institution In 2017, she received an additional financial contribution to help farmers in difficulty. Mela’s assistance is targeted both directly at support measures affecting the survival of farmers and long-term, preventive well-being work. In my view, it is very important that such projects have been carried out in order to enable farmers to cope with their important work. In the 2018 budget, EUR 2 million has also been earmarked for the main category of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to support the survival of farmers. Half of the amount will be allocated to the relief of payments for replacement relief and the other half to the Retirement Farmers' Pension Facility project. The budget for the natural resource economy will also increase net next year by EUR 4 million. The most significant addition is to the Metso programme, which I consider to be a very important issue. The funds for the promotion of game and fisheries will also increase as a result of the increases in the fees for game management and fisheries management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u326	Mr President! In order to improve the position of over-indebtedness, the Ministry of Justice will assess the need for legislative changes related to over-indebtedness in the coming period, such as the establishment of a positive credit register, the regulation of quick credit and the possibility for entrepreneurs to start business and life. However, it is essential that financial and debt counselling services are transferred to legal aid offices. If we go through a little history in the 1990s, Finland collapsed into a deep recession and we created a system in which those financial and debt advisory services were seen as important, and they were entrusted to the municipalities. However, as things developed and complex debt situations developed, many municipalities were unable to provide and have not been able to provide a service that would correspond to the current situation and facilitate the position of the over-indebted. In many municipalities, it takes several months to get into debt counselling. For my part, of course, I have experienced this in my own law firm, where customers come from these municipal sectors because entrepreneurs who have fallen into a very bad position have not received enough help. It is particularly good that it should be taken over by the state and that fair treatment of people across the country is achieved on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u327	Mr President! Mr Heinonen raised the number of police officers and expressed his view that it could be higher in the future than 7200. Great. That's what I thought. We have had an expert here in Parliament, and we have presented the number of police officers in the Nordic countries in proportion to the population. In that comparison, Finland is the country with the lowest number of police officers. Although we have more or less the same social structures and the role of the police, the threats to society, both the former and the newer, are the same in this permanently changed environment. Mr President! Intelligence legislation must be completed and enforced as soon as possible. Even the internal security strategy, if I remember correctly, has stated, and what I myself think is important to take into account the need to take account of and anticipate the future in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u328	Mr President! Some time ago, there was talk of threats to the police, and that is also the case with parliamentarians and ministers, we have read about this in the newspapers, and we Members of Parliament were also asked this question from one side of the paper. I am absolutely sure that people who responded to these threats by their own name will also continue to receive attention. But we should also consider the way in which the government is able to protect the MPs also on business trips, including at home, and, if you think of ministers, the ministers have security, but the next day, when the minister's job ends, the security officer will no longer exist. How can they be protected from now on — as soon as Minister Risikko shows up, I will ask him again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u329	Mr President! This security has been discussed, and I understand, of course, that it certainly concerns everyone at the moment, both us decision-makers and everyone in Finland. It might be said that the police were lucky enough that this incident took place in Turku, where police patrols are located near the market, as in large cities in general, and this perpetrator was able to be dealt with in minutes. But I have also received a distressed message from the citizens that if this event had been, for example, In Lapland ski resorts or in rural areas, in fact, anywhere, we would have a different situation. That is why I am very concerned that, in our rural areas, from where I come from, the police are not visible enough in everyday life. I understand that in a small place, of course, the police will not be able to prevent this type of incident, but it will have a preventative effect on many events if the police are seen there from time to time. In that sense, the abolition of a mobile police force and the transfer of its activities to other police activities may have been, in this light, if not wrong, at least a measure that undermines the situation. Personally, I would like to think again about how to raise the visibility of the police in people's everyday lives. It would be very important for us to be able to raise that number of police officers from that 7200, which is now the limit, clearly higher in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u330	Mr President! Mr Heinonen raised another issue which certainly pleased all of us in the Chamber, who have a fine past in the mobile police force. This is the case with the need for a mobile police force, and it has been needed in many different contexts, even with the citizens' feedback, back. However, what Mr Kulmala has raised is an important matter. In other words, threats, intimidation or at least some kind of bullying against politicians: I was asked the same question myself, and I first replied to the reporter this way that I would not like to talk about those things again. But then we ended up with the journalist, discussed the matter, and it was said that silence on such a matter is the very purpose of those who do this disgusting thing. It is also a measure of contempt for democracy, an attempt to make the other person quiet, to avoid talking about it and not to tell them about it. I was very pleased when our finance minister, Orpo, defended his wife. They had suffered for a long time from the fact that such false information was disseminated, and then it resulted in various very unpleasant things for the family — just as police officers are getting more and more of this kind of harassment today and who also then, in a long relationship, wrecks confidence in the police, when it is spread in public, in various media, on the social media side — and I am a little bit insisting that this development should be stopped. So to lie, to spread lies, you have to stop. We're kind of used to it, we cops are used to something, we have thick leather, we can handle it. But then, when it comes to not only affecting us individuals but also our families, it is already too far gone, and I see that we must not remain silent on this matter. We can't have any of those pills. It is no longer as it was in the past that talking about immigration was a bit of a taboo, that we were not allowed to talk about it — today it is a normal day to discuss it, even though it has always been the case, if there have been security issues, they have been done for years. The Coalition Party has also done a very good job in the security sector, but it had not made a great deal of noise about it. So now it has become such an impression that there is only one particular group who would know something about these things, even though in reality this government has been doing that good work for a long time, and as evidenced by the fact that even in the spring spending limits debate, it was decided that there would be more resources for the contribution. We were well placed, as we know, that we are also in constant contact with professionals and authorities in this field. They raised the threat level then, on the subject. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u331	The 28th issue of the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. Next, I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u332	The representative of the plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u333	Mr President! At the turn of next year, several hundred sign language interpreters will be left without work. This is due to the fact that the Social Insurance Institution has taken responsibility for coordinating the provision of interpretations in sign language. In practice, this means that a large proportion of the companies providing interpretation services are excluded from this pool of service providers which have been awarded a framework agreement. In practice, the number of interpreters falls from 850 to 450. My question is: how does the government intend to secure the availability of sign language interpreters also next year, when there is really only a fraction of the previous number of interpreters available?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u334	Madam President! Representative Plant, you know that my heart certainly beats in sign language, I am from a sign language family. It is very unfortunate that these messages are now being transmitted. Kela has indeed made this tendering and reorganization of sign language interpretation. Competition has now taken place, and there will then be a hearing in October, so there is certainly not all that is finally known about what will become of this latest competition. But believe me, and I assure you that I will work for sign language and interpretation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u335	And now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u336	Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution is also changing the contractual terms of the interpretation services in sign language. From the beginning of next year, service providers will not, for example, be compensated for the time spent by the interpreter on business trips. In practice, this reduces the availability of interpretation services in sparsely populated areas, where travel may take more time than interpreting itself. Moreover, under the new terms of the contract, even if the need for interpretation is prolonged for one reason or another, the interpreter can no longer be flexible. However, the need for stretching is common, as not all situations can be predicted in advance, for example, at Kela's office. The purpose of interpreting sign language is that the person using sign language is able to participate equally in society. I therefore ask: how will the availability of interpretation services in sign language be secured next year, especially in sparsely populated areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u337	Madam President! That's an extremely good question. I come from a few regions myself, and I would like to know how we have an unhindered society, and I therefore, of course, encourage Kela to solve this problem and also Kela's delegates, who are made up of parliamentarians, and many of Kela's delegates are sitting in this Chamber. I also hope that we can all think about this together, as well as the Kela Government, of course. Of course, they comply with Finnish laws, and we must see if there may then be something to change in the legislation. But that message must also come from Kela towards the Ministry that this can be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u338	Värderade Talman! Är regeringen medveten om den oerhört svåra och trängda situation de manniskor som använder sig av det finlandssssvenska teckenspråket befinner sig i? Inga tolkar har utbildats i Finland sedan början av 90-talet, ingen utbildning ordnas sedan början av 90-talet, forskning Saknas och så vidare. Hela infrastructuren saknas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u339	Mr President! Thank you for the question, and here too we must thank the previous government, which has created a sign language law, so I hope you will not shoot the messenger, because this problem has been with us for decades and it is only now, I believe, that it is beginning to change and also, of course, it requires money and, last season, it called for a financial contribution to ensure that the Swedish sign language was taken into account. In this respect, I have met both Finnish-speaking and Finnish-speaking interpreters, sign-language interpreters, on many occasions, and this issue has just been the subject of good discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u341	Mr President! Thank you for the question, and so do I. Yes, I want the spirit of the Sign Language Act to come true, and I think that Kela must also follow the law. As we also know, we are in the middle of something. This has been the subject of a competition round, and there will be a consultation. Now is the time for us to tackle together, Kela's delegates, Kela's government, all of us, to make this a better world and a more accessible society for sign-language speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u342	Madam President! I believe that sign language services are those where regional reform and digitisation projects are able to provide assistance. I would therefore like to hear from Minister Vehviläinen how the digital projects are currently progressing and how they are able to reach that distance and what can be done in interpreting services, for example. The interpreting service, implemented through digitalisation, destroys its distance, and the best interpreters and experts can be used from all over Finland. Can you tell me, Minister Vehviläinen, what has the government done in this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u343	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that this sign language law, which has been adopted two years ago, is certainly a fundamental issue. That is why it must be based on the fact that sign language is entitled to that right and, as has been said here, Swedish-speaking signage too. Then, to this question by Mr Heikkinen, we will also have to put the Accessibility Directive into national implementation next year, and that means that special groups that are able to make use of digitalisation and electronic services will also be in the area of accessibility, and perhaps this will also help to make use of this sign language. In other words, as the representative has just said, not everything is always physically feasible. I can say that I am not sufficiently familiar with the issue of sign language to say how it would be implemented in practice, but there will be more opportunities and more whipping, because this accessibility directive must be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u344	Madam President! The spirit of the new Sign Language Act is that everyone has the right to their native language, that children receive instruction in sign language if it is their native language, that vital services are available in sign language. Now this situation that Kela has not admitted interpreters is completely absurd. People are distressed, services are not working, interpreters are becoming unemployed. I hope that the government will intervene in this matter more strongly than you have promised now in the ministerial box. When there is also a huge reform of social security, sign language users are concerned about how their linguistic rights will be taken into account in this reform, especially as the situation today is what it is. My question to the government is: how do you intend to safeguard the rights and rights of sign-language speakers in the reform of social services in their own mother tongue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u345	Mr President! This is a very important question. We each have the right to receive our services in our native language. I also think that it is particularly valuable when it comes to the service that is to be safeguarded in times of need. On the other hand, in interpreting services and in the case of sign-language speakers, it is a question of the need for daily assistance. As a member of the committee, I think that this has been adequately assessed in the social reform process, and I remember that, on the spring side, through lobby organisations, the position of different linguistic minorities, such as Sámi or sign-language speakers, was strongly highlighted. In the case of Sámi speakers in particular, this applies centrally to one province and, for sign-language speakers, to the whole of Finland. I think that this is sufficiently taken into account in the reform and, if you wish, I will be happy to provide further information on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u346	Next question, Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u347	Mr President! I have met a lot of citizens during the summer, and many older people have approached and asked what has happened when the desire to live is enough to hold a pension. This is no wonder, because inequality has increased and people’s livelihood has been hampered by the policy of the Sipilä government. For example, the cuts in medical fees and the 30% increase in health care charges particularly affect older people. Helsingin Sanomat reported this week that 350,000 health care fees have gone into enforcement and that the number has increased dramatically a year. According to the Ministry of Finance, income differentials have also increased. With the budget now under discussion, the rich will receive up to EUR 400 more a year, once the low-income ones are taken away again. This isn't right. Mr Mattila, do you think this is right? Why does the budget give up to EUR 400 to the wealthy when the poorest national pensioners are taken away?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u348	Representative Nurminen, I would like to remind you of the word in this Chamber. — Minister Mattila responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u349	I'll answer for myself. I am, of course, committed to the programme of this government, and it has been my job to bring that presentation to the table, which is at present, and is linked to the balancing of public finances. However, I would like to point out that this fork, which you have just presented, is on average taken from it and does not apply to all those affected by this freezing here. But is that right? I think it is right that everyone must have the right to basic income, medicine, food, home, and look at the whole thing that people do in everyday life. And yes, the government has also brought increases in guarantees and minimum daily allowances, among other things, in this mid-term debate, and we are also on the way to Juho Saare, the Prime Minister's Working Group on Inequality. This is a matter for the whole government — to take care of the economy, public spending, but also to create growth and jobs in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u350	Mr President! As you know, Minister Mattila, this withdrawal of the guarantee pension applies only to a small proportion of pensioners. [Heckling] We, as Social Democrats, want to improve the livelihood of all people with low and middle results. We have already called on the government to take measures to improve the livelihoods of older women and those receiving a small pension. This means that the rise in cost of living is taken into account, the taxation of occupational pensions is corrected and the level of national pensions is improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u351	Mr President! I understand that, too, I have already replied that, of course, the government as a whole sees the country's economy as a whole, its public finances, which are also services. A social welfare reform is under way, with the aim of securing services for older people, but of course for people of all ages as well. Of course, in the opposition, you have the opportunity to make your own shadow budget. Thank you for doing so. The government is doing its own programme, and I continue to claim that this will take care of the security networks of society. But let us not forget the conversation you described, what is going on in the numbs and squares. I go there, too. I am quite happy to listen — certainly as much as you are — to the elderly, of all ages, and these concerns are being brought to the joint negotiating tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u352	Madam President! In the budget debate this week, it has been said many times that the fact that we have been investigated shows that income differentials in our country are on the increase. These increases in income differentials are also the result of government decisions which you are already cutting off from the most vulnerable people. This is also the everyday experience of thousands and thousands of Finns. We cannot belittle the fact that many people have to wonder whether to go to the doctor or to the grocery store, and this is a big issue for society, too, because we know that it is not in the interests of society, for example, to have to go to the doctor for longer periods, to have more trouble and to have more expensive treatment. This equation is also costly for society. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask: when you send so many signals to the municipal court, could you take as one thing that you should instruct the municipalities that they should also not recover these costs, which are quite unreasonable to some people and in fact only fatten up the collection agencies' accounts?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u353	Mr President! Reference has been made here to this week's Helsingin Sanomat article and to this large amount of enforcement fees, which are made up of the use of public services by people. I, too, found that amount and amount startling, and that is part of the phenomenon of poverty. Those statistics do not quite clearly open the question of how many people are involved. We can only guess that there may be groups of people who have accumulated a great deal of these contributions, perhaps multiple diseases, or one of the reasons is, of course, that when a person gets sick, they come in many ways, both from medicines and from hospital days. As far as the signal is concerned, as Mrs Huovinen said, you are quite right. According to Article 11 of our Consumer Fees Act, it is possible for a municipality to decide not to collect on the income and financial position of a person on the basis of the fees which would otherwise be charged to it. In fact, the municipality is obliged to do that,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u354	Mr President! The economy is growing and the employment situation has improved slightly. Many things go for the better, but pensioners with limited means are still struggling. The rise in average pensions has been mentioned, but the cold fact is that 75% of pensioners will never reach the average pension. A total of 337,000 pensioners receive less than EUR 1000 per month, many much less. Citizens on national pensions, guaranteed pensions and low retirement pensions often face major difficulties in paying for high housing costs, expensive medicines and other necessities of life. The government must offer the low-income pensioners who are struggling with their economy concrete measures, and I would like to ask the minister concerned: do you have anything to suggest other than an increase in the guarantee pension of EUR 15?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u355	Mr President! I understand that I have already answered this once. The guarantee pension has just been increased because it is one of the smallest pensions. Of course, it is very unfortunate that small self-employed pensions are still very low and that the occupational pension system will only be corrected with time. I would like to add that, in principle, the cap on medicinal products has fallen now during this term of government. We still have a support system for housing support, livelihoods, including medicines, and, as we have heard here, this bill on customer fees also ensures that the payment can be withheld for lack of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u356	Mr President! It is very important that, in the budget debate, the government of the country has carefully considered what we could do for the benefit of people living on small pension income in a country that has turned 100 years old, and it is good that the guarantee pension was increased. That alone is not enough: it is a good thing that the basic part of the care allowance is increased to EUR 70 and 50 cents per month. It is an important support for pensioners who are long-term ill or disabled. This increase in care allowance was very important. But the Parliament Group of the Coalition Party hopes that the bill on the payment of home care will be brought to Parliament as soon as possible. After all, we have legislation on long-term care, but for those who use home services, the payments are very unequal and people are in a very difficult situation. So I ask Minister Saarikko: when will we get that law? It was supposed to come during Minister Huovinen's time with the Old People's Services Act, but it's neither visible nor audible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u359	Mr President! Let me start with that timetable: the issue is essential and is also central to the social reform, i.e. the services that we are now trying to make better for people — and we are going to do so. Now we are talking about the fact that we can continue to ensure, within the framework of common funds, that people’s own contribution — the big pot that amounts to some 1.4 billion shared funds from people in the form of customer fees — does not have to grow, even though we certainly have an ageing population to demand more services. This legislation on customer fees is in preparation at the Ministry, it has been for a long time. And I quite agree that it is a very complicated matter. I asked for clarification and asked if someone could briefly describe what is a Finnish customer payment policy in the care of the elderly. There is no simple answer. Local government practices and criteria and payment system combined with housing and income support are a very complex issue. And yes, I will see to it that legislation:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u361	Mr President! We all know how many ways the loss of credit information complicates people’s lives. It is even more unfair if the credit information has gone because of the fact that the fall of hundreds of euros into the home due to sudden illness cannot be managed from small incomes. The amount of social and health care charges that have gone into enforcement has increased dramatically, and the government cannot shirk its responsibility here simply by appealing to the municipalities for the possibility of not charging the customer fees, when the researcher feels that the central reason has come from the government’s side a strong message to collect customer fees — both through customer fees increases and through the strong incentive of the municipalities to collect customer fees. Would it not now be a place for the government to change its policy on this matter, so that the poor in Finland can afford to suffer again?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u362	It is quite true, Mr President, that, during this parliamentary term, customer charges have been increased under the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u367	Madam President! These customer fees that have gone into enforcement show the worst language in which a large number of people live in distress, poverty and low income. In this situation, the government is often underlining, and now, too, it has strongly emphasised that it is capable of reducing government debt. However, it must be borne in mind that according to the central government budget book, households’ debt ratio is 126% relative to households’ disposable income — 126% is the debt ratio. This is not what the government seems to be concerned about, and this indebtedness of households, both poor households and probably middle-income households, is a real problem. This debt is also ahead of us and is more concrete than public debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u368	Mr President! The problem of debt is on the increase, it is known, and it does not help to focus attention solely on the indebtedness of public sector actors, but on the indebtedness of households and, of course, the indebtedness of the corporate sector must be constantly taken into account. The EU is also paying more and more attention to this. Payment and payment methods are also constantly changing, more and more so that citizens, especially from the younger head, do not necessarily see how much money goes into certain things. At the same time, the granting of consumer credit is becoming more widespread and activities are becoming increasingly cross-border in financial markets. This is what we are now looking for answers on the government's front. We have extensive investigations in the Ministry of Justice to promote a positive credit register, better regulation of quick credit, and also to deal with the postponement months of the various portions of protection relating to enforcement. So the problem is complex and very difficult, but there are ways to find it at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u369	Mr President! Thousands of low - income family carers do valuable work and care for their loved ones at home, and so do the government a great deal of good. In-house care is paid a small family care premium. I would like to ask the Minister: could the allowance for informal care be made duty-free so that financial concerns do not overburden the carer? When there is already a great deal of concern about being cared for in family care that he remains healthy and that he can be treated as well as possible, then the financial problems would no longer weigh.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u370	Mr President! There are two ways to approach informal care and support it, which is extremely important: just as in the questioner's question, from the point of view of its financial livelihood, or from the point of view of the social status and the ability and services of the carer. In order to improve the status of family carers, this government chose, above all, this latter method, purely because the feedback from the family carers was directed above all to the need for training, training, peer support, days off and — most importantly — to provide adequate quality and safe substitute care for those who are given care for their valuable and deserved holidays. Another important part of these payments and income is, of course, the payment of informal care support. Of course, I think it is justified that our long-term objective must be to equalise payments. Now it's up to the municipalities to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u371	Mr President! Freezes of the National Pensions Index, increases in service charges, increases in medical provisions, cuts in health insurance allowances, increases in energy taxes, increases in Kela's own contribution to travel costs and an increase in property tax, which is reflected in housing costs, regardless of whether you live in a owner-occupied dwelling or rent — quite a lump sum. According to the Central Union of Pensioners, the increase in the guaranteed pension affects some 40,000 over 65-year-olds. On behalf of these 40,000, you must rejoice, but in the same breath you will cut 600,000 people's national pensions, you will cut 240 euros for these people at the same time as the government budget will add up to 400 euros to the good people. Give some human answer to people as to whether you think this is fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u372	Mr President! Our central task is to ensure that Finland is a welfare society and that the important, equal services of the welfare society play. Why the government has had to make cuts in different places during its early term, painful cuts, has been due to the fact that we are in debt so much, and we are in debt because our economic development has been so poor. But now we have brought about this change, which means that the economy is finally growing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u373	Mr President! We have discussed next year's budget and raised critical voices, which is, of course, the legitimate role of the opposition, but it seems to be forgotten that, in my opinion, if possible, work is the best social protection. What has been done for it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u374	Madam President! The government has taken a number of measures and will continue to take measures to improve employment. Now, of course, this is probably a matter which was here in the first place, but the point is that, once we get more employment, we will have more tax revenue, and when we get tax revenue, we will have the opportunity to deal with those low-income people better than we do at the moment. That is what I think is at stake, and that is probably the point that Mrs Elok was seeking here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u375	Madam President! Indeed, when the economy grows, those involved in working life will enjoy the fruits of economic growth. But helping people who depend on basic benefits needs political decisions. What has this government done? This government has frozen the indices by which these basic benefits could rise. Now that the economy is in such a situation, I would like to ask Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo: would you now be prepared to consider that the index freeze, which will be in force until 2019, could be dismantled so that the people of these benefits — these very national pensions, which have been frozen, all these basic benefits, sickness allowances that have been frozen — can also enjoy this fruit of economic growth?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u377	Madam President! The fact that we are actually working to balance public finances is the only way to secure services that are important to people and also those important transfers, both for pensioners and for those on low incomes. Part of this government's economic programme is that we have made a difficult savings package and we must stick to it. But now that we had room for manoeuvre within the framework, its tight budgetary framework, we are taking specific action on those groups of people, people we consider to be the most vulnerable: guaranteed pensioners, young unemployed as a particular priority. There are many things we are trying to do to help the most vulnerable. But we need those jobs and those people who are employed, so that we have tax resources, as Minister Lindström wisely described here. We need those tax resources so that we can continue to take care of transfers, pensions and services. That's what we do. But it's what we do. It's what we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u378	Mr President! Representative Guzenina listed a long list of cuts that have been applied to the disadvantaged in this society. He pointed out that it takes place around a reduction of EUR 240 per year for full national pension recipients. At the same time, income transfers are made to the rich through taxation, with an additional EUR 400 per year. That question was for you, Minister Orpo: do you think this is fair? Answer this question!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u379	Mr President! I think it is fair that we work for as many Finns as possible to get to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u382	Mr President! Over the course of this week, we have had many debates in this Chamber about the increase in inequality and the policy of increasing government income disparities, and time and again we have heard how the only solution for government to increase inequality is to raise people from unemployment to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u385	Mr President! Choices have to be made. The choice of government is that we provide services — good, high-quality services — which are the best and most important protection for a poor and low-income person. They are the foundations of a welfare society — good, equal services — and for us to be able to cope with them, we need a high employment rate. Welfare only grows from work and enterprise, and that is a key objective. As regards this further increase in income differentials, income differentials have not increased significantly today. The effect is very small. In this draft budget, the most important thing that increases income differentials is the increase in tobacco tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u388	Jag vill passa på att tacka minister Häkkänen för ett bra svar när det gäller utmaningen med överskuldsättning. Redan ungefär 400000 finländare har betalningsstörningar, och åtminstone med min rättsupfattning kan jag inte förstå att de rai störningarna kan hemäga kvar fast man har betaalat skulden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u389	Mr President! This is an excellent question, because this is also very much related to the big picture of risk-taking and potential failure, including on the path to entrepreneurship. We are now looking within the government, and in the Ministry of Justice in particular, at this indebtedness in a very broad sense: the potential problem of over-indebtedness, its prevention and after-care, and also at financial advice at the stage where we are in a balance-of-language position with regard to the direction in which our own economy starts. This requires a wide range of mechanisms, pre-monitoring, responsible financial market players, but then also those ex-post measures, including the possibility that a person who is a self-employed person can have a new opportunity in a certain way in the event of bankruptcy. Now we are looking at these widely, and I promise that we will also look at this aspect of the default marking as to whether there is anything to be corrected there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u390	Mr President! The original question was about how poor Finnish people are in debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u391	Mr President! That's an excellent question. This regulation on debt arrangements and bankruptcy is now being carefully examined and analysed during the autumn at the Ministry, and then, in the early part of the year, decisions will be taken more broadly in these indebtedness-related entities, so that all these regulatory entities are now considered to be as sensible as possible. We now need to be careful not to promise anything yet, whether personal bankruptcy will be possible for the entrepreneur and relief from debts, because there will then also be problems with the fact that there is a very bank-driven corporate finance market in Finland and that banks will then be able to take a very critical view of the debt of new, start-ups if they are too easily able to relieve themselves of personal debts. It can also form a bottleneck for entrepreneurship in the second place. So you need to carefully study and analyse this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u392	Mr President! This discussion started with the status of the elderly. Yes, it is that our society's civilization tells us how we treat those who have built this country, how we treat them every day in these decisions that we make here — how we treat those who have built this country. In the opinion of the SDP, growth belongs to everyone, including pensioners and especially low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u395	Mr President! Certainly an overall assessment will have to be made, and you will certainly have read these budget laws as well. Finally, it says that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also be requested. We have to take care — and I am defending Mr Orpo in it — of services, of course, which are part of the task of coping with or correcting an elderly person or anyone else's daily lives. And yes, as a minister of this government, I am also committed to that government programme and the balancing of public finances, and these laws are here and now. As far as property tax and total tax rates are concerned, the Minister of Finance will certainly be responsible for this. But we have to take care of the existing service system, the security networks, that we have the pensions, we have housing allowance and other subsidies, that we have the basis from which we also distribute to those who are not working or who are on small pensions. The Minister of Finance has also made a good point here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u396	Mr President! First of all, once again on this issue of the cut-off for holiday money, when time and again you bring out this incorrect information. The government didn't make a deal. Labour market organisations agreed on the means to improve competitiveness and were supported by the SDP. Among other things, Antti Rinne, as chairman, has said afterwards that it was a mistake to support it. I think it's the best proof that you agreed. If you are not satisfied, ask STTK and SAK, among other things, why they ended up with these holiday money cuts. Among other things, we would have had a general extension of working time. But here, Mr Lindtman, you are absolutely right that we must look after the people who have built this country. As a theme and in honour of the 100-year-old country, the Government's amending budget has already today decided that an additional EUR 11.6 million will be proposed for the rehabilitation of veterans and services to be taken home in order to enable all veterans to access rehabilitation and services. This is an example of how we constantly make big decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u397	Mr President! I have to say that there are a lot of low-income people in municipal workers and state workers, whose only income relief is that they receive holiday money once a year, and then they can:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u398	Mr President! I, too, find it very regrettable that, in the final decision, holiday money was cut off and from people and staff to whom it is very important. But I still say that it was an agreement between the social partners. I know the social partners and I know that you know even better: If they hadn't accepted this, they wouldn't have. For us, for the government, it would have been the best option, for example, to extend working time in general to 20 minutes per day, which would have had the same effect on competitiveness, and this is absolutely essential. [Right :We had a level playing field! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u399	Mr President! That's where I was thinking, when we started talking about pensions, I wonder what that pensioner over there is thinking: the kiky deal about it, giggle this. Yesterday we talked about Mickey Mouse's barkboats and watermelons. We should talk about how that pensioner in everyday life could handle it. We had a citizens' initiative to restore the pension index, and that debate included the fact that I and Mr Huhtasaari met with a lawyer from Tela, with whom we discussed whether there has ever been an assessment, for example, of a certain amount of the index being returned to the low and middle income income categories, and he said that it has actually never been calculated. That's what we were talking about in this room. Is there any way we could go out and sort this out? It is always argued that pension funds are not enough if they are returned to all income categories, but progressiveness is always possible at all times. Could we at least look into it because we're looking for tools now? I don't think this kiky deal is going to be of any use to that little pensioner, who's fit and what.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u400	Do you have a voicemail? — Minister Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u401	Mr President! Of course, the Minister for Finance is responsible for this whole of central government finances. It was a good debate, which has taken place, thanks to the representative for the good question. If we find ways to improve the situation for pensioners where those pain spots are identified, and if such a debate has not taken place, then I personally have no objection. This is something that the representative can do, even if it is an initiative for discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u404	Mr President! Once again, we must return to the basic point that the ability of pensions to pay today and in the future depends on what our employment rate is. The fact that the employment rate is sufficiently high — the government’s objective is 72 — for the next decade we will need 75 jobs — guarantees that we will be able to deliver the pension promise that has been made in order for our pension system to last, but at the same time we will be able to afford to finance services that are important to us all. Employment rates and a good employment policy are the best pension policy we can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u405	Next question, Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u406	Madam President! Drug use is a problem that affects the whole of Finland. The use and transmission of drugs is a matter of serious mild temperaments: gangbanging, violence, prostitution, trafficking in human beings and this type of thing. According to press reports, in some localities, as many as 11-year-olds have found themselves in a situation where they either use or supply drugs. Has there been a fundamental change in the drug situation? Is there a trend that brings such alarming news? Are the resources of local authorities, the social services and the police, enough to resolve these issues, or do we need wider shoulders? This is a question I would like to ask at least to Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u407	Mr President! I am responsible for substance abuse policy and, above all, for drug-related treatment. Of course, it is a matter of priority that we in society largely support educational work, through third-sector actors, especially for children and young people, on the dangers of various types of substance abuse, of which, of course, drugs as illegal are certainly attractive in many ways, and there are many phenomena that we can only speculate on and which we do not even recognise. For my part, of course, I am also responsible for the substance abuse treatment system: that we have sufficient facilities available when we can talk about the situation of serious dependence. But I myself strongly emphasise that aspect of prevention and the social support we offer to tell children and young people that life without substance in drugs is an important and important choice. Otherwise, as far as the activities of the authorities and the adequacy of the authorities are concerned, I will pass the question on to Minister Risiko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u408	Nevertheless, I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u409	Mr President! Often the problems of substance abuse and mental health go hand in hand, and if we do not have adequate mental health services, then it will be very difficult to prevent or treat these problems of substance abuse. Lately, I have received a lot of concerns about what the state of rehabilitation in Kela will be after the social welfare reform. In this regard, I would have asked the government and the ministers: do you have anything to tell the public about whether Kela's rehabilitation will continue on an equal footing throughout the country even after you have brought the social welfare bill into the house and when it has been laid down?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u410	Mr President! In the near future, hopefully in the coming weeks, together with Minister Mattila, we will receive a report from the rehabilitation committee, a committee that has worked for a long time and also includes parliamentary members, i.e. their views on how the Finnish rehabilitation system will be organised — whether it is the rehabilitation of a paralyzed person or the rehabilitation of a mental patient, the rehabilitation of a child, an adult or an elderly person — in Finland. Personally, I think it is very important that we conclude that rehabilitation becomes a closer part of the everyday care chain, that it is not a secondary or a separate island, but an as valuable part as surgery, which we often discuss in relation to physical injuries. As far as mental health rehabilitation is concerned, I personally see that psychotherapy, in particular, plays a key role in this, and I hope that the Committee will also make a proposal in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u411	Mr President! The debate on drugs is an important debate and, unfortunately, every week we read on the news, on the press, where there are new cannabis farms and so on. Personally, I consider drugs to be very dangerous substances and I take them negatively. I would now like to ask the relevant minister of the government how the government views the legalisation of cannabis in Finland, because there is an enormous amount of public debate, including that of politicians, and it has been suggested in some circles that it should be legalised. What is the government's position on the legalisation of cannabis?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u412	Mr President! The government itself has not discussed this any further. I believe that the line is quite clear that this is very negative, not only because it is a clear signal effect, but also because drugs are not part of a healthy, legal and organised society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u415	We have one more question to ask. Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u416	President! After a long time of waiting, the proposal to allow a second experiment on the voluntary nature of the Finnish language will finally be brought to Parliament. This is a historic moment for the Blue Parliamentary Group and the first step towards giving up the compulsory learning of Swedish. We want to ensure that the experiment is carried out properly. As agreed with other government partners, language trials will be secured through key project funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-21-ps-91.u417	Mr President! This experiment is part of the Government Programme, and the Government proposal has now been submitted to Parliament and also to the Constitutional Committee for evaluation. From the outset, this debate has started at the initiative of the municipalities in the past, which means that municipalities have approached that they might be interested in such an experiment. Now, even in this bill, the structure is such that the municipalities themselves can apply if they are interested in this experiment, and so participation is not binding on anyone. When this is the case and there has been initiative, I assume, of course, that the municipalities will also have a desire to finance the experiment. In addition, the Ministry is prepared to finance some aspects of the experiment. However, I would like to point out that very large sums of money are not being discussed here as a whole, because the pilot group is limited: the opportunity is offered to a maximum of 2,200 pupils.
