ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u2	Mr President! This overall reform and clarification is very important and [Fresh—The President-in-Office] What amazes me now is that it has been thought that the directive would be put into effect on 21 May 2017, and yet, when all is still going on, it is likely that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u3	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u4	Madam President! The Public Sector Pensions Act came into force from the beginning of this year. According to the Act, retirement will be delayed from the beginning of 2018 by three months each year until 2025. This will achieve a two-year delay in retirement over eight years. Increasing the retirement age by two years as part of the pension reform in the public sector was not the will or aim of the defence administration, which makes it difficult to build up a professional reserve, but under these circumstances these must go. The Public Sector Pensions Act determines when an official and an employee will be entitled to a pension. On the other hand, the age of resignation determines the date on which an official or employee must resign from his service. With regard to the civil servants and employees of the Defence Forces, the withdrawal age is laid down in the Defence Forces Act, which is therefore proposed to be amended in the Government proposal currently in the referral debate. Employment relationship between an official and an employee The Defence Forces will end at the latest when the retirement age is reached. Pension age is laid down in the Pensions Act of the Public Sectors and in the Law on Defence Forces. The provisions of these two laws must be uniform. If the resignations of the Defence Forces’ civil servants and employees were not changed to reflect the late retirement age of the Public Sector Pensions Act, then the service relationship between the Defence Forces’ civil servants and employees would end before reaching retirement age and would not result in the right to an old-age pension. In practice, this reform is technical and changes the retirement age in line with the objectives of the pension reform. The increase in the number of separation pigs applies equally to all personnel groups from the General to the Sergeant and from the Armsor to the installer. All divorces are increased by three months a year in eight years. Madam President! Finally, as a request from the Ministry of Defence, I would like to suggest that the Government's proposal will be discussed during the spring session. This will enable the Defence Forces personnel to ensure a new retirement age at a sufficiently early stage. This is particularly important for those who reach retirement and retirement age at the beginning of 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u5	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Defence Forces Act. According to the proposal, the retirement age provisions of the Defence Forces' posts would be amended to reflect the delay in retirement provided for in the Pensions Act of the Public Sectors. In its letter to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance considered it important that the pension reform should apply equally to all categories of staff employed by the State, without excluding any group from the change. The implementation of equality requires changes to previous retirement age provisions. The latest Public Pensions Act came into force at the beginning of this year. According to the Act, the retirement period will be extended from 2018 by three months per year until a two-year extension has been achieved in 2025. In that sense, this bill is a continuum and a complement to the law. According to the proposal, the provision on the resignation of the Defence Forces Act should be amended accordingly to the reform. According to the motion, the resignations of the military military posts would be increased in a similar way by up to 2 years. Of course, this increase is justified by the fact that otherwise the lowest retirement age will be higher than the current retirement age, without the right to an old-age pension. For a similar reason, resignations for those serving a pilot’s training role should also be raised. Just as a reminder that the senior military posts of the Defence Forces have a retirement age higher than that of other military posts, between 60 and 63 years. Other military posts have a retirement age of 55 years. Divorcers may feel low, but they are not. For me, it is more important that a person retires young and healthy than old and broken. Mr President! In the past, I did not consider this pension reform to be sensible for soldiers, and I am still very critical of this proposal. I consider the pension reform for soldiers to be poor for Finland's defence capability and also for the economy. The previous age of resignation was the most effective and cost-effective way of maintaining a credible defence system. Now that the system is being changed, we also need to review the arguments of the defence system. In the previous model, when the soldier retired, he was assigned a position in the operational leadership of the wartime. These tasks shall be those which cannot be performed in any other way than by the professional reserve. Knowledge of these tasks does not come in the moment, but through years of experience, and the replacement of professional soldiers is very challenging. When the retirement age of soldiers was increased by two years in line with the pension reform, it is estimated that some six hundred new posts should be created. It will cost some EUR 40 million each year. I do not think we can afford this, especially now that everything should be saved. In my opinion, the pension reform has not taken sufficient account of the remarks made by employers and military organisations that raising the retirement age is undermining Finland's defence capability. I hope I'm completely wrong about that. I would like to hear more about this reform from the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u6	Madam President! The Defence Forces are in the process of major reforms under the leadership of Minister Niinistö. There is a desire to respond better to new threats and, among other things, to speed up the functioning of the reserve army in various crisis situations. In time, the Committee on Defence on this issue of retirement age issued a very critical opinion, an opinion that understands the needs of defence, which was completely ignored in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. At the time, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not actually hear at all the representatives of the employers of the defence administration and completely disregarded the unanimous opinion of our committee, which understood this whole defence solution. Mr Niinistö, you said that this was not the objective of the Defence Forces, and we all know in this Chamber that this is for you too, one might say, an almost repulsive proposal to bring this to the table, but we must live with it now, and there is certainly some solution to the problem of professional reserves. In other words, would you be able to open up a little, Minister, how this necessary amount of professional reserves will be achieved in the future, or is it just this model, as Mr Kulmala has suggested, what can be done? So where are we on the subject at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u7	Madam President! Indeed, the Committee on Defence unanimously took a position on this issue earlier and was very critical of the increase in the retirement age of soldiers, precisely for these reasons, what has been heard about the above speeches and what the Minister himself said. It has also become clear that the actual will of the defence administration has not been this proposal. When professional soldiers move into the reserve, they will have a great deal of benefits there. They have the professional skills required to lead the wartime forces in the reserve. Of course, when you go beyond a certain age, physical qualities are also beginning to come up against the fact that there can be no reserve there for very long. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is now planned that the upper age limit for the reserve will also be raised by some time frame with this draft law in the same proportion, or whether the solution will be to increase the tasks of war which Mr Kulmala would add to the costs. Is it therefore a way of raising the upper age of the reserve or increasing the number of allowances or staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u8	Mr President! Our defence performance is based on a large reserve, and this has been identified as the right solution year after year. We can be glad that Finland did not go down Sweden's path to abolish universal military service and did not change the basic tasks of defence, which are primarily the defence of its own country. Sweden chose another route and now has to reverse. Part of this functioning concept of defence of the entire country is not only general military service but also a large reserve with a trained army. Unquestionably, this proposal, which is now under discussion, is problematic in terms of the capacity of the reserve. These earlier retirement ages have contributed to the availability of a specially trained army of officers in the reserve, which may have been available at very short notice and which is well up to the task in this respect. I am surprised that the government will bring a proposal in this form when it will undoubtedly have negative effects on our defence capability. I would have liked this issue to have been considered also in terms of defence capability and proposals to be made on how far the mobilisation of the reserve will be the basis for our defence in the future. This proposal is therefore undeniably disappointing and does not take sufficient account of the staff of the Defence Forces, nor of the considerations of preparedness. I hope that the Minister will find out how this has come about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u9	Madam President! This is where colleagues have spoken well, and as a former professional soldier, I share many of the concerns that have now been expressed on the basis of this proposal. Of course, the direction is clear: in this country, retirement age is being increased. But I would have liked to ask the Minister quickly: Now that the age of the resignation of professional soldiers is raised, how have the Defence Forces prepared themselves to maintain their field eligibility to the end? Is there some way we're going to increase education? Is there some way in which monitoring systems are being developed so that the army in office is really capable of performing all its tasks? I would also have asked how to proceed if the physical characteristics of these people were to deteriorate in such a way that they were no longer necessarily able to perform these heavy and demanding physical tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u10	Madam President! The Finnish model for defending its own country is based on general military duty, extensive trained reserves and the capability of the reserve. As the committee's colleagues in the Committee on Defence have pointed out, there is a great deal of consensus on this issue, on the draft law. I am a little surprised at this point that, as the Minister said, this proposal did not come in accordance with the wishes of the defence administration. But I would like to ask the Minister when he is here: why does this proposal come here, because this great task of defence is not carried out by any other administrative sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u11	Madam President! Finland's defence is managed on the basis of the principle of universal military service, and it is an integral part of a strong reserve that is being trained, and then an adequate, credible defence capability, which means that we have the necessary tools to defend the country and, above all, that the integrity of the country is safeguarded both on land, at sea and in the air. With regard to this bill, which the government has brought to Parliament in order to amend the Defence Forces Act, I hope that, at the time of the committee's deliberations, there will be a reasonable amount of good input from this issue in order to bring this issue of the pension problem into some form of good form. I understand that an optimal solution can hardly be found, but I hope, with the strong involvement of the committee and the Minister for Defence, that this matter will be brought to a decent end. The reserve, which works by name, requires that there are also good supervisors and team leaders, team leaders and company managers, and so on, if the situation so requires. It is vitally important that the management works well. I hope that the committee will do a good job here and will be able to improve this proposal even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u12	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here, and many colleagues are very concerned about this. Mr Kärnä also raised the issue of being a professional soldier. I was myself in the 1990s when the last major, bigger pension reform was carried out, and in one night I also had five more years, so that I understand very well the way these trade unions are taking this issue as well and have been heard. But I, too, will continue to ask the minister how, then, in the everyday life of a professional soldier now that this age is to be raised, it will indeed be certain — the same concern as the Kärnä — that they will also be able to meet their requirements for field eligibility. Will they be significantly reduced there in the last fifth, fourth quarter of the year, or how will this be done to keep the tasks meaningful for every professional soldier so that there will be no further pressure to move on to lighter tasks?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u13	Before the Minister, Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u14	Madam President! I may be a slightly different voice in this rather unanimous debate, but in my opinion, when it comes to what the trade unions think, in this case the officers' organisations, nor was the Construction Union in favour of raising the retirement age of the concrete bracers, nor did the metalmen in favour of raising the retirement age of the metalmen, the shipbuilders. Pension ages have been raised and raised in part contrary to the wishes of trade unions and employees and employees. I do not understand why the retirement age of a concrete cuffer or someone else who does a mental or physical hard work is being increased, but then the retirement age of the officers should not be interfered with. I believe that there should be some consistency and consistency between the different occupational groups in these pension solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u15	Minister Niinistö, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u16	Madam President! Of course, the government proposal could have been better, but we are in the government and we go on majority terms. In general, it is great that Parliament is concerned about the sustainability of the Finnish defence solution. Defence is a common cause. I fully agree with Mr Kulmala and many other honourable Members that the increase in the professional reserve will be more challenging in the future than in the past. However, as Mr Kulmala has said, we cannot increase the costs. There were more representatives — representatives of Heinonen, Savola, Heinäluoma, Kärnä, Hoskonen, Hakanen at least — who also expressed their concern and asked about this matter. I would say that in the Committee on Defence we need to look at this issue in depth at how the professional reserve will be established effectively in the future. There are different ways, some of them already speculated, not quite as good as they used to be, and they will be communicated to the members of the Committee on Defence so that you can form your opinion. At this stage I have to say that preparations are still in progress, so it is better that I do not go into detail to open them up, but indeed, in the course of the committee's deliberations, the defence administration will of course come to the committee to provide further information. Finally, the Finnish defence solution is certainly not under threat as a result of this Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u17	Mr President! I share Mr Uotila's view that, for example, concrete bracers are a professional group where it is difficult to see that at 65 years of age people would be able to work, not to mention the months and years to come. We have professions that are very consuming and specifically physical. To this end, the possibility of a deviation from the general pension legislation, i.e. the retirement of those who are long-term and hard-working on the basis of specific factors, is possible at an earlier stage. But this discussion of officers, this pensionable age related to the regular staff, is not primarily a matter of working hours; it is a matter of the functioning and readiness of the defence of the country. I do not think that we are inviting concrete bracers from retirement to stand-by at the age of 65, but this is an important task for officers. In order to make the whole reserve work, it must have trained management, and the purpose of that, of course, has been to take advantage of the possibility of a lower retirement age from the reserve to carry out demanding reserve tasks. And when this reserve is a speciality of ours — that is the very strong feature of our concept, that we are able to mobilise quickly qualified, skilled people, and in that central role we have previously had, trained, recently left by the army, who have been able to take on these leadership tasks — it must be recognised as a matter of national defence. The fact that we have defence aspects does not mean that it removes the problems of, for example, the construction of concrete cuffs at work, does so or so on this issue of defence. In any case, I do not think that the wrong idea of equality or envy should be the same for everyone, but that the starting point is that we must look at the overall assessment. These defence issues relating to the use of the reserve also need to be assessed honestly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u18	Madam President! Minister, you said in some way that the committee must look for ways to resolve the occupational reserve in the future. If I heard correctly, this interpretation came from this line anyway. Isn't it more the Ministry's business to find a solution? I thought I noticed that the minister was a little squeamish in his defence of the government's proposal, in which even the person who signed it seems to be very difficult to stand, just as most of the other members of the government, including the members of parliament, seemed to have. We have 95 percent of our military capabilities through the reserve, and its main element is our professional reserve, that is, the military, officers and sub-commanders who, when entering the reserve, are key reserve leaders. What, then, does the minister now expect from the committee? In what way and to what extent can the committee bring forward sharper proposals, possibly even a common wreck, to bring down this issue if the committee does not find the new solutions that are needed to ensure this major task of defence and training?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u19	Madam President! Not an officer, but an armored man. I must say that the debate on retirement age in this context is somewhat different from anything else. I do understand Mr Uotila's point of view very well, but I would have liked to see the fire officer, Mr Jalonen, have also taken a stand on what really is the survival of the staff in physical work, that is, what it really means when we do physical work and we are at the point where we have to save others. Here I see that the debate on raising the retirement age is not, however, for anyone. While in active service, there will be longer active service in which capacity to lead troops will be better than when they are taken out of the reserve. In that sense, this is a bit of a multigenerational debate, that on the one hand there is concern, and on the other hand there is a desire to reject it. I understand the concern of the trade unions that this is, in a way, going into the current debate on retirement age, but, on the one hand, on the defence of the country, I would see that people who are longer in active service are certainly more skilled and increasingly ready for national defence tasks. And in that sense, there should be no great contradiction, whether it be concrete cuffs or officers — not just that, of course, to think that everyone should have the same. There are always interests to build the security of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u20	Madam President! In this debate on the left side of the Chamber, it has now been suggested that this is a government invention of this change, which has actually been discussed in Parliament some time ago, and now this change is being made. I would now like to ask Minister Niinistö to confirm this. I myself would recall that this matter was agreed in autumn 2014 as part of an employment pension solution between SAK, STTK, Confederation of Finnish Industries and Municipal Employers, and Akava was the only one who left it. So I would now like to make sure that at least the correct picture remains in the Minutes: was this part of the pension solution agreed by the social partners or was this a purely government invention? However, this is from 2014.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u21	Mr President! It is not up to the social partners to assess the size of military defence and reserve, which is outside their remit. That is a task for the responsible government in question and, of course, ultimately for Parliament. Once agreed on a general increase in the retirement age in the labour market, it does not take a position on whether there are specific factors for some groups to assess differently. Or, if such a decision is made, such as for officers to raise retirement age, must it lead to an increase in the number of officers? Of course, the need for a reserve can also be influenced in such a way that if we increase the number of officers, a smaller number of people trained in the reserve will suffice. In other words, these matters of national defence are in all cases the responsibility of politicians; at least they cannot be outsourced to corporations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u23	Madam President! Of course, I admit that I personally see this issue of defence — the will to defend the country, the ability to defend the country — as important as possible, but this is also necessarily a question of endurance when the retirement age is raised. For my part, I was thinking that if I had continued with the career that I started in 90 C.E., I would retire this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u24	Mr President! That's where I got to thinking about the officers. When you look at the number of officers in the labour market after retirement, you often wonder that it is good to be able to work even when you are retired. I don't think there's anything special about this. When you think about a cuffer or a metalman or something, yes, there is a flaw in our pension system. These so-called heavy-duty jobs and those professions — they are mentally heavy and they are physically heavy — should be dealt with differently and given lower retirement ages and thus move forward. In my opinion, this kind of lifting of officers alone is quite contrary to all equal work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u25	Madam President! Of course, as several colleagues have said here, this is primarily a matter of national defence, but in the alternative, as Mr Hakanen pointed out, it is also a question of coping with it. At least I'm thinking that if a 60-year-old person in that heavy guerrilla training position sleeps with a team of conscripts on a separate slab of crackfires, it may be pretty hard for a person of this age to cope with such tasks even physiologically. Mr Heinäluoma made a good point in this regard, and of course I myself would wonder whether it might sometimes be a good idea for the social partners, as responsible social actors, to look at these solutions a little more broadly, the impact they can have on national defence capacity. Although, of course, that decision is not outsourced anywhere, I am sure that the social partners should also consider such matters when decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u27	Before the minister still representatives of Kääriäinen and Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u28	Mr President! As has already been pointed out here, this solution is the result of the previous large pension decision and savings, as the Minister has just said. Of course, this will also have an impact within the Defence Forces on how to adapt to this decision. It is worth thinking very carefully about this adaptation, because more and more of the different issues of the Defence Forces will come up against this issue of endurance. It is constantly rising to the surface due to the fact that more tasks are becoming more and more on the shoulders. The number of senior staff of the Defence Forces has fallen significantly over the past 10 years — one quarter has gone away. We'll do more missions, it'll strain you, it'll come up with a problem of endurance. This is an inevitable fact. This must also be taken into account in a serious way. It is clear that the Ministry of Defence, with the help of the Defence Forces, will then inform the committees of the ways in which this issue will be resolved. The committee then looks from its own point of view, which would seem to Parliament to be the best way forward. I'm sure we're gonna need some creativity from the Ministry. However, as the Minister said, this issue does not flinch the grounds for a Finnish defence solution in any direction. It is the most important thing to note here, at a time when many, many countries have had to rethink how to defend the country if it were to get very tight. In this context, too, it must be borne in mind at all times that our defence solution, with its extensive reserve, is one of the most sustainable and the best in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u29	Madam President! Of course, what the social partners have agreed on has unfortunately had a great impact on this whole. And these speeches and the comparisons in this direction, as Mr Semi and Mr Uotila have done here, have come before, that is to say, that a group of professionals should be able to maintain their retirement age, while another group would be able to increase it. This comparison has been made. However, it must now be borne in mind that soldiers are in a different position in terms of national defence capacity, and that is why one and another have been concerned here. President! This ability to cope with professional soldiers and soldiers in general, which has already been highlighted in several speeches: during the previous parliamentary term, the reform of the armed forces reduced the number of staff, but the tasks were actually maintained there. Of course, it has brought a great deal more burden to both professional soldiers and civilian personnel. It's a serious place, of course. When you talk to people who work in the Defence Forces, a lot of people are even exhausted from what they do. There's been more of that work fireplace. I would like to ask the Minister: how have you dealt with this question of endurance in the Ministry? What solutions might there be? Is it a solution to increase the number of staff so that this burden of endurance can be reduced and more people added to these important tasks? And, of course, the older the soldiers you go, the more serious it is to be able to cope. We should take that seriously now, too, at the head of the ministry and, of course, here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u30	Minister Niinistö, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u31	Madam President! I would say to Mr Kari that I do not expect the Committee on Defence to come up with these solutions. There are, of course, not as good as the situation at the moment. You will be told, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, yes, by the Defence Administration, of the measures to be taken to create a professional reserve in a cost-effective manner. Mr Heinonen asked whether this line on the retirement age of the Defence Forces staff was a direct line on this solution agreed jointly by the social partners, which arose in 2014. It's perfectly in line with it, I'm afraid, it is. Representative Heinäluoma continued on this same subject and I would add that I would certainly not mind increasing the number of officers, but it is a purely resource issue. For example, in the context of the defence power reform, the number of Defence Forces personnel was reduced to 14,500, as I recall. It was reduced to less than 12,000. Currently, the number of staff is about 11700, and the defence report specified that at least 12,000 people should be present. For now we can reasonably get along, but it is true that more is needed. At least representatives of Hakanen, Kärnä, Käärääinen and Savola drew attention to this issue of endurance. There is no doubt that uplifting is a matter of endurance, just as firefighters and concrete cuffs, for example. There is cause for concern about survival. Such measures have already been taken to monitor the ability to cope. The staff of the Defence Forces are largely in the desired position and these questions of endurance are not easily raised other than at the very last border. I myself have sought to follow this in my rounds of garrison. I try to visit as many occupied offices as possible and always meet staff representatives, and there has been a rise in the struggle. But there's a little improvement, though. I have to say that, just after the reform of the defence force, the situation was much worse when, for example, the troops had been merged and closed down. There seemed to be more friction at the time, but of course there is still a problem and need to be closely monitored. I thank you for an excellent referral debate. I have to go to the next opportunity, but I hope that the Committee on Defence will look hard on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u32	Mr President! While the Minister is still here: after that, we will have to check the content of the speeches, but this is the image of the Vice-President of the committee, who has to look for ways, and of course the committee, in this important task of defence, will help the minister and the ministry and all of us. It's clear. Survival is a big issue, and it may be the second main issue of this whole. The second main issue is the use of trained, skilled personnel to train the reserve, and the second is the ability to cope with our Defence Forces personnel. Often I hear representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff listening to genuine concern about coping. We have had a lot of concrete work to do with the Defence Forces' level of personnel around 12,000, but I would like to see this as more of a floor than a roof for the Defence Forces' staff. So we have agreed on such a minimum level together, and on top of that, we must genuinely look at the number of trainers — such reports have come that we have a bit of a shortage of trainers — and take into account the good speeches that have been made here in the Chamber about how we are doing it. Soldiers have to have co-workers, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u33	Mr President! I'd like to continue with a few more thoughts on this matter of endurance. It's real, too. I would like to share with you, at the same time, the observation that came in the context of the municipal elections and in dealings with the citizens. For the first time in my life, I noticed that a lot of people were talking about the problem of managing jobs more generally. As far as the military is concerned, there is no such feedback in Helsinki, but that is all. It does lead to the observation that it may well be that now that productivity has been raised and it has been a big goal and it has also been accompanied by the assumption that retirement ages can be raised when people’s health has improved and their ability to work has thus improved, these pressures at work are now so high on all sides that the same thing that we are talking about is in public administration, it’s in the ministries, it’s in regional agencies, and it’s in the service sector’s workplaces, it’s in health care. Never before have such a number of feedback come from the fact that people are concerned that they are no longer able to work at the hard pace that is, and now we turn to politics. This message used to come to the trade unions. This should be borne in mind that this increase in efficiency has also come up against some limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u34	Mr President! I think it is extremely important to be able to cope, and Mr Kari has taken a good example of the fact that this endurance, especially in the final stages, is extremely, let us say, not difficult at the moment, but they still have to make great efforts to do so. Even as a former professional athlete, I remember that the last few years are very hard-working for survival, and yes, because professional pride takes you to it in some way, but on the other hand rehabilitation after having been in this profession for a long time, I would like more bets. Even Congressman Heinäluoma took up this general effort. Wait until we are under the age of 15, who are perhaps in the worst condition in the Western world at the moment, then get along in the hectic world of the future. In other words, we have great difficulties in society with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u35	Mr President! As a reaction to Mr Heinäluoma's speech: However, we should not go along with the general perception in the media that the problems of coping are getting bigger, worse and people in working life are getting worse and worse. We do not really have research data on working life that would support such a trend at all. It's more media talk than facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u36	Madam President! Here, too, one thing that has been overlooked is the fact that there has been research into the fact that the will to defend the country has fallen significantly in recent years. I would also like to add it to this conversation. When you look at the stations and the garrisons of the Defence Forces — the areas where the Defence Forces operate daily — at least I personally feel that the military community there is such a calling card for the rest of the society, and that percentage of calculation of the will to defend the country at the moment does in some way also burden those who work in the region and try to bring it in positively in society all the time every day. When military clothing travels on a business trip and meets civilians wherever you meet, however, it does in some way also bring such a small mental load to the motivation of the work, and I wonder how any individual could bring that encouragement even better into civil society so that the will to defend the country could return to the tide. I would like to emphasise once again that this is the first time that it has been so significant since the end of the 1980s and, of course, it must be examined where all the fall is due. We all have work to do, and, of course, first of all those military places must be strongly involved in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u37	Mr President! I am not saying that working life has generally deteriorated, but it is worth taking seriously this observation of these problems of coping more generally in terms of working life, not just in terms of the Defence Forces. In this respect, I would also urge Mr Vartiais to recognise this fact that, when this efficiency is increased, there is a price to be paid. We do have a lot of interesting jobs where people work with great dedication and great motivation — there has been a reference to the Defence Forces staff, that they are in a position to be satisfied every day with their work and thus not to talk about these problems of coping — but there are also a lot of tasks with both this problem of endurance and a lot of effort. Finally, I would like to point out to Mr Vartiainen that not everyone has access to those naps during the working day and to their own decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u38	Madam President! In this respect, colleagues have raised excellent points of view. I'll pick one more up myself. Of course, it is quite clear that: For the Defence Forces, it has been an incentive to recruit that the retirement age has been low. As a young person, you may not think that at some point the retirement will come, but some do plan beyond their career and wonder that when I leave for military service, I will also retire earlier when I have given a little more. This is certainly one of the questions that the Defence Forces will then have to apply for, and we must hope that recruitment will not become more difficult in the future. Representative for Heinäluoma: I would have gone back a little bit to the role of trade unions in this society. After all, they are public-interest entities, and even by law such a community must act exclusively and immediately for the general good in the material, mental, moral or social sense. I would have been very interested to ask Mr Heinäluoma: how do you see whether this public interest obliges trade unions to reflect more on the impact of their decisions on society than just on the status of workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u40	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u41	Mr President! Transport services are an important economic sector that generates a significant share of GDP and is an important intermediate input for other sectors. In a digitalising and automated economy, when ways of moving change in many ways, the starting point for the government and Minister Berner is exactly right: increasing opportunities for different mobility and transport-based business; [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude] Mobility is also an important area for discussing work opportunities for people with fewer qualifications. We cannot yet know what forms of mobility and forms of agreement are the future, but the best way of doing so is, of course, to create as much freedom as possible for people and businesses' own entrepreneurship and ingenuity. It will reduce costs, which is important not only for households but also for public finances, which in an ageing Finland will be in a screaming shortage of resources. Digital platform and sharing economy business ideas are rapidly becoming more common. The government has quite rightly understood that this development should be welcomed. At the same time, security and tax revenue regulation must be ensured, and in this respect the draft law has been sensibly drafted. It's great to finally move on to a normal free trade in taxis. Perhaps you could ask in general: Why is our country always behind us? Must it always be the case that in Finland, with claws in their teeth, the established private legions are held? [Katja Taimelahinkäytä] Scared of territorial inequality sounds tired, too. The market economy is the best starting point for bringing services to both centres and sparsely populated areas. When is it usually the case that when market entry is facilitated, supply will be reduced? And if there are any problems, of course they can be solved. And since when is social democracy really opposed to international competition? Our entire well-being and funding of important public and well-being services is based on competition, international competition and profit motive. Mr President! The transport service is therefore an important law, part of a major change in attitudes towards the acceptance of a higher market economy. In Finland, it has often been thought too often that the store is for traders, that it is for its staff, that the food business is for farmers and that pharmacies are for pharmacies. In this respect, the reform of transport services is very welcome and will hopefully point the way towards other market-based reforms to improve the well-being of households. It is ironic that the left, which was originally born to improve the position of ordinary households, has also become a supporter of producer interest organisations in corporative Finland, and so on. Has anyone in this Chamber in this Chamber at all, at all, been able and remembered to rejoice that people are likely to be able to move at a lower price as competition increases, as otherwise there is a keen interest in even the smallest cut in income transfers affecting household consumption opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u42	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The law on transport services, more familiarly known to the transport sector, is now at second reading. Before Easter, we voted 28 times in this Chamber to maintain the current best taxi system in the world and to develop it in the spirit of current organisation and regulation. All those votes were briskly lost because the current government parties, under the leadership of Minister Berner, have decided that price and quantity regulation should be abolished in the case of taxis. We also voted on the fact that the government's proposal is abolishing the authorisation of vans and that in the future, a freight licence will no longer be required for internal transport of goods for tractors with a maximum permitted speed of 60 km/h. Madam President! The Act on Transport Services was at first reading on Thursday 6 April, and it was then put to the vote on Friday 7 April. It was interesting to receive an email from the Finnish Taxi Federation after Thursday's debate, in which they wanted to correct the incorrectly raised image in the debate that the Finnish Taxi Federation had been somehow adopting the bill and the accompanying report from the Committee on Transport and Communications. The Finnish Taxi Federation stated that the fact that the traffic cycle, or the current law on transport services, was somehow approved by the Finnish Taxi Association is not true. This illusion was effectively maintained in the debate by the government parties. What happens in the future? Government parties are prepared to waive, for example, the obligation to place taxis, on-call duty, car-specific permits, taximeters and driver's professional course. Mr President! We lost the amendment, although at the time of the last parliamentary elections 136 MPs considered the regulation of the number of taxis to be good. Our objection also includes three statements, which are worded as follows: "The Commission requires that the Council of State evaluates the law to Parliament requires the Government to closely monitor the impact of the legislative amendment on the transport market, paying particular attention to the fight against the shadow economy and the proper execution of various taxes and obligations. The dismantling of the norm must not lead to an increase in unfair competition. Parliament requires the government to act in a spirit of current organisation and regulation in the future development of taxi legislation in the light of digitalisation and technological developments." I would like to clarify that last statement, at least to the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Jalonen, when he has said in the media today that our protest would have meant that taxi transport would have been caught in the future by its own regulation and even lost Kela rides. On this point, too, let me make it clear to everyone that the removal of taxi services from the bill does not mean that we are opposed to the development of taxi services and that we are calling for the current system to be shackled. We are opposed to the proposed total liberalisation on the market without convincing instruments of control.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u43	Mr President! As a representative Taimela said in her own speech, at the first reading of the law several representatives of the government parties suggested that the Finnish Taxi Federation had adopted the Government's proposal and the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications. That is not true, because, as Mr Taimela said, all of us in Parliament received 6.4. An e-mail from the Finnish Taxi Federation corrected this incorrect information that had been given here during the general discussion. I'm now quoting the Taxi Federation e-mail: "On Thursday,4 April 2017,the plenary session of the European Parliament held a As an organisation of Finnish taxi companies, we have already had a great deal of discussions with officials from the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the minister who prepared the matter. We have also participated in various preparatory events and events, bringing our views to the development of legislation. The Finnish Taxi Federation's position has been that the best legislation could have been obtained through the development of the current law throughout the process. On the basis of the current law, it would have been possible to have legislation that would have ensured customer status and access to services throughout the country throughout the year." Today we have also received a message from taxi entrepreneurs in Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, which has also been accompanied by a large demonstration against the government's proposal. Mr President! I would say to Mr Vartiainen, who has told us that Finland is lagging behind in the reform of the taxi legislation, that this is not the case. It should be noted that the regulation of taxis is the main rule throughout Western Europe and even the United States, not to mention the Nordic countries. Nowhere has there been a successful deregulation of the taxi sector yet, but even the few countries that have gone there, Sweden, Holland, Ireland, are experiencing huge problems and are constantly making new regulations to remedy these shortcomings. How could a model based on a mere market economy succeed in sparsely populated Finland, where citizens and taxi services under the responsibility of society depend entirely on a functioning taxi system? The Government's proposal now adopted largely means a serious deterioration or even an end to taxi services in a number of rural municipalities. There has been no desire to take experience from Sweden, even though something should have been clarified. In Sweden, for the sake of consumer protection and taxation, taxis require permits and correct taxi metering and taxis, as in other European countries, must look like taxis. Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u44	Madam President! The needs for people to move change, and they change at an accelerated pace. We travel more, and we travel more and more in the form of business trips. The volume used in transport is about EUR 30 billion, which therefore applies to both passenger and freight transport, so we are talking about a large cake. The future services of transport currently under discussion aim to create the conditions for the introduction of new technologies, digitalisation and new business models in the transport sector. This could help to achieve better transport services that meet the needs of users and enable new business to be carried out in this sector. When the government proposal came to us as a traffic arch in Parliament, it is only the first step. In the second phase, we will then be dealing with the issue of rail, shipping and air transport, but this law concerned taxi transport, public transport, commercial goods transport on the road and the professional qualifications of taxi drivers — a very limited subject but very broad and consulted dozens and dozens of experts. The Act on transport services merges and renews the Code on passenger and freight transport. The traffic cycle, or the law on transport services, thus improves the competitiveness of passenger and freight service providers and also the combination of journeys. It is envisaged that open data and better use of data resources will support and bring new business opportunities to the sector. There will also be a different market in the coordination of ticket and payment systems. In the context of this law, the main debate was and will continue to take place on the new transformation of the taxi system. Authorisation quotas will be abolished and the current status and maximum price regulation will change. Operators should indicate their place of employment and on-call time, i.e. their main area of activity and service time in the future. If necessary, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency could issue an order on the prices of taxi services if these prices become excessive. Professional taxi services would be subject to a licence, but a car-specific licence will be converted into an operator-specific licence and the conditions for obtaining it will be reduced, inter alia, by eliminating entrepreneurship training. However, after consultation with the committee, we wanted to say that even if entrepreneurship training goes away, we want to keep the entrepreneur test or the operator's test. For we want to ensure that future and current taxi services are professional and safe for its users. Mr President! I can well understand the debate and the point of view that the debate on taxis is now very lively. It is about professional qualifications, the identification of taxis, the existence of taxi meters, the obligation to issue receipts and so on. But most of those things have, in my opinion, been able to block the corrections, clarifications and the fact that professional qualifications are still what is required and the test measured. Taxis must be recognisable, and a taximeter or similar device is the one that measures the distance and also verifies the price and still retains the obligation to issue a receipt. Mr President! At committee reading, we said that we wanted to table the committee's proposals for statements. In particular, we want to address the shortcomings in creating a new operating environment, but it is confirmed that we will be able to intervene in situations that are not on a good model with a very fast time-frame with the Government's deliberations. We must therefore react quickly to these changes if there are any shortcomings: we must monitor the situation and we must also monitor it. All of these were to be guaranteed by the proposals for statements contained in the draft report by the committee. There were three of them, and I have also somehow been able to sense that the statements tabled by the opposition parties were formulated in almost the same tone, thinking of the shadow economy and the intervention in market failures and so on. In other words, there are little of the same issues, the same lines and also the same concerns, which are intended to address irregularities, monitoring and then the adequacy of controls.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u45	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and citizens in the gallery! The Government's proposal for legislation on transport services has given rise to wide debate here in Parliament and among the citizens, and has also, among other things, been able to mobilise Helsinki residents and taxis in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area with their own demonstration – this proposal is a significant dismantling of Finnish taxicab legislation and regulation. This was the subject of a wide consultation of experts in committee, and the joint proposal is based on it. The transport market of EUR 30 billion is a large sum that is also being dealt with here. The share of the taxi market is probably around one billion of this total, but the volume of the debate could be thought of as talking about a larger issue. The Finnish taxi has always been based on a means-tested system. It takes into account the population density, urban and rural structure, and it has made it possible to assess the need for taxis around Finland in different provinces and provincial centres, in the same small rural areas. I think the current system has worked well. Of course, the new system and the old system can be compared — and the old system must be developed in this way — but in this trend, where we are going, we are consciously taking a great risk by going into the system which was tried with bad success in the neighbouring country of Sweden 20 years ago. The Swedes have corrected their own proposal for the better in this 20 years, including in Sweden and At the moment, I think there are well-functioning taxi systems in Denmark, which differ somewhat from the current Finnish system. Personally, I would have liked to see no need to make this error leap in Finland, but if we want to go along with a longer formula, this is of course one way of reforming the Finnish system, as has been said in the explanatory statement. The Finnish taxi pricing principle has always caused discussion as to whether the taxi is expensive in Finland. One of the pricing criteria is that we have a price cap regulated, but nowhere is the price of a Finnish taxi set. The price can be agreed with the current system whenever you leave. Finland has been available for a long time, for example at Helsinki Airport, for the price to be announced in advance on car windows, or in Helsinki it will be displayed at the points where the trip can be ordered. It always indicates how much this ride from the airport costs, for example, to Helsinki. So, in that sense, this reform is not a reform, but the introduction of the current working system in that respect. The taximeter has been good in Finland, and it comes to the current law, but it is significantly looser because the car has to have a taximeter or an equivalent time and distance measuring device, which today may be a mobile phone or similar device, because it is also able to measure the distance and time as well as the taximeter. The current system in Finland is a sealed taximeter, which must be, and at the time of the survey it will always be checked. The taxis are surveyed annually in Finland, and therefore the taximeter and the criterion on which the journey and time are measured is significantly more accurate than the future system and provides information, for example, to the tax authority and, in accounting terms, much more accurate. The current meter provides daily driving volumes, mileages, hours worked, euros driven, zero-VAT euros driven if the goods are transported — it has a different VAT base, it is stated in the current receipts and daily reports — and it has already been able to apply very carefully in accounting and tax terms to ensure that the current Finnish system is well-controlled in terms of taxation and the possibility of a grey economy is quite minimal today. One thing that is also changing, in particular, is this definition of the need for training. In fact, no training is needed to obtain a permit for a taxi in the future — enough integrity and proper conduct in the past, so you get a permit for a taxi. A test will be required for the driver in the future, but compared to the current system, entrepreneurial training will be abandoned and driver training will also be abandoned in the sense of education. Personally, of course, I regard it as a step backwards, because education in all sectors, including the taxi sector, increases the quality of service, safety and reliability. A few more comparisons I would like to make at the end of this speech. For example, in European countries, Germany, there are taxi metering in cars, and the cost and structure of taxis are significantly cheaper than in Finland because of cheaper cars, cheaper fuels — and there is probably a certain difference in labour costs — but, in particular, German taxi departure rates are significantly lower than in Finland, and therefore, in urban traffic prices are lower than in Finland. The current EU presidency, Malta, is an interesting example. There are all taxis licensed, but there is also a use of such a public taxi, which during the committee consultation was given to understand that this kind of national system would be significantly cheaper. I myself tested a Maltese taxi in January, and an airport ride with an official taxi cost EUR 20 and this public tax — which happened to be Toyota Corolla — cost EUR 22. That's how I got the impression that yes this kind of national system allows for this kind of varied financial management. Indeed, the committee has added to its own report three statements which, as Mr Vehkaperi said in his own speech, I too find very similar to the statements made by the opposition. That is how it seems that the opposition, too, to a large extent, was behind this committee's proposal, if reference is made to these statements alone, but I do understand the content of the questions raised by the opposition. I also see that there was another message, but the statements made by you were of this kind for the future, and there was a desire for more control, of this type, and in that sense the statements made by the committee are very similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u46	Madam President! I had to say that it was gratifying to hear from the expert, that is to say, from Mr Pakka, but at the end a little bit was pulled straight. The opposition cannot accept the dismantling of the Finnish taxi system, which is why we voted in this Chamber 28 times a couple of weeks ago, which is why we are certainly not behind this government's proposal as a whole, although the law on transport services also contains good things and that is why we have not been in this Chamber to propose the rejection of the law as a whole. Only in the case of taxis and in the case of tractors and in the case of freight transport, we have introduced changes in the articles, because we do not want to be in favour of bad development or the informal economy, but we are trying to support honest entrepreneurs and Finnish work. Mr President! We have all received a number of worrying contacts, most recently today, from taxi companies and workers. They are concerned about how the law on transport services will change the prospects for the taxi industry: will an honest taxi operator be able to respond to a changing competitive situation and make a living in compliance with social responsibility? We are now in the process of undermining the Finnish taxi system, from the proposal of the central minister, Berner, and the representatives of the government parties, who apparently believe that the abolition of price regulation would automatically reduce prices, but this has not happened in Sweden, Norway or the Netherlands, for example, where the taxi sector has been liberalised. And as the previous speaker, Mr Pakkanen, said, we have a maximum price, i.e. a ceiling price, which is regulated by the former law, but nothing prevents us from driving at a lower price, but it is precisely to ensure that the consumer knows the maximum price and can then be confident that the ride will not be unduly expensive anywhere in Finland. Indeed, Finland currently operates one of the best and most reliable taxi systems in the world, and it is now necessary to ask why the Sipilä Government wants to scrap this. And contrary to what has been claimed in the media, the Finnish Taxi Federation does not support this government proposal. On the contrary, there is now a fear that competition in large cities will drive oversupply and increase the risk of the black economy, unemployment, bankruptcies, but, on the other hand, in remote areas, there is a risk that a single small-town taxi operator will have to nail the gloves when both quantity and price regulation and on-call and station requirements are abolished. Mr President! We in the Left Alliance are also in favour of the proposals made by Mr Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u47	Madam President! In a way, shutting down is a type of skill — to interpret the positions of a lobby organization in such a way that when they have been involved in the preparation, it would mean that they would have accepted the policies made. In my opinion, it is quite unreasonable to create such an image in this Chamber that the involvement of a lobby organisation would be something and that some party's objectives should be carried through in committee, and I am really shocked that someone can draw such conclusions. I am very pleased, not because one of the representatives of the Government agrees with the opposition — I appreciate Mr Pakkanen’s expertise — but because he brought up those facts. That is why I would like to say, without repeating what Mr Pakkanen has said here, that these are the critical issues that we should now be looking at. However, there have been some positive features in the previous government and also in the programme of this government that the informal economy should not at least be encouraged to be curbed. In that respect, going down the road with this proposal means opening a small back door to avoiding taxes and payments that are currently being monitored and paid in this business area. In that sense, I would like to see what is a pious wish and what is not going to happen, that this really could have been considered. But, Madam President, another time more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u48	Mr President! I took on board this whole piece of material that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have been dealing with since last autumn. A number of experts have been consulted. I've just taken a few expert insights out of this one. The first thing that happened to me was Customs' statement, in which they say, among other things, about the exemption of vans from the authorisation procedure: Customs sees that the exemption creates a free transport market for registered vans in the Finnish territory, and according to Customs, these vans weighing between 2000 and 3,500 kg should also have been subject to the licence of the van. Then the police tell us about this tractor: it is estimated that the use of tractors in the transport of soil and stone materials will now become more widespread and will affect, among other things, the growing need to pass by the road and reduce road safety. Then the Tax Administration criticizes the requirement to remove taxicabs as the cash register of a taxi car, and here it tells us how it increases the black economy. The only positive statement I have now received is that of Uber, and it begins by welcoming the Government's proposal on the traffic curve. What does this, ladies and gentlemen, tell you?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u49	Madam President! Before Easter, three representatives of the Christian Democrats, who were present at the sitting, also voted 28 times against this government proposal specifically concerning taxi transport. Of course, it has to be admitted that, in this traffic cycle, the combination of these different types of services and their possible integration, the consideration of digitalisation and the promotion of technology are the positive aspects. Unfortunately, however, this taxi reform is going in a very bad direction. It is unfortunate that we should not learn from the bad examples that have been encountered in Sweden, for example, in this deregulation. This proposal divides Finland in particular in such a way that it is likely that taxi services in rural areas will in particular be weakened. In view of this abolition of the obligation to place on the ground, and then, on the one hand, the abolition of quantitative regulation, on-call duty and price regulation, on the other hand, I am afraid that this will completely destroy the transport of taxis in rural areas. When Mr Taavitsainen mentioned above that Uber has made the only positive statement about this whole proposal in relation to this taxi reform, in some way this raises the fear in the back of the head that is, in fact, just a step towards finding out that this system is in chaos, so it will not go any further from Uber. It is a good thing that these statements have in particular tried to take account of the fact that this is likely to increase the shadow economy as it is. I hope that the government will come to some sense during this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u50	Mr President! In this regard, I must agree with the points made in particular by Mrs Wallin and Mrs Taimela at the beginning of the debate. The fact that we are in favour of a market economy does not mean that there is no need for regulation. Every single time it is worth considering what is the basis for its regulation and whether it will lead to a better outcome. It is quite common among the citizens that cheap and good are often difficult to combine. If you want a cheap one, it might not be good. Our taxi system is certainly not the cheapest, but it is reliable and safe for all users regardless of age and life conditions. When you sit in a taxi, you know that it takes you straight to your destination, the price is the same for everyone, not to see if you can take more from that customer. I am one of those who have original experiences of this freedom. I have been cleaned of excess cash by taxis in both Tallinn and Stockholm. I assume that I am at least average enough to defend myself both from my size and otherwise, but when you are in a foreign country, in a foreign culture and you are in a hurry and the plane or means of transport is leaving, you will not stay and discuss whether this price is right or whether it is wrong, but you will have to find out that this is what happened. It would be honest for the government to admit that the modern-style taxi system, reliable and safe, will now be put to an end and replaced by the law of market forces, as in the way the government operates on a huge number of other issues — the law of market forces. Of course, the strong always manage, get along and check out the price, but when we talk about special groups, talk about older people, talk about remote areas, then this law of market forces will no longer produce it cheap and good. So the sense in this matter, the safe current taxi system is excellent, and I believe,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u51	Mr President! Representative to Heinäluoma: there really is no market power law coming. I recommend that you read through this report, which is all there is to it. Just as today many of these fears have come to light, so knowledge does help the pain very much. So you would read and learn more about everything there is. For example, when taximeters are spoken of, there will be very little change in the current state, for more detailed regulations will still be laid down as to what these taximeters or similar devices should be. In other words, there will be changes in the way modern technology is taken into account in these matters. At least we are not going backwards here, but we are going to make a great deal of progress here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u52	Mr President! That, of course, depends on what everyone means by moving forward, but surely it is beyond dispute that the taxi no longer has an on-call obligation, or have I now completely misunderstood and read my papers? I want to see what this is going to mean in the remote areas of Lapland. What will the Lapps say in circumstances where there is no longer any certainty if you need a taxi at 2:00 a.m. at night, is it available, and if so, where is it available? What are the entrepreneurs who are willing to do this, who no longer have any knowledge of this merit logic? I am very uncertain about this, and I say that we have experience of liberalisation, and indeed it has led to this kind of over-prices being charged and, as a result, many people feel that they have been robbed. There are others besides me who have been robbed in Tallinn and Stockholm — in a taxi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u53	Mr President! However, we live in Finland and Finnish culture and Finnish morality move forward. So I am sure there will be changes to the current situation here, but, as I have pointed out several times, I myself am the representative of the outermost countryside in Parliament, and I really look forward to this proposal and I expect it to bring us a lot of positive things. There will be negative things, but I believe that there will certainly be more concessions and opportunities. At the same time as we are also reforming the postal legislation and many others, these aspects of the transport sector were also in this same traffic cycle. In other words, it gives us a variety of business activities in different areas. Not a lot of grandmas have asked for a cab around 2:00 in the morning. Sometimes I've left around 2:00 a.m., but I've already booked that ride the day before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u54	Mr President! There is no dispute that the ceiling will be removed from the price. Well, I guess that means we're going over the roof now. There will probably be cheaper prices that have been possible now, but higher prices will come, and to whom will the most expensive prices come? To those who are weaker to defend themselves. It is not disputed that the obligation to establish a place of business is removed, i.e. it is not known whether the car is available from the place from which it has been available to date. These are undisputed changes. I suspect that when this is going through people will find that the old system was surprisingly good. It's very easy to do what happened on local radios. They too were promised by ten and seventeen good performers how to become fine local radios and entrepreneurs. It is now stated that they are all chained up, that two or three foreign-owned chains run the entire local radio activity and that the same record comes from all these different channels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u55	Madam President! Here Mr Essayah, and whether Mr Taavitsainen was a representative, mentioned rural areas that taxi traffic would leave the countryside. I would add to this rural area a few more sparsely populated areas. I myself am not just a representative of the Gulf, but I represent Päijät-Häme and the entire constituency of Häme. In my own constituency, there are a huge number of areas where this station obligation is a pole and it is the basis for the availability of taxi services at all times of the day for different needs throughout the year. I am a little surprised at what Mrs Maijala, a representative of the Lappish Parliament, has said. In some ways, I think of Lapland as a much less populated, much wider and more extensive area where there is no substitute traffic, such as public transport, which in Päijät-Häme and Häme constituency serves people well during the day. In addition to what Mr Pakkanen has said, I would like to say that Mr Pakkanen's speech included criticism of the meter, the increase in the grey economy and so on. I would like to see it possible in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u56	Madam President! I am not quite sure whether we can vote, but it is certainly a good idea to make such a wish. There has been a good debate here on price liberalisation, and I agree with Mr Heinäluoma that this price liberalisation is going to happen: in some cases prices will rise, in some cases they will probably fall. That's what a market economy is. But the good thing about this Finnish system has always been that the price cap has existed: you can safely take its car, and if there are problems, then you will have something to plead that this was now the robbery price in this case. Let's go to the station definition. This is what Mrs Majala and everyone else have told us. That means that all Finnish taxis have a station in the current system. If they don't have that post or station, then it's home. It's a designated station for that motorist. He needs to be on call at home. He has a 24-7 driver's license, but he can stay at home. Most of the time it's just like this in a remote area, long distances away. But then he gets to sleep those quiet nights at home safely under the lady's arm and then go out fresh at night.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u57	Madam President! Mrs Majala's speech was inspired in the sense that if you do not want to believe us as representatives of the opposition parties, then believe these taxi drivers and the drivers who drive these taxis. The examples and duubios that they have presented are as follows: With the removal of the obligation to place places of work, sparsely populated areas are at risk of being excluded from taxi services. On the other hand, the abolition of the duty to on-call services makes it impossible for entrepreneurs to work only at a profitable time. The removal of car-specific permits reduces the possibility for a driver to receive compensation if problems arise during the journey. A gate will also be opened to the grey economy at the expense of honest taxi entrepreneurs, and when taximeters are no longer required by government parties in the future, this is a direct hand-out to the grey economy and at the same time makes it difficult for passengers to know the price of their journey. These are not, therefore, the spectres of the opposition; they are the concerns and concerns of taxi drivers and taxi drivers about what this new law on transport services will bring when they arrive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u58	Madam President! The Minister was also present at first reading, and some of these same things were then considered and rightly so. As far as emergency services are concerned in remote areas, it was already stated here that, if the services do not work there — and it is then that no public transport actually works — then either we will have to return to the matter in this Chamber or the authorities will have to return to the matter or the municipality will have to buy the emergency services. Then there is the second question: is it the responsibility of the municipality to maintain public transport entirely? So if these things don't work, they'll come back to these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u59	Madam President! Of course, it is hoped that these reviews will actually take into account what is likely to happen in remote areas and in rural areas. It is difficult to see at this point what a miracle it would be for there on a weekday night, whether at the Lapland or Iisalmi posts, to be on call for those taxis to a large extent, perhaps still a few in Iisalmi, but in the Gulf of Lapland hardly at all. If there is a nearby city where rides are most likely to take place under market conditions, then it is reasonable to go to Kuopio in front of restaurants and wait there for those rides, certainly not in Nilsia or the Gulf of Lapland or the River of Suonen or anywhere 40-60 km away where there are very few taxi users. In other words, in some way it is difficult to see that there is anything here to improve the conditions in rural and sparsely populated areas. Unfortunately, this good system is being scrapped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u60	Madam President! I have to say that this on-call obligation is one such problem, but when we actually get to that list of speakers, I must say that this situation is unfortunately not without problems. Yes, something had to be done, but this system should have done the development work. I will return to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u61	Madam President! When the availability of taxi cars is reduced, the result is that demand is also falling. This is the experience of myself as a resident of my own region when I have discussed matters with taxi drivers and, of course, as a person who uses a taxi myself, I have come across this situation. For many people it is necessary to have a taxi because of work, hobby or personal health, and among the objectives of the Government's package measures, there are also targets to reduce private car use, reduce emissions and so on, but this proposal actually leads to a different outcome: many people who have had the opportunity to move a taxi will face the challenge of getting their own car when taxis are no longer necessarily available in their own area. As far as the grey economy is concerned, I am more surprised that when the government has been rather reserved during its own journey to fend for these grey economy wormholes and the government has only changed the line when the opposition has been able to demand it so loudly, it is now leaving such a gap in the grey economy. Mr Pakkanen, who himself is also a taxi driver, drew attention to this by saying, among other things, that there will be no further training for a taxi permit. So we are creating a whole new industry that no longer has the kind of training that has ensured us Finns and even foreign people travelling here a safe and professional group of taxi drivers who have handled their business in a stylish way and have collected the fees for these matters on the transport side. I think we're up to two minutes. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u62	Madam President! On this point in this debate, I am saving the ears of my colleagues and I thank the house's official machinery, because in order to keep the correct record of my own motion in the Minutes, I would like to suggest that Parliament accepts the statements proposed in protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u63	Madam President! I would particularly like to thank Mrs Myllykoski. He drew attention to that situation in the informal economy in his own speech. I myself feel that it is one of the greatest risks of this new performance. This is what is happening here — a lot has been said about it here, and I believe that there are many Uber users in the people of this house and in us parliamentarians — that now this future legislation will enable this Uber to be legalised in so far as ordering and caring has been a legitimate activity, but driving without permission has not been. But the next time that driver gets that permit without any obligations, then he also has a license, that is, that driver can continue that hobby-like activity with it, and then when asked if he has that permission, then he shows that he does have such a permit, but when that permission does not in any way oblige him to do any driving shifts or any of these things, then the letter of the law is fulfilled in this matter. That was the point where, personally, I would have liked to see a stricter wording in this legal text 'against compensation'. But I would also like to return to this on-call obligation, the fixed price and the quota. They have therefore been valid in the Finnish system, that if you have an obligation to be on call, you will get a fixed price when driving the job. Then, on the other hand, the quota has also been, as in hand, that there are not too many cars in the same area on call for one or ten rides when there is demand. On the other hand, if one day the quotas are abolished and the on-call obligation is lifted, then the price must also be released, then the market economy will go and the guy will get the ride, if he is willing to wait, but there is also no obligation to go on that ride when there is such a free space. These fixed prices, obligations and quotas have also made it compulsory for its car to go and come when it is ordered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u64	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Pakkanen, who is a professional, whether it is possible for the municipality to conclude an agreement, that someone or some of the people on duty should at the same time undertake to comply with a certain rate. Then this taxi operator will receive an hour’s compensation for being committed to a maximum of a certain maximum rate, so that this system is locked, as it were. The current system has been a good one, and it is working, but there is no way to take it away, as Mr Pakkanen has said very well here. There is an on-call obligation, there is a quota, there is a maximum rate, and these cannot be dismantled one at a time, but then the whole system must be reviewed again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u65	Madam President! This is where Mr Eestilä set a good example. Surely it would be possible for such an agreement to be concluded, but I myself ask the question: why do we have such an agreement now that there is an effective system, it does not cost the municipality anything at the moment? But, of course, if that situation goes to the fact that we do not get people and the need for them, then we are going to get into a situation, that in some way we have to ensure this, and then it comes to this, that the municipality pays. But the positive aspect of this current system is precisely the obligation to be on call without compensation; it is an important issue. The Finnish taxi stands there on the pole, it does not get any euros from the time it waits for its next ride. Sometimes it comes in ten minutes, sometimes it takes eight hours. I've been working the night shift myself, where there wasn't a gig. But I don't have the right to appeal, I'll drive it, and then another guy will do it zero night, but luckily it'll be the good night and double it, and that'll be the business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u66	Mr President! Congressman Pakkanen said this is the core. Now, of course, it seems a little strange if we start calling on the municipality in advance to help in this, as it were, as a guarantor. I recall this debate on social security, which has also taken place in this Chamber. That is where the government has taken the line that the municipality must not act as any kind of operator in the social welfare area. And the idea behind this government's social welfare reform is to prevent municipalities from acting in the event of war, and when it is not to be defined as municipal duties, then the municipality must not do anything in this area. Well, now the municipality is being yelled at as a taxi operator. It seems a little complicated in relation to the healthy, functional, reliable and secure taxi system we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u67	Mr President! I myself am one of those who consider the current taxi system to be good, but when it seems that the reform of the law is now coming, and when many times and many speeches have been made about the fact that emergency services are not going to work in some places, I myself made a somewhat proactive presentation of the solution that the authority is likely to have to intervene in. When I personally understand that mobility is, however, a fundamental right of citizens, if there is no way of getting public transport or taxis or anything to work anymore, then of course MPs must intervene or the authorities must intervene. And this kind of simple model, where you have to or can go, is of course the fact that then the reimbursement is given on call. I don't know if that's possible, but I'm just putting it in front of the future. After all, we must never remain in such a state that we present threats to people, but no one presents any sort of solution. I think that's wrong, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u68	Madam President! When there is no minister here and the Minister's role as MP Pakkanen's professional driver and expert, I will certainly spare the honourable colleague I have appreciated the question. But perhaps such a rhetorical question: if Mr. Pakkasen described the situation on the pole happens that there are either cars waiting for a ride or there is not, then the customer is mainly waiting for that car or at least hoping that at some reasonable price the car would get, then is there any more reasonable price when the price cap disappears? When availability is falling and demand is falling, the end of the equation is also that prices are rising. The few people who get their cars will get the car, but what's it gonna cost that cottage lady? I'm horrified to think at this point. The problem with this kind of traffic arch package is that there are ripe apples inside, but as MPs we should also buy those rotten apples. And through it, I would have liked to see one more vote on this and then a smarter law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u70	Madam President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, has now left the Chamber, and in that sense he will then be invited to take up other tasks than working on the traffic cycle. In my view, in principle, at this whole reading, when the traffic curve has begun to be reformed, one basic aspect has been ignored, and that is the future social reform. And these problems have to do with it, like the representative. In my opinion, Mr Eestilä has already given rise to concerns as to whether it is a municipality or not. At the moment, it is the Social Insurance Institution that runs this roulette. It's awfully expensive for us. We need reform for this transport, especially for those people who, because of their care, depend on public transport, and when they are not in the form of public transport, society has used taxi services. Even in the previous government, where the Left Alliance was also involved, we were determined to promote the idea that we had the reform of these Kela rides, and then reforms were made to this availability of taxi services, carpools and so on. But there was still an undeveloped step in the direction that at the moment Kela directs taxi services when it should be that the taxi service appointments are arranged at the central hospital in such a way that the cottage’s grannies and grandpas can take two or three taxis. So the plan is already being made in the appointment, how the service will be delivered to the Nakkilan Mäkirinnantie, where they will be picked up by Eino and Kerttu, and it will make use of the more efficient use of the current taxi capacity and the fact that people will be able to stop by the store on the same trip when they arrive from the central hospital. We have a lot of such thinking, which should have been taken into account in this traffic cycle already at the planning stage. Now it was just a market economy to reform this concept of service and it was really forgotten... Mr Kari well said that it has been a bit grouchy, as I said, to combat the black economy. As soon as, of course, those cuts showed how the government feels about the grey economy. Let us go ahead of the market and forget that business must also become revenue for the State and that the State is the one that will then enable these citizens, who depend on subsidies and, in particular, on access to care services, with these tax revenues, those transport services that cannot be made possible by public transport. It is indeed important for these quotas to be at the heart of the matter, this duty on call and so on, but when this debate takes place in that municipality, it must be said that something really needed to be done about this current system so that the duty on call and access to the rides would be better. In many sparsely populated areas, small municipalities, the bread of taxi entrepreneurs comes from daytime care services and school rides. And that business is so profitable at the point where these services received in the evening are much weaker and then the situation becomes that it is an ambulance or a taxi or some other mode of transport. However, more thought should have been given to these when they were already entering this traffic cycle and more of that social service obligation. But this model is not producing it. We have a market economy model which does not guarantee equal services for all citizens. I already see it with my soul’s eyes in Helsinki at the Christmas party when a driver comes to the pole screaming, who has a hundred euros, and when someone raises his hand up, they say that the ride is here for you, unless someone shouts that I pay 100 to 20 bucks starting money, and then the rest goes this way. It is certainly clear that this will happen. And who would not come from that sparsely populated area 60 km away to provide services at the best time, leaving its own territory and its own municipality without public transport, i.e. taxi services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u71	Mr President! Here I would like to mention one more expert who went to the committee to share his views, and that is the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This is what their opinion says: "It should be noted, however, that it is impossible to assess the economic impact of the proposed changes in advance. The proposal involves risks of increasing costs rather than reducing them. The abolition of public transport licence requirements for scheduled and call traffic and the abandonment of taxi station quotas can be estimated to have market-focusing effects. The availability of transport services may be reduced and travel costs may increase, especially in sparsely populated areas and in growing municipalities during the quieter travel periods. Moreover, in the event of a de facto reduction in unhindered public transport solutions, it may result in the migration of residents to the centre or the transfer to service housing or facilities, which would also contribute to the overall economic impact." I believe that these are speeches, texts and the views of experts that should have been taken into account. These are the things we talked about in the committee, but I simply do not understand why none of these, the great pink that is here, were taken into account. I support what Katja Taimela has just proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u72	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski pointed out very well that the current situation in the taxi sector is not without problems, and indeed the forthcoming social welfare reform he made very clear. This means that reform is needed in these areas. That is why it is good that now, with this new performance, we are able to combine the transportation of taxis, Kela, goods and mail, the handling of various services with the same transportation and rides. In other words, these have actually been taken into account in this proposal and enabled the current situation to be taken into account and then to go towards tomorrow. The permanent establishment is now actually being removed, but at the same time we also have easier opportunities to start a business. So I believe that we will also have other, not so full-time, but part-time, multi-professional entrepreneurs who will then be able to support in those situations when there are fewer of these services in use. And if more taxi rides are needed there, it is all right for taxi drivers to receive that income, because it is not in anyone's interest either that taxi driver has to wait and get no income from it. We need income for everyone. The grey economy must be prevented. It was raised all the time in this matter and we wondered how to deal with it. It will also be followed here very much so that it can certainly be prevented. The grey economy has been on the table on a wide range of issues during this term of government, and certainly it will be prevented and a great deal of work will be done to remove it. We have three cars at home, the nearest taxi is 30 kilometers away, and I wouldn't mind if I could sometimes use someone else's car for some kind of reasonable compensation, but I can't afford to pay for the taxi coming to us first from there 30 kilometers away and then I have to start paying for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u73	Madam President! This innovation in the area of digitality is very welcome, but we must be surprised when there is concern here too — I have just read an e-mail in which drivers and taxi operators are concerned about price, training, access and safety — where the experts who actually support the government’s proposal in this respect can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u76	Mr President! It is now necessary to tell Mr Paatero that this is the intention that entrepreneurs will receive better income from their own work in the future, i.e. that they will have a full-time job, that the idle waiting time can be reduced and, when there is work, that work can be done properly and very much. The second is that it is certainly not intended to start transferring any taxi service activities to the municipalities. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u77	Madam President! Now we have to sharpen our party colleagues a little bit, that this current proposal does not in any way improve the economy of existing entrepreneurs, but it can always be hoped for. Yes, with this motion, Mr Paatero, there are supporters. There will be a huge number of supporters of this performance here in the Chamber. After all, many experts have put forward a lot of good proposals on this. Many consumers have said that yes, great job, prices are falling. There are supporters for this, there is no point in being concerned about it, but there is agreement on whether this reform is good for the players in the sector. And how will municipalities and cities react to this in the future? How's Kela? That is why I would like to mention when Mrs Myllykoski included the Kela debate, that taxis have already taken significant austerity measures with Kela in combination with Kela in the current situation, but time will then show whether it will be possible in the future. There has been talk of savings of tens of millions in public transport at the moment, which are rides to replace Kela, but time really shows what the future is. In his own good speech, Mr Kari asked what was a reasonably priced taxi ride. This is a little hard to say when there is too much in the womb, where there is too little in the womb. Personally, I would say that a Finnish taxi in relation to the price level of a Finnish consumer is competitive. It is not the cheapest in Europe, but it is not the most expensive in Europe either. If we compare the other price levels, wage levels, car prices and these tax issues in our country, we are quite competitive in Finland at the moment. Well, the combination of rides has been successful up to now, but legislation does not just make it possible today to transport food, packages, people, sick people in the same car at the same time. However, there was no desire to interfere with this in this draft law, which means that there is still a lot to be corrected here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u78	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u79	Madam President! With regard to this Government's proposal for a law amending the law on joint public administration services, I would like to say a few words and quote here the text of the protest: 'In consultation with experts, opinions and messages from the provinces, the idea that the temporary amendment of the law is not appropriate, inter alia because it increases administrative work which, in the worst case, could be wasted when the law has to be changed quickly.' This motion has been criticised, as I have just said, by the majority of experts and has presented this deficiency in this draft law. One major commentator and expert institution is the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, whose opinion states that the proposal does not meet the challenges of the current state or its own objectives. I therefore submit a motion for rejection in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u80	Madam President! I support Mr Kari's proposal. This 22-month separate legislation, as it may be called, sounds strange — I raised this objection at first reading. If the provincial government comes, then perhaps here you can rhetorically throw the question that is so that the government does not believe that the provincial government will come after 22 months, because now you have to do this kind of reform, which will then be done again after 22 months.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u81	Mr President! From this it is good to continue after the representatives of Kari and Paatero. I listened to Mr Paatero's support for this motion to reject Mr Kari, but if he did not, I warmly support it myself. In this context, it is good to remember that this is now a matter of temporary legislation, which would only come into force from the beginning of 2019, but when we know that these larger administrative reforms are still on the way and will certainly also bring about new changes to this co-service legislation, then the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to provide for such temporary legislation, especially since these practical practitioners from those municipalities have been very strongly telling us that the effects of this, as stated in the proposal, will not be achieved. As a result, it is good to draw that conclusion, as many experts at municipal level have pointed out, that this temporary legislation is not appropriate and should therefore be considered for a moment. That is why it is justified to really present this rejection, as we do in our protest. Perhaps another point is that there has been a very strong will here in Parliament in general that more old standards should be dismantled than new ones should be introduced, and I do not think that this will fit into this spirit of norm, that there should be such temporary legislation, for which there is no appropriateness. In this regard, this is a bad reflection and would like to see the government wondering for a moment whether this legislation is needed. On these grounds, I really support Mika Kari's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u82	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-18-ps-38.u83	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Even at the first reading of this bill, I drew attention to the way in which the Constitutional Committee, or in practice its experts, had assessed, on the one hand, the right of the prisoner to be handcuffed during transport and, on the other hand, the right of prisoners and other persons involved in transport to safety. At first reading, I wondered about the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee, its experts, and I hoped that the chairman or other members of the Constitutional Committee would have justified it more. Now, at second reading, my wish is the same, but even now the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or, in my view, none of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are present. At least there was one member last time. Now that it is about 4 p.m., we have to ask what time these issues should be discussed here on Tuesday afternoon in such a way that the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, or even members of the Constitutional Committee, would be present. Mr President! Let's get to the point. On the basis of a statement adopted unanimously by the Parliament, the Government proposed to Parliament a decree that, in certain exceptional circumstances, all prisoners transported could be handcuffed, even if individual consideration of the risk or danger of escape of each prisoner would not be made. The Government proposed the following new paragraph: "Without prejudice to paragraph 1, for short-term transport, all prisoners carried in the same vehicle may be bound if it is necessary to protect the safety of the prisoner or other person or to preserve the safety of the transport because of the large number of persons transported, exceptional traffic conditions or other similar reasons." This is the new article. And in the following paragraph it was written in the government's motion that 'the commitment must not be extended beyond what is necessary'. In other words, binding here means handcuffs, even if you read the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, which refers to one of Cameroon's precedents, and you read expert statements referring to Nelson Mandela and Poland and Russia, I do not know what kind of shackles the committee's experts or members imagine Finnish prisoners are being carried. However, this is what the government presented, and how did the government justify its proposal? Let's take a word for it, too. The Government thus argued: "The proposed provision would allow all prisoners being transported for short-term transport to be bound for the necessary reasons for securing transport during transport. Such reasons would include the maintenance of transport safety and the integrity of the prisoner or other person in situations where a large number of prisoners would be carried, the transport would take place under exceptional traffic conditions or there would be another comparable reason for tying them. In practice, binding all prisoners would be necessary, mainly when a large number of prisoners are being carried to court. In such situations, there may be prisoners suspected of various offences, which are not necessarily known to the Criminal Sanctions Agency’s staff. In such a situation, it could exceptionally be justified to prevent potential hazards by pre-binding prisoners during transport." So this is what the government justified. I will take further reasonable arguments from the government's proposal here. In fact, the government also argued this way: 'The proposed provisions provide precise and precise rules on the situations in which all prisoners being carried can be bound. Such a commitment could only be made during short-term transport when a large number of prisoners are transported, traffic conditions are exceptional or there is another comparable reason. Furthermore, binding requires an overall consideration that it is necessary to protect the safety of a person or to preserve the safety of transport. Proposals can be considered acceptable as they seek, above all, to safeguard the integrity and security of other persons from possible disruptions during transport." And further: 'The rules are limited to exceptional situations where the safety of transport cannot be guaranteed except by binding all prisoners'. So this is how the government justified this proposal. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or in practice its experts, were faced with quite a classic situation of weighing. In the second horizontal cup, the prisoner’s right to personal liberty and immunity was placed, as guaranteed by Article 7 of the Constitution. In the case of short-term transport, if there are a large number of prisoners, if there are exceptional traffic conditions or if there are other reasons to be treated as such, the tying which would be necessary — i.e. 'necessary', not 'necessary', 'necessary', should not be 'necessary', but 'necessary' to protect the safety of the prisoner or other person, according to the legal text. In other words, I understand the protection of this security in that it also protects the legal virtues of Article 7 of the Constitution, which, above all, involves immunity, security, which I understand, for example, means that the lives and health of other prisoners and prison guards or other persons may be at stake. On this point, the government made further arguments in this way, and I will read out the explanatory statement of that verbatim, which is what this security means. It was written like this. First of all, the government wrote: 'Infidelity would mean that other possible arrangements, such as the use of compartmentalised vehicles or the placement of prisoners hostile to one another in different transports, should also be assessed when considering the binding of all prisoners carried in order to secure transport.' But then, 'Protecting the safety of a prisoner or another person would mean that there is a threat of violence between prisoners or of violence against staff or external persons, for example because of suspected offences committed by the person being transported or other known facts. Ensuring the order of transport would mean that there would be a risk of escape or other threat that transport could not be carried out properly, for example due to known traffic conditions." In other words, before the Constitutional Committee there was a situation of reflection: which legal virtue is now more important to protect — that the prisoner or the prisoner should not be handcuffed when, however, there is no doubt or doubt about his/her own person, or that there are other prisoners there, there are staff there, perhaps other people whose safety, that is, physical integrity, life, may be at stake? Which was more important in this situation? What did the Constitutional Committee decide? Well, of course it decided that it could be a hell of a thing, but the right of the prisoner to be without handcuffs during transport is far more important than guaranteeing the safety of other prisoners or prison drivers or prison guards. In this analysis, which contained in both scales the legal virtues referred to in Article 7 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Committee considered it more important that the right of the prisoner to be without handcuffs during transport be guaranteed, even if it was necessary for the safety of other prisoners, prison guards, other staff, to act differently. In this analysis, therefore, the right of this prisoner to be without handcuffs is greater than the right of other prisoners and guards to be safe — that is, even if it is assessed that this guarantee of protection necessarily, therefore necessarily, would require handcuffs for all prisoners in the same transport. This is so inconceivable that I still cannot understand it. Is the safety of these other people — other prisoners, prison guards, other people who may be involved in transport — such a small need that, although it is necessary to ensure safety that all these prisoners in the same transport are handcuffed, this handcuffing must not be done? This was the decision of the Constitutional Committee, and the Constitutional Committee therefore decided that it is contrary to the Finnish Constitution — hear: contrary to the Finnish Constitution — that all prisoners should be handcuffed in the same transport, even if it is necessary to protect the safety of other people, that is, the life and health of others. This was decided by the Finnish Constitutional Committee — guided by its experts, of course. When I have read the expert opinions and also the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the Constitutional Committee has considered this legislation unnecessary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs could have considered it unnecessary and pointed out to the Committee on Legal Affairs that it felt that this legislation should not be regulated because it was unnecessary — in the same way as the committee felt it was a bad thing, that the burden of proof had been reversed in certain cases of financial penalties, and that the Committee on Legal Affairs decided, however, that the burden of proof being reversed was necessary and that, fortunately, such a law was passed and different tax and financial crimes were allowed to hold their own. However, the fact that the Constitutional Committee would have been content to say that it considered the act unnecessary was not enough for the Constitutional Committee, but the Constitutional Committee stated that it was contrary to the Constitution of Finland — in other words, contrary to the Constitution of Finland, it is to safeguard the security of other people in a situation which is exceptional, which is short-term, for which there is a particular reason and where it is necessary, if it requires that the prisoner be handcuffed. Oh, my God. I don't understand this. If that is what is said, as it is said,'modern fundamental and human rights doctrine', which Thomas Ojanen and his partners are talking about, I do not support this modern fundamental rights doctrine, in which the right of its prisoner to be without handcuffs during transport is greater than the right of their other people to security, i.e. personal integrity, health and even life. Well, President, when much time has gone by, I will conclude by saying that when the matter was discussed in this Chamber at first reading, there was a single member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Hokkonen, and I think he acted chivalrously when he tried to defend the committee's position. But the attempt was not very successful, because he justified the committee's position, among other things, by the fact that new vehicles have been brought in and these new vehicles put these prisoners in their own cage. Mr Hoskonen used the term 'closed cage' and now I should think that it is a lesser violation of the human rights and fundamental rights of that prisoner when he is put in a locked cage instead of being handcuffed. How the old Romans said: o tempora, o mores!
