ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u1	The only discussion will be on the 4th issue of the order of business, the Government's communication on the change in the parliamentary basis of the government. Following Prime Minister Sipilä's presentation, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with group speeches of up to 7 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. At the end of the examination of the communication, a vote of confidence shall be taken on the part of the Government or the Minister if a motion of censure has been submitted to the Government or the Minister during the debate. Parliament may decide to refer the matter to a committee which must submit a proposal for a Parliament decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u2	Madam President! At the heart of parliamentaryism is that the government must enjoy the confidence of Parliament and that the government can continue as long as this trust exists, usually until the end of the parliamentary term. As Prime Minister, it is my duty to ensure that, in all situations ahead, the Government's operational and decision-making capacity is also in place. If Parliament's trust is lacking, the government must resign. As Prime Minister, I also believe that the government should ask for a resignation if it is not capable of carrying out its task. Following the decisions of the Finnish National Assembly, a situation arose that, according to my assessment, the government’s ability to act was threatened. All decisions and opinions are based on values. Each party has been deliberately or unwittingly built on its own values. In practical decision-making, a compromise will be reached on the basis of opinions emerging from the government's values on each issue to be decided. Sometimes it's easier, sometimes it's very difficult. On Saturday, after hearing the decision of the Finnish National Assembly, I thought that the difference in values between the government parties had increased significantly due to changes in staff. The line of the People's Party had changed, further away from the line and values of the other two government parties. We decided with the Minister of Finance Orpo that, before drawing conclusions, we would have a clarifying discussion with the new Chairman of the Finns Party, Jussi Halla-aho. That's what we did. I thought that discussion was good, frank, open and honest. After considering the situation with Minister Orpo, we decided to propose that cooperation with the Finnish Parliament Group on Government cannot continue. The difference in values between the government parties had grown to such an extent that there was a clear risk that it would no longer be possible to find solutions to the issues ahead. In particular, this risk was linked to EU policy and immigration policy guidelines. The government is also committed to Western democracy, the rule of law and undivided human dignity. In addition, the new chairman of the Finns Party said that he was staying in Brussels. It is quite clear that, in terms of the functioning and commitment of government cooperation, the chairman of the party must be closely involved in the work. We felt that the proposed arrangement would also have weakened the government's practical ability to act. In accordance with our proposals, the Parliamentary Groups of the Centre Party and the Coalition Party decided to terminate cooperation with the Finnish Parliament Group. Mr President! We started preparing the government's resignation and new government negotiations. The negotiations were scheduled to begin last Tuesday at 6 p.m. Different options were envisaged. Questions were prepared for the parliamentary groups at the meeting on Tuesday. I was also aware that the movement in the Parliament Group of Finns grew all the time. Finally, on Tuesday, 20 representatives separated from the Finnish Parliament Group and set up the New Alternative Group. All five members of the Government who belonged to the Finnish Parliament Group before the amendment were transferred to the new Parliamentary Group. The group decided to support the government and its ministries and provided guarantees that the value base for decision-making would remain the same as in the past. Cooperation with this group was most natural. The government would continue with its former ministry and current programme, and there would be no interruption in the work. I also got the interpretation from constitutional scholars that the government can continue to operate, even though the formation of its support in Parliament has changed somewhat. Together with Minister Orpo, we decided to propose that the Centre and the Coalition Party parliamentary groups continue their cooperation with the current ministries and the current programme without any change. We also said that the government's resignation would not be left behind in this situation. Parliamentary groups in the Centre Party and the Coalition Party accepted our proposal later on Tuesday evening. The Government's parliamentary base is now made up of the Central Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group for the Coalition Party and the New Option Parliamentary Group. Mr President! Let's go a little back in time, May 2015, when the President of the Republic appointed our current government. It was formed by the parliamentary groups of the three largest parties in the Parliamentary elections — the Centre Party of Finland, the Finnish National Coalition Party and the National Coalition Party. Then, in this Chamber, I told you that our government programme will tell us our common goal in Finland in ten years' time. We want to build a bridge along which we can overcome the difficulties ahead as a united nation. We have been building this bridge for two years now. We have also achieved a great deal. The situation has improved as planned. Four individual changes have taken place in our composition since 2015. These changes had no impact on our strategic government programme. Neither is the change in the parliamentary basis that is now under discussion. Over two years of government has not changed our ideas about our strategic government programme and this new phase has not changed. We still want the same things and the same objectives, and we are making a strong contribution to them. Mr President! There are good news from the economy every day on the broad front. According to the latest data, turnover in manufacturing has grown by 12.2 per cent in the beginning of the year and that in services by 7.7 per cent from one year back. The number of foreign tourists grew by 19.5 per cent. As a result of the good news, the number of bankruptcies has decreased by nearly 30 per cent in the early part of the year. All this good news sums up the fact that the economy grew by 2.7 per cent in the first quarter compared with one year ago. Enterprises' confidence in the future has returned, resulting in a 9 per cent increase in investments. The first information on the second quarter indicates that the economy has continued to grow rapidly. Accelerating economic growth is a prerequisite for improving employment. The rising employment situation also means an improvement in the situation of the long-term unemployed. Long-term unemployment has fallen by nearly 12,000 over the year, but is still too high. Our task is to find solutions to the sustainability gap of around EUR 10 billion. For this purpose, the guidelines have mainly been drawn up during the first two years of operation. The Finnish economy faces such significant challenges that more growth and jobs are needed. As a result of the decision taken, the government now has two years to continue the well-started economic recovery and to work hard to achieve the economic and employment objectives. We did not want to jeopardise this good development. Mr President! EU membership is a political choice that links Finland to the Western community of values. The Union needs to be reformed and improved. Finland has actively promoted closer EU defence cooperation, for example. We want to continue to be an active player in the development of the European Union. As a member of the Economic and Monetary Union, Finland is committed to promoting the stability of the euro area. Finland’s objective is a rule-based and functional euro area in which each Member State has the primary responsibility for its own economic policy. These entities are strongly based on the central principle of the government of a united and viable European Union based on respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, [The President knocks ] Mr President! One of the fundamental standards of the Constitution is that the government must enjoy the confidence of Parliament. There was a change in the parliamentary basis of the government last week, but this did not affect the composition of the government or the government's programme. Consequently, there is no significant change in the composition of the Government within the meaning of Article 62 of the Constitution. The imposition of premature parliamentary elections provided for in Article 26 must also be regarded as intended for very exceptional situations, which is not the case here either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u3	Mr President! There were quite exceptional times in Finland last week. Politics isn't boring, at least not always. Understandably, however, events have also confused us. There were twists, and things quickly changed. After the National Party of Finland in Jyväskylä, it became apparent very soon that there are no preconditions for further cooperation in the Government. The conclusions were mainly based on value issues and policy issues, but also on practical issues. Tuesday's dramatic news of the break-up in two of the Finnish Parliament Group changed the view again. Now we are in a situation where, in line with the communication, the Government will continue the Centre, the Coalition Party and the New Option Group. The MPs who remain in the People's Party will move to the opposition. The central parliamentary group supports the Government solution. The solution is to break down the political crisis that our country experienced last week. We believe that this solution will ensure the stability of our society and the continuation of Finland's positive economic and employment development. The solution also ensures that there are conditions to bring the reforms that are in progress, especially the social and regional reform, to the end. People must be given jobs and services secured on an equal footing throughout the country. In EU policy, we need a clear and coherent policy that will enable us to influence EU decisions and best safeguard the interests of Finland and Finland. This requires that we act in the right reference groups in the EU. There is also a need for a critical debate on immigration policy in the debate, and every effort must be made to ensure the safety of people's daily lives. The centre line is not "closed", but neither is "welcome all". Dealing with this phenomenon in a wise, rational and just way is one of the challenges of our time. You have to help those in need, but you don't want to be too naive. Not all those who want to enter our country are sincerely motivated to come. We must be careful, but fair. There must be no room for discrimination, racism and hate speech in Finland. I believe that this is the view of the majority of Finns. I wish one day everyone would agree on this. Mr President! On behalf of the Central Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank both the Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups of the New Option for reaching a solution. We know that the decision to leave the Finnish Parliament group was certainly not politically easy, and personally it was not easy. At the same time, we appeal to everyone to remain calm both in this Chamber and outside these walls. Throwing a stamp ax in one direction or another does not help to solve the problems that are common to Finns. The old saying "Guess your own condition, give value to another" is a wise guide from now on for all of us. In due course, Finns will decide whose option they trust. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, when the Prime Minister is sometimes criticised, I think it is worth acknowledging here that, without the Prime Minister's leadership, the situation could now be different. Juha Sipilä held the reins despite the fact that last week was politically pressurized and cross - drawn in many ways. Once again, the storm came out into the weather. It is now important for Parliament to return to its normal working position and continue to work on putting Finland in good shape. Everyone is needed: a responsible government, a responsible opposition, of course, as well as a capable social partners. Our common task across party and other borders is to strengthen people’s faith in the future now that after many years of decline, Finland is finally heading for the better. Mr President! During the beginning of the year, Finland’s economy has grown even faster than Sweden in a long time, and otherwise it feels good. According to forecasts, the economy will also grow by the end of the year. The most positive thing is that young people's unemployment and long-term unemployment are finally falling. But Finland will not be okay until everyone is involved. In addition to improving employment, the most important thing for the central parliamentary group is to stop the long-standing inequality. In these circumstances, when there is not much new to be shared, care for the weaker is primarily for the reform of Finland. There is a need for a more moderate reform of working life. Social security must be made more supportive and simpler. In order to support the well-being of families, the focus must be increasingly shifted to prevention in the future. New solutions and a longer-term vision are also needed to combat inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u10	Madam President! Last week we experienced the most revolutionary days of recent parliamentary history in Finland. The Finnish Party had chosen its new leadership at its party meeting. The changed party came back from Jyväskylä, for which we could no longer be sure of the party leadership's commitment to government cooperation and joint programme. After that, in last week's discussions, we were guided by two factors: responsible management of our values and matters. Policy is primarily a matter of common concern and of safeguarding a stable social order. It is that we guarantee every Finnish citizen the opportunity to grow to its full potential regardless of their starting point and that our companies, for example, have a reliable operating environment in which they dare to invest in growth and employment. It will be impossible to deal with common issues if the values and vision of Finland guide political decision-making are too far apart. Government work is based on a strategic government programme that leaves room for manoeuvre for daily work. Only a government that is sufficiently unanimous and shares the same vision of the future is able to function and reform our country. For us at the meeting, it is essential that the parties can trust each other in the work of the government and that what has once been agreed should be kept.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u15	Mr President! In the light of everything that has happened, my assessment today is inevitably very critical. The foundation of each nation is ultimately built on common values. The values of democracy, solidarity and caring and respect for human dignity form the spiritual bond that holds together Finland. Deep respect for the fundamental pillars of democracy, such as Parliament and parliamentarianism, creates stability, security and predictability. In times of difficulty, values become more important. On Saturday 10 June 2017, there was much hope in Finland. The chairmen of both government parties said that they were thinking about the future of government cooperation from the point of view of values. "It is also a question of principles,not just a commitment to the Government Programme,—such as the Prime Minister Sipilä spoke of the concept of humanity and fundamental values. A lot of people thought at last. Politics will be restored to basics. There are limits to intolerance and hate speech. By Tuesday, all the valuable speeches were gone. The direction changed at the speed of the jet, and the values changed to power politics. Prime Minister Sipilä withdrew the government's resignation from the flight. The government decided to continue as if nothing had happened. In the light of today's information, the conclusion is clear. In this card game, I think some of the players had marked cards. Mr President! It is important in politics to talk about values, but it also includes responsibility. Words and deeds must match each other. Values are weighed especially in difficult places. That is why real values are demanding. They live every day, or they're empty talk. Responsible decision-makers must not act in such a way that words become cheaper in their mouths, values are flattened into words. We should not talk about equality if, at the same time, you make decisions that increase inequality. Professor Emeritus Klaus Helkama well summed up the events of the past few days: "I have thought that this is not really a question of values. Well, that's a little bit. This has been a political game recently." That's a pretty rough estimate. Mr President! Parliament was not given a great role in this play. The parliamentary groups of the government parties were put before the facts of what had happened. Mr Harkimo gave an exhaustive assessment yesterday: "Last week we had a government crisis that was a government crisis for everyone except Soin, Mr Harkimo wondered how the ministerial seats would remain, even though the number of MPs was almost halved. We'll see if the speaker of the truth has a place in the inn. The Members of Parliament have and must have the full right to leave their party if they consider that the direction of the party has changed fundamentally. However, the right to justice would be increased if the solution were not to involve securing its own oversized power stations. Otherwise, this is explained to the outside world far from history; 30 pieces of silver have only turned into five ministerial places. Prime Minister Sipilä walked over Parliament with his solutions. The legal scholars in office were not asked. Before that, it had been decided to leave the office of Chancellor of Justice for six months to wait for the elected official. Today Professor Lavapuro describes what happened as a serious problem. The President of the Parliament, who should have guarded Parliament's position, was a member of the defectors themselves, so that watch was also missed. President Niinistö woke up at the turn of the week saying that the government’s resignation could have been in order. Even when softened, the president’s statement was tough and exceptional. It should stop us all in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u18	Mr President! Author Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn wrote in his Nobel speech in 1970: "The simple act of an ordinary brave person is not to participate in lies, not to support them. Let lies come into the world, and though they rule over it, but not through me." The new option group and its 20 MPs chose a new path. The bills stayed, but the spine stayed. We thought the government program was good two years ago, and the mind hasn't changed. Our line hasn't changed. The Finnish People’s Parliamentary Group considered the Government Programme good until Monday last week — but the mind has changed. Let the new line come to the old party and let it rule, but not through us. The work creates the well-being on which the whole welfare society is laid. And patriotism creates the collective spirit by which we together turn Finland's course. The background and basis for everything is our ability to reform now in this difficult situation, our ability to reform our economic policy, our ability to reform our immigration policy and our ability to reform the social and health sector, our ability to move to the present and meet the challenges that we ourselves have accepted when we joined the European Union, opened up our economies and moved into this global world. These were the words spoken by Minister Sampo Terho at the Parliamentary plenary session on 9 May. The President The new option group wants to save our economy, support job creation, ensure the safety of Finns and implement the necessary reforms. According to Eurostat, labour costs in euro area countries have risen by 1.5% in the first quarter compared to one year ago. At the same time, labour costs in Finland have fallen by 2.7 per cent. [ Hulls about the Left Alliance] Mr President! May was just perfect. Consumers' confidence in the economy was stronger than ever, while industry's performance was strongest since 2008, the result of services was strongest since 2010 and construction grew still above the normal rate of growth. [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u26	Mr President! In honor of June, we have had the privilege of following a special play. It has been like a well-written TV drama: a coup, divorce and a relieved reunion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u33	Mr President! It's a bad play! Powerful people put themselves above others. The decision-makers are right for them, but the members are wrong. In addition to the new option, others, even the President of the Republic, have been involved in the piousing. Oh, this amount of double standards! You have to twist the truth all the time to get others to hit you. The new Chairman of the Finns Party has publicly announced that the election programmes, goals and values of the Finns Party for 2015 remain valid. The Finns of Peru would have been prepared to continue in the government and to follow the agreed government programme. When Huhtasaari, in its own political opinion, rightly wants to get rid of the EU, that is a problem. When Mr Terho and Mr Elo want to hold a referendum on the EU, it is not for Orpo and It's a problem for the clover.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u40	Mr President! Everyone in this Chamber is familiar with the negative imagery of politicians. Many Finns feel that politicians are unreliable people whose values and promises change as soon as they gain power. That is why many people are alienating politics in general. Instead of big visions, goals and the pursuit of a better society, politics is seen as a power game and a self-interest. During many school visits, I have told the students that Parliament’s work is given a much more cynical and self-interest-based image than I have experienced it myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u47	Värderade Talman! Redan som barn får vi lära oss att hålla oss till sanningen. Vi får lära oss att det är viktigt att kunna lita på varandra. Hela vårt samhälle bygger på förtroende. Det är ingen tillifällighet att vi finländare anses pålitliga, att vi är ett folk som står fast vid vårt ord. Ett folk som håller vad vi lovat. Det är mot den bakgrunden som vi ska se på den Senaste veckans kädelser.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u48	Madam President! The parliamentary base of the government has changed dramatically. The political group of five ministers is a group of 20 MPs, who, in turn, do not have their own party, political programme or party people. So we only have two government parties at the moment. A completely exceptional situation in the history of Finland. Given the exceptional situation, the wisest and probably fastest way to stabilise the government would have been to launch a parliamentary process to form a new government. However, another plan was implemented by key government ministers: one of the government parties broke down instead of the government. A contingency plan for the events was available in the press a week before the events. However, of the central ministers of the government, everyone in turn has denied that there was any plan. Trust capital is the most expensive capital in politics, without which an individual minister, or in particular the entire government, cannot work. It will not be easy to rebuild trust capital once it has been eaten. Mr President! The government base of the two parties is vulnerable. The backwaves of the breakup of the Finns are still rocking the government boat for a long time. The survival of the five ministers is under test in this spoon-sharing. However, there should be plenty of energy for that actual government work: to handle Finnish affairs. This is where the government will need the opposition more than ever. For example, the completion of the social welfare reform requires the assistance of the opposition. The problems raised in the Constitutional Committee have mainly been known at least by experts and the opposition at the stage of the legislative process. The Christian Democrats have constantly raised their main concerns about the difficult integration of the incorporation process and the equality of the chosen model of freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is in itself a positive thing for us. However, the Government's policy on freedom of choice would threaten the freedom of choice of citizens in the future, as the model would create too great a potential for regional, private monopolies. In order for citizens to have freedom of choice, smaller service providers, such as small businesses and organisations, must also be able to continue to operate after the reform. At the moment, it is precisely the small operators who are in a very precarious position to be able to operate on the basis of the reform. The expertise of the opposition would have been needed earlier in the preparation of the war, but at the latest these aspects need to be consulted. The government and the opposition are equally pleased with the economic growth that has begun. The background to this growth is the turning point in the global economy, which is finally beginning to show up in our own countries. But even the benefits of this little economic growth can still be destroyed by the government’s own mistakes. Poorly implemented social welfare reform can lead to additional costs rather than savings. The crushing of the Alcohol Act through the warnings of experts leads to a dramatic increase in substance abuse and expenses and, worst of all, to human tragedies. With a bad government policy, the fruits of economic growth have suddenly been eaten up. If employment policy is still managed only on market terms, many people who are long-term unemployed, incapacitated, mentally ill and partially able to work will not even get a bite out of the fruits of economic growth. Instead of government policy, care and a more humane approach are needed for the weakest. Mr President! The government stands or falls on the New Option Group. We have heard that this group is telling us that they have committed themselves to the government programme. And we also know that the presidents of the two government parties have made the rules of the game clear to Sampo Terho, the European minister for the new option. EU issues are guaranteed to be at the centre of policy for the next two years, so the level of commitment is always measured in practice. Greece repeatedly needs more money, immigration policy is pushing for an automatic burden-sharing mechanism, and Brexit will increase the EU price for the net contributor country Finland. A skilled EU policy is needed in the key joint phase of the European Union for Finland’s future, in which the government’s own line should be clear. We Christian Democrats expect a thorough political debate on the direction of EU policy following the completion of all the Commission's discussion papers on the basis of a government report. The Christian Democrats reject plans for federal development. Instead of federal development, we want an EU policy based on cooperation between independent Member States. Member States must be responsible for their own development, otherwise we will be forced into growing transfers within the Union. Mr President! It is up to Parliament tomorrow to approve or not to vote in favour of the government's trust in the actions of key government ministers. It would be in the interests of the country that the remaining years of the parliamentary term should go without renewed government crises and that there should be a functioning government that enjoys broad confidence not only in the parliament but also in the citizens. Unfortunately, the Christian Democratic Parliament does not have confidence in the government's policies or in its government programme. That is why we are voting for mistrust of the government. We agree with Mr Lindtman's motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u50	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, the decision was made purely on a value basis on Monday, this proposal to the parliamentary groups. Values are still not on the market. In this situation, we went completely blank with our proposal for a solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u55	Minister Orphan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u56	Mr President! This is a repetition, but I feel it is important to take this floor. A week ago, the Coalition Party and the Centre Party decided on Monday that government cooperation with the Finns living in Halla-aho could no longer be continued. This idea had matured during the weekend’s convention, with its choices, and with Monday’s meeting and subsequent discussions. The first was the contradiction in values, the second was the commitment to the government programme, its interpretation, and the third was the ability of the government to act. When we made this decision on Monday, we did not know for certain where it would lead, and what happened after Monday is the result of this decision. The Group of the Finns Party made its own decisions, which opened the way for the continuation of the government. However, this disengagement from the group by such a large number was a very exceptional act, so exceptional that I did not believe in it and did not build on it until Tuesday, when the way and the size and number of the group were strengthened. I even find it a little amusing that I, or the National Coalition Party, would have been at some tables in the past to plan what is to be done after the meeting of the Finns, such operations and manuscripts. [ Hulls about the Left Alliance] As a result, we now have a majority government that is stronger and more operational. It is committed to the Government Programme and we interpret the Government Programme in the same way. This decision could have led to the resignation of the government, government negotiations or new elections. That's the risk we took because there's a line somewhere. This process can be criticised, but it does not take the fact to nothing that we drew a clear line from the value base of how Finland accepts its approach to human dignity, democracy, universal values in general. And if it is a question of your opinion that this is going to come into question, because we will continue with the new option, then I think, when I look at these rational people, and even if Terho and Elo, who lead this new option, the difference in values, the way things work and the history is quite remarkable. I believe that this group speech has strengthened this, and I do not think that we can fail to see and acknowledge this. That line-up — it was value-based and has resulted in these subsequent events.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u59	Minister Terho before the debate, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u60	Mr President! I will only speak briefly on this point and then answer the questions of the opposition as long as the debate is now taking place. I would like to thank the opposition for these opening remarks and perhaps most of all my previous political reference group for its own contribution. It actually answered better than I could ever have explained why I and these 20 Members of Parliament wanted to leave behind what we have left behind. These remarks about us may have been expected, but the President — they show the style we can expect here and the style we did not want to take part in. All I can say is that it is a tremendous relief for me that I am no longer the person who is now stepping out to explain these statements to the media.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u63	Now we can move on to the debut. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reserve the answers by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u64	Mr President! The opposition has been feisty in this debate. There are valid arguments, but there are excesses. Sourdough, said the fox of locust berries, comes to mind. Someone has lost power in this process, someone may have hoped to have it in this process, but they did not. Someone was already enthusiastic about the new elections, but that is not the constitutional response to political crises. Mr President! It is good to remember that even whole parties have left the government without the Prime Minister's resignation. You don't even have to remember for very long, and you don't have to go too far. You don't have to go far to remember. This new composition, the centre, the coalition and the new option — whether this group has the confidence of the majority in Parliament, will be decided today and tomorrow. How this works in practice will be seen in the coming months. I think it's worth a try and see before you come up with your final opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u65	Madam President! Finland, the Finnish economy, is currently at a very sensitive stage in the development of the economy. Employment and the economy will improve, but we still have a major problem with public debt. Last Tuesday, when it became clear that the Finnish People's Party was falling apart and the possibility of continuing to form a majority government will continue as a majority government, no politician responsible for Finland's economy and future could need a government breakdown, government negotiations or new elections. Uncertainty about the continuity of effective economic policy would have been the worst poison to Finland's future and to those citizens who need services from the Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u68	Mr President! So, what it looks like, there's an old proverb. It is what it looks like, Your Honor. Now it looks bad. Your own credibility would be better if you had given particular priority to parliamentaryism and went to the Parliament to seek the possibility of a) changing Finnish politics and b) seeking a new government base. Prime Minister Sipilä, we informed you in advance that if the process of forming a government starts, we will respect this constitutional process. But that's not what you wanted to do. On Monday, we talked about values, and on Tuesday, they were already dropping them. Mr President! Professor Lavapuro's statements and statements that there has been a serious problem here should not be underestimated, nor should President Niinistö. What this looks like can't be explained otherwise by word magic. Prime Minister Sipilä, I would like to ask you: can you really assure me that there was no talk within the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u69	Madam President! When I listened to the speech of the Finnish People’s Parliament Group, I could not think — as did Minister Terho’s — anything but that they would do it themselves. As far as EU membership is concerned: we are committed to the records of the Government Programme on EU membership, and also to the Government Programme and its entries in this respect, Mr Huhtasaari, who said that he was in favour of these policies. That's what their chairman Halla-aho said last Monday. So you have to wonder who is inconsistent and who is consistent. As far as the French Macron Party is concerned, congratulations to him on his election victory. I was not talking about political ideology when I referred to him in the media, but, as Minister Terho said, to those policies, on the positive occasion that is good. I do not like the atmosphere of hatred that is now so much in society. This activity went completely according to the Constitution: the same government programme, the same composition, then this can be done. This government will also get results, and I hope that the next step will be the reform of the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u70	Mr President! The Government's immigration and asylum policy is from Jussi Halla-aho's pen and prepared by Minister of Interior Orpo. Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo are disengaged from Jussi Halla-aho, but I ask: will the government also resign from Halla-aho's line? What will change or will anything change? Beautiful speeches must be earned through deeds. Can Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo tell us how the government's immigration and asylum policy will now be changed to match those fine words of value.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u71	Mr President! Jäätteenmäki once had to resign after telling the changed truth about a lesser matter than this. Here not only the Finns but also the Finnish people have been deceived. It is a disgrace to Finnish democracy and the entire Finnish people. It is good to bear in mind that many of the MPs from the new option have made it to Parliament from the list of recommendations made by Jussi Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u72	Mr Huhtasaari, I would remind you that it is customary to call other representatives in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u73	Mr President! We are now in a situation where, in practice, there is a new party in the government. And it is precisely the values and political line of this new party's group that is most obscure. During the Presidential campaign, Minister Sampo Terho said that he was in line with Jussi Halla-aho, particularly on migration and European policy issues. The biggest difference between the candidates during the campaign was that Minister Sampo Terho would have liked to hold a referendum on EU membership earlier
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u78	Värderade fru talman! Det är valdigt synd att minister Soini inte är på plats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u81	Madam President! At no time were the Christian Democrats calling for new elections, but we felt that it was important to respect the constitutional process and to proceed accordingly. You, Prime Minister Sipilä, on Sunday you called all party leaders and told us very carefully how this process is going. Then, to our surprise, we discovered that this process was not going to happen and it has been interrupted. I would have liked to ask what stage and the number of decisions were taken to stop following this constitutional process, but to suspend it and continue with the events that followed. I hope that the Prime Minister will repeat here this chain of events.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u82	Mr President! When you, Prime Minister, contacted me on Sunday, I told you at that point that the Social Democrats are ready to negotiate, to discuss, from values onwards, but that means a complete turn in government politics, it means a complete turn in in inhumane cuts, it means a complete turn in education policy and it means a complete turn in immigration policy too, in matters that have been discussed here in Parliament: humanitarian protection, family reunification and the like. Prime Minister Sipilä, you said in this connection that it may be difficult to reach an agreement. We agreed that it may be difficult to reach agreement on the basis of that debate. So we have not refused to negotiate, but we have said when you announced that the government wants to continue with the old programme that the position of the Social Democrats is that this cannot happen. That is why we have seen that the new elections would be a sensible whole. At this point, Prime Minister, Sipilä, it would have been possible to discuss family leave, extending compulsory education,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u83	Mr President! The basic Finnish slogan was "Workers' Party without Socialism". Now I have come to mind the old idea of the historical concept of ministerial socialism. Could it now be thought that the New Option Party is a party full of ministerial socialism?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u84	Mr President! I listened to Minister Orpo's speech here and I was a little surprised that when our parliamentary group spoke, you said that this said a lot. I did not know that you really think negatively of me as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, for example. I've had the experience of enjoying trust. I did not know that I too, as a Member of Parliament, have now changed in the eyes of the ministers. This is very regrettable. I was the candidate for the presidency myself. I've never been behind anyone. You also stated that the government is more capable of action. I understand this very well, because now there are only two parties whose programme is actually being implemented, and the government programme is very high-level, so that there are no details. On the Political Radio 5.6., before the party meeting, we have discussed the fact that 20 members defect and move to the government. Where could this rumor have come from if this wasn't invented until Sunday?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u85	Mr President! These last few days have not been a credit to anyone and above all to Finnish democracy. The Orphan and Sipilä spoke very highly of values. They stressed, for example, the rule of law. This means that the State is organised by legal provisions and that the legal provisions are applied to the activities of the various authorities of the State. The rule of law goes back to the constitutional requirement that the exercise of public authority should be governed by law and that the law should be strictly observed in all public activities. That is why I wondered why the Prime Minister did not take it all the way to the President's office and submit a notice of resignation, which would have allowed us to appoint a new Government Confessor and this same composition could have been brought together on exactly the same date. I know that legal scholars have been consulted, but a lot of people who are familiar with state law believe that this process should have been carried out in accordance with the book, and it will be left in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u86	Mr President! I completely disagree with Mr Mikkonen here. Our Constitution is very clear about parliamentaryism and this situation. Government in Finland belongs to a people represented by a parliament meeting in the Parliament. About a hundred years ago in the autumn, when the Parliament declared itself the supreme authority, it has been the supreme authority ever since. Here is the essence of whether or not the government will enjoy the confidence of Parliament, and tomorrow it will be measured. There is no reason to ask the government to resign if there is no doubt or if the government has broken down inside. It is good to move on from this. Of course, it is up to the opposition to question the confidence of the government and to challenge it, to wish it every success and courage, to stimulate the government to act properly, but that does not mean that it should do so. So we've been talking about values. There is quite a bit of question here about how heterogeneous the current opposition is and what its values are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u87	Mr President! In my opinion, this play last week was quite worthless, even though the manuscript was quite good. My week was mainly marked by disappointment and disbelief. Can anyone in a democracy even plan anything like this, let alone fulfill it? In particular, I remembered the final scene of a worthless play at the Summer Beach, where you, Prime Minister, assured the leaders of all the parliamentary parties that there was no plan, everything just happened. Of course, in the papers we have read something quite different. Prime Minister, last week my idea of an open society, democracy and decision-making experienced quite a blow. I think that we all have a long way to go in this Chamber so that we can restore our citizens' faith in politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u88	Madam President! A week ago, when one government party changed completely, it was quite clear that the government could not take the risk, especially in such a situation, when the economic turn has taken place and there are already positive prospects for growth. Above all, it is about values, democracy, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law, but above all it is about trust and the ability of the government to act. Today, the Brexit negotiations have really started. It is quite clear that the EU27 is going to develop, and it requires, above all, a good functioning, active approach from this government, as the Prime Minister has often pointed out, and its own initiatives on the table there. I really hope that the government will remain united and take us increasingly actively into the role of influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u90	Mr President! Here the government now suggests that it has undergone such a whitewashing of values, in which all the stains have been left out, the ideological ballast thrown overboard. It has also been said here that the line of this new group has not changed. I think that's the problem. For example, Sampo Terho is in the board’s ranks, which in an article in Channel magazine ten years ago warned that the European race is in danger. And Simon Elo last week commented in the Democratic newspaper Nuiva by saying that it is actually surprisingly moderate. Such positions are found in government ranks, and values seem to be in place. Prime Minister, isn't this rather unusual?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u91	Mr President! "My political home is burning to the ground." This was said by many who decided to leave their political home after the Jyväskylä party meeting. When a home is built, both an architect, a builder and a host are needed. In the building of the home of the Finns Party, Foreign Minister Soini has worked in all these roles, and this home has been extended several times over the last 20 years. Every four years, the architect, builder and host of the home have invited you to a home party. New family members have joined this home. There's been a home party, and sometimes things got wild. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whose home has now been burned: did you not at any point notice that the fire alarms had been ringing for a long time? Didn't you ever think about installing fire doors before the fire finally spreads and destroys your home? And did it ever occur to you that it would have been worth installing security locks before the Resistance?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u92	President! We have been living in times of confusion, and it is amazing that we were able to save the country so quickly. There are indeed three things that Finland does not need now: a government crisis, labour market conflicts and, thirdly, terrorist attacks. If such things happen, the earth is in total chaos. The government did an excellent job in this regard, and it was proved that saving the Fatherland of the new option for people takes precedence over its own political interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u93	Mr President! Last week's government crisis triggered today's announcement. The historical government crisis was resolved in a situation where Finland did not have the highest legal officer, the Attorney General. This problem was highlighted by Lavapuro: 'The lack of a law enforcement officer and the task of dealing with fixed-term contracts that the Constitution does not even know is a problem'. 15.6. After this government crisis, the Government announced that Sandbattle was appointed as a fixed-term chancellor. This was your run on this one. On the other hand, the Government announced that it consulted the retired Parliamentary Secretary General Tiit and Emeritus Professor Hidén. All credit to them, but it is now extraordinary to have to rely on retired experts from outside Parliament. The President of the Republic, Mr Niinistö, also expressed the view that the Prime Minister could have made a request for the resignation of the government, so this would at least create an unclear picture of the situation. I now ask Prime Minister Sipilä to take a stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u94	Secretary Häkkänen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u95	Mr President! As Mr Tölli well said, there is no constitutional ambiguity in this matter. These statements, which have now been read in the public domain, read them carefully too, are not legally unclear. If we now look at this situation with regard to the Chancellor of Justice, then the whole time will be a competent, capable person to carry out these tasks, as you also know yourself. In the past, chancellors may have been ill, on vacation or on other missions, and a qualified person has always carried out their duties. There are about 30 people working there: qualified, capable lawyers who meet all the eligibility criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u96	Mr President! I too am interested in this question of the Chancellor of Justice and the number of legal scholars. When we met at the Summer Beach after the decisions had been made by the Prime Minister about the direction to be taken, the Prime Minister only appealed to Emeritus Professor Hidén and the former Secretary-General of Parliament Tiitinen. There were no references to the Justice Department officials. The question now is how much legal expertise has actually been used here, Prime Minister. At the same time, I would like to ask you how much, Prime Minister, you knew in advance about this situation that was being born in the Finnish Parliament Group after the Finnish People's Party. How much information did you have about what was going to happen in practice? Yes, this play, a poorly scripted summer theater performance, is now showing itself as a truly wonderful whole in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u97	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u98	Mr President! Now this main argument for the opposition seems to have been written before the weekend in the government. Mr Lindtman asked if I could assure you that this was not the case. I can assure you that is not the case. There is no government — at least I myself have not been involved in any of the debates in which such a plan was made. After all, it would be unheard of considering the possible outcome of the party assembly and making a plan for it in advance. These are all imaginary stories that the papers write and you're here to repeat. There has never been a debate like this. Such indications, for example, at the Government Party Summer Festival on the Summer Beach, were that if this political home returns — as examples have been used here — then movement can take place, for example, by moving representatives to other parliamentary groups. This was the debate on Tuesday evening, a few representatives of the People's Republic of Finland are looking forward to this happening in that situation. But to create a new group and yet a group of people of this size, no such debate has taken place. I've never heard anything like that before that weekend. On Sunday evening, I first heard that there was something to think about, on Monday, after the decision was made that our differences in values had grown too large, those discussions began to get stronger, at 12 noon this new option group had met, and then I got the minutes and I called Simon Elo, the chairman of the group on the Summer Beach about 14:30, and I asked a few more questions about this. And then, together with the finance minister, Orpo, we made a decision to suspend this process. Well, which constitutional experts have been consulted? We have heard Hidén, Tiitinen has expressed his views on this, but we have also received a memo from the Ministry of Justice under the authority of the Chief of Staff, and the Ministry of Justice, as the Minister of Justice has just said, has had a wide-ranging reflection on what this means. Lavapuro — referred to here — also said that the result was legally correct. This is a little problematic when we always quote just a few of each’s statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u99	Mr President! Prime Minister, you have just said that it would be rather absurd for us to be prepared for different options because of one party meeting — more or less so. The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, said in his previous speech that, of course, there are different options to be prepared for. And when I asked you whether there was a discussion in the government about this, Minister Soini, who is not here to answer — I agree with Henriksson’s apologies for this — wrote a blog a week earlier in which he condemned potential defectors, and has later practically confessed by saying that the blog was right because he saw this danger. Now Minister Soini has already acknowledged this. This is what it's all about. And as far as Lavapuro is concerned, he expressed concern that the government crisis is in the country when there is no appointed chancellor. He considered this problem to be a serious problem. You're just gonna ignore his point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u100	Prime Minister from the scene, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u101	Mr President! This is where the rumors and the plans really go wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u104	Mr President! I would see that in this situation Finns expect us to bear responsibility for the long future, that in this exceptional situation the whole Parliament will reflect, which is the best option for Finland's future, so that such an atmosphere of hatred and confrontation in Finland is reduced and that we can have a stable majority government. And now, under Prime Minister Sipilä's leadership, you have made an operation for which, for example, journalist Lauri Nurmi anticipates in advance that such consideration exists, you have had some advance information that something might happen to the Finnish People's Group. But even so, you came out this weekend as if this was just a matter of values. Now it seems to the Finns that the government is continuing the immigration policy line at the hand of Jussi Halla-aho, allowing the European Minister Terhon to continue his strong Eurocritical and critical speeches on Europe, but it only ensured the continuation of its own position of power so that the social reform goes forward the way it wanted and the Prime Minister gets those provinces. So was this a question of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u105	I give the floor to Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Zyskowicz and then to Mr Terho and Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u106	Mr President! This government was formed in this form because the Minister: The soy may be in Luxembourg at the moment, instead of being on the ministerial stand. His personal jam pole is getting closer. A few quotes: "The new option slips like a worm with no spine. Did the government secure the memorial section of the convention, where the minister's briefcase and personal jam pole came in, but the memory went away? It's an Audi ride as a co-op party. On the basis of the election result, a solid majority government must be formed in Finland without any turbulent parties." Minister Terho: What do you think who could have said these things? Who said these things? In fact, only the party's name has been changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u107	Mr President! Life is often more interesting if you see many conspiracies around you. I can confirm one conspiracy theory. Yes, we prepared for the situation that Jussi Halla-aho would be elected Chairman of the Finnish People's Party and that the character of the Finnish People's Party would be changed. We had a number of discussions under the leadership of Minister Orpo in a small district where we said that, in such a situation, we do not want to continue working with the Finns on the reasons that Minister Orpo has repeatedly stated. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u108	Minister Terho, three minutes from the speaking room.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u110	Minister Orpo — let us assume that 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u111	Mr President! I can only confirm and say that there was no plan within the government, like what has happened. No one has been able to anticipate it, but they have been quite clear speculations, as Mr Zyskowicz well described. There were a variety of speculations that if that happens and if someone defects, a group will be born, but that there is such a large group that separates from the Finns, there was no thought either. Then, when it became clear and strengthened on Tuesday, conclusions and decisions were drawn. When the Finnish Party held its party meeting this weekend, it renewed itself as it did, as President Halla-aho said, 'our party's profile has changed', and when you look back on what it means, it was very clear to us in the assembly that we cannot continue working together. It is absolutely true that this decision was taken on that basis. After we said together that cooperation had ended, we started to seek new solutions with the aim of the majority government and of continuing to implement its government programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u112	Mr President! It is no honour for the 100th anniversary of our country to be presented to Parliament by the so-called three-V government. The first V, i.e. the modified truth spoken in this Chamber, is represented by Minister Soini — or would be represented if he were present. Where Soini, there's a problem, now somewhere else. The second V, or distortion, falls on you, Minister Orphan. You dare to appoint the representatives of the Finnish people who disagree with you in the newspaper as troublemakers. You are making derogatory claims about the value base of others, even though your own value base really does not stand up to scrutiny. The third V is a lust for power. I think that's where the trophy has to be handed to Prime Minister Sipilä. You are watching this sad play to secure the power of your own party in the provinces. Of course, on that page you will be eligible for benefits for your own reference groups. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a worthless play. I appeal to you ordinary Members of the House who are used as rubber stamps for your leaders: do not give your confidence to this puppet government, to be precise, to the EU puppet government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u113	Mr President! In some way I have been in this matter and at the heart of it, and on my part I can give a full certificate to both Orpo and Prime Minister Sipilä. This kind of prewritten manuscripts or plans simply cannot be made because, for example, how do we know that enough people differ from the Finnish Parliament group? Who guarantees that 20 MPs will walk? Nobody. There's no plan like this in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u114	Mr President! I have spoken with more representatives here in Parliament, with representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, with the New Option Group, and quite a few have said that there were a lot of contacts from certain people who wanted to make sure what happened next. Now that Minister Orpo has just said that this new group was born and strengthened, I ask what you meant. And again, I ask the Prime Minister what your legal basis for that assessment was when, at that event on the Summer Beach, if I remember the situation right now, there was only an oral statement from Hidén. So there was no written statement yet, it was said that it would come at 19, something like that, and it was also said that it was discussed with Titus, but there was no mention of any other legal assessments. I would now like to know exactly where you based the decision when your proposal had already been made at that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u115	Mr President! This debate on procedures and the story of the arc seems to be going nowhere now, so I repeat my question about the government line. Could Prime Minister Sipilä or Minister of Finance Orpo tell us how the government's immigration and asylum policy is now being changed to reflect these fine values. I would like to repeat this question. My second question relates to the reform of social security. Could the government perhaps assess the possibility that this reform will be carried through with the cooperation of the government and the opposition? And I say that the Greens have committed themselves to implementing the reform of social security as soon as the government commits itself to the original objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u116	Mr President! What does Finland need in this situation in Finland and in the world? Finland needs stability. Stability in order to safeguard our economic growth. Stability so that we can work to reduce inequality. Stability so that we can safeguard Finland's internal and external security in this security situation. This is exactly what further work by the government means. Sometimes there's turbulence in politics. Then anchors and stability are needed. I would like to thank Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo for their kind of anchoring in this turbulence situation in Finland and we can move forward and safeguard the well-being and security of Finns in this demanding situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u117	Värderade Talman! The government has a lot of work to do after this play to convince Finns that democracy works, that elections are important. But it is a great job to convince our European friends that the fact that we have a European minister who wishes to have a referendum does not mean that: In these Brexit negotiations, Finland would now be in favour of Britain, rather than the EU, in the hope that the referendum would appear to be an attractive option. But there are good opportunities. Up to now, the hopes for reform that have emerged from within the government have been rejected by the government’s promotion of, for example, basic Finnish family policy. I think this is an opportunity to reform family leave. You no longer have to appeal to the immigration line of the Finns of Finland when you reject the removal of the needs test of the labour force. Now I think that's a good chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u120	Mr President! Congressman Turunen claimed here that the Left Alliance needed Halla-aho for the government. That's not what we've been saying. We have questioned the fact that Prime Minister Sipilä has made a decision on the basis of values. Sipilä was well pleased with the basic Finns whose immigration policy program had been written by Halla-aho, and that is what you are implementing, but now it is no longer good enough. You say that there are no great differences in value in this new government of yours. Your minister, Lindström, wrote a few days ago on his blog about "intruders". Does this term correspond to your values, Prime Minister Sipilä, if those asylum seekers who risk their lives coming here for protection are called invaders? Is it, then, that you and Lindström has no difference in value?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u121	Minister Lindström will respond shortly, but not quite yet. — Mr Heinäluoma, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u122	Mr President! However, it is still essential to consider whether there has been a fundamental change in the basis of the government, which would require consultation and consultation of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u127	Mr President! For my part, this situation was known to me late on Sunday night. I can also confirm, for my part, that the Prime Minister has called, one minute precisely, but around 2:30 p.m. You rarely get calls like that. I have to wonder a little bit about Mr Rinte's view of immigration policy. As yet in 2015, you said that you fully support the government's asylum policy action programme, but now you say that we need a complete turnaround in immigration policy. What's the demo line? The Government's line is consistent and clear. We compare the situation with our control countries, such as Sweden, which have revised their policy, and so there is Finland. And I am deeply surprised that a parliamentary group is questioning the authority of the President of the Republic as inappropriately as was heard here. This is rarely heard in this respected Chamber, in the sanctum of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u128	Mr President! Minister Orpo spoke of interpretation and values. Now I would ask: if Halla-aho had come to you, having sold all his principles, his country and his base of values, carried out active repentance, all the tricks, whatever it is,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u131	Mr President! I understand that no legal scholar has publicly denied that the government was doing the right thing here. From a constitutional point of view, there is no problem here, and this has come before Parliament now. Now we are discussing this, and tomorrow we will vote on trust. Simply and clearly, this is nothing more than that. But it is only natural for the opposition to propose whether new government negotiations should not be launched immediately. That is the task of the opposition, to put forward alternatives, to question them. But, yes, we need to focus on this basic issue now. When we look at history, there have been many major changes on the basis of government and yet, calmly, we have moved forward according to the marching order we have in the constitution, and that is what we have to do now. ♪ When we talk ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u132	Mr President! I will come back to this situation from a democratic point of view. So this is where the Prime Minister separated one government party from the government and thereby lost a majority in Parliament. After that, the Prime Minister took a new group, which will become a new party of government without new elections and without new government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u135	I would like to give Mr Heinäluoma the floor for a reply. Following Mr Töll's speech and further to Mrs Packalén and, if the Prime Minister agrees, to Mr Lindström, the Prime Minister may then take the floor after Mr Lindström. Here we go with this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u136	Mr President! Indeed, if the government loses the majority of the parliament and, in fact, two of the government parties throw out a third, then it is quite a fundamental change. If it had gone as it was written in the Constitution and held negotiations with government groups and parliamentary groups then this would have been transparent, who would have thought what, and would not have to read in the papers the suspicions that this was a covered table, and believe what one journalist told a week before the meeting of the Finns of Fundamental Rights. Here come the suspicions. You corrected and forgot the purpose of the constitution so that everyone can see what is happening in the formation of a government. Now you have a government of adoptive boys, to which you have taken by grace those whom you have considered acceptable, so that you can continue with the policy which you seem to wish to pursue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u137	Mr President! I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Orvo when you first heard about this kind of movement. I understand that it is only after this real number has been found out, but when have you or the people who are close to you heard, when has your ears been heard for the first time that this kind of movement is taking place and this sort of mass escape then is? Has it been before? It has been said that on Tuesday you heard, but have you heard on Saturday or possibly before that election? If you can give an answer to this, it would probably clarify this issue for the whole population.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u138	Minister Lindström, three minutes from the speaking room.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u139	Mr President! I'm speaking for myself right now because I can't go inside the head of anyone else. Let us start with this observation by Mr Modig. Thank you for the interest in my blog. That blog was targeted directly at these immigration-critical, anti-immigrants, people from Asiaforum. I regret that I may not have used enough quotes, but it was aimed at them. It was also a will for the Finnish People’s Party about the thoughts, feelings that arose for me during that weekend, and that is the essence of the blog. It was kind of my goodbye. It was also titled "Farewell to the Finnish People's Party". For 11 to 12 years I have been a member of the party, and on Saturday I knew that I would no longer be a member of the party. On Saturday, I made that decision of my own when I saw what happened there. This is my interpretation of what has happened once again, and I do not blame anyone. Everyone makes their own decisions, but in my own mind I ended up making the decision that I am leaving the parliamentary group anyway, whether or not anyone came along. This is the decision I made. And the reason was what happened there, without identifying those events. During the long spring I knew that there were tensions here: we in the parliamentary group have had tensions that were said to exist during the last parliamentary term, but not even close to that of this parliamentary term. The group had been divided before that meeting. This is my own interpretation of the matter once again. That's when I've been thinking about my own political future all the time. I would have had any solution, but not that I stayed in the Parliament Group, i.e. in the Finnish Parliament Group, after what happened this weekend. There was a speech here saying that it is enough for us to be ministers, that there is as much decision-making power as Finland in the EU, that there is babbling nonsense and that we are being politely obeyed. We have a government program that we obey. And I can assure you that if we start to talk about it, we still have an opinion, and we will stand by that opinion. We are committed to the Government Programme, not to any extra invasions, and that is why I dare defend the Government Programme, because that is what we are committed to. We did not want a government crisis, that is why we made this tough decision, and I know for myself what this means for my political future, and I take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u140	Prime Minister, from the scene, 1 minute should be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u141	Mr President! The situation has been closely monitored by colleagues in Europe, and I have discussed it with many people, including President Macron. European colleagues have become mainly grateful for the way in which value issues have been resolved. [ Hustles from the left] Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Rinne, first of all who was consulted: I understand that you have received this statement by Mr Hidén and Mr Tiitinen, which I referred to at the time at the Summer Bank. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice also made a memo on the situation, by Chief of Staff Sami Manninen. I've never met a lawyer who said this was going in the wrong order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u146	Mr President! This is now a question of the order in which matters are dealt with, whether parliamentaryism is given priority, and you could undoubtedly have done so if you wanted to. As far as these values are concerned, Prime Minister, it is clear that you said that the difference in values with the Finns led by Jussi Halla-aho is too big. It was the right decision to decide on cooperation, but now the question is whether Parliament and the citizens will be able to assess the value base of these take-off boys, the new option. How do they view European cooperation, how do they view membership of the European Union, humanity, transparency and all these other Western principles? For this purpose, the clearest, most transparent and most respectful of parliamentaryism would have been to take a round, and it would have strengthened your position as well. Now the government continues to weaken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u147	Minister Orpo is waiting for a reply, but before that we have Mr Yanar, Mrs Saarakkala, Mr Rantakangas, Mr Henriksson and Mr Henriksson. Uottila in this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u148	Mr President! Over the years, I personally have received many racist comments through the members of the Basic Finns. Soini and his partners were opportunistically exploiting racism for years, and this would not have changed in any way if Sampo Terho had won the presidency race a few weeks ago. This extreme wing only became a problem when the Minister-Audits were getting out of hand. The same applies to the assembly and the centre: you were happy in the government to draw up the Halla-aho's asylum policies, i.e. the Hakkarainen and Huhtasaari were not a problem for you either. I repeat, Mr. Aalto's representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u149	Mr President! President of the Republic Niinistö has stated that immigration is allowed to be criticised if they wish. This is still allowed in this country, and I also feel that it will continue to be allowed. It is clear that mistakes have probably been made in the past in the True Finns when there has been no hive separation between these particular individuals who have been guilty of hate speech, among other things. At the time, I'm sure the party leaders — who once stated that if any of the people of Peru were convicted of racism, they should have been kicked out, but not put out, and now they took over the party. The situation is that Jussi Halla-aho and Teuvo Hakkarainen are co-chaired in the new leadership of the Finns of Finland, both of whom are convicted of inciting against the people. Huhtasaari and Eerola also support this activity. I cannot see for myself any connection with the Presidium that the Finns used to have,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u150	President! I must thank the Prime Minister, Minister Orpo and Minister Terho. Fatherland's privilege won. In Finland, a functional majority government will continue to be able to take decisions that are reflected in economic growth, better employment and strengthening Finland’s competitiveness. The main opposition was, in turn, the new elections. What would that have meant? This would have meant an increase in uncertainty in the economy and would not have been in the interests of the country. I have to ask the SDP: Would you have liked to have played a play that you were brought into government negotiations when you said in advance that you would only go through the new elections to the government negotiations, only through the new elections? Here you are now trying to make black and white about the fact that we should have started the process. The Prime Minister showed leadership. Since there was no constitutional need for any other action, a majority government was set up to implement a good policy for the country. Of course, you're upset that this play didn't last much longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u152	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Rantakanka that we here in the SDP respect not only the letter of the Constitution but also its spirit and we are not talking about forming a government as a play. It is a process of democratic parliamentaryism. The Constitution, which has been adopted with a broad consensus, assumes that it is the way in which a functioning majority government is formed, and it is also the way in which citizens can judge the differences in values between different government parties and then draw conclusions as to whether this will work and then, in the forthcoming elections, say their own words. Prime Minister Sipilä, when you emphasise that there is no difference in value with the new option now there, I would like to ask: Has Minister Terho given up his aim to hold a referendum on the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u153	It is precisely to this stage of the debate that Mr Vanhanen is still at.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u154	Mr President! In this Parliament, the most fundamental interpretation of the formation of a government will take place tomorrow. Parliament will vote on the trust of the government, and that is the last word, and it will take precedence over the statement made by Mr Hidén. It's democracy, that's how it works. After all, the essence of parliamentaryism is that the government must enjoy the confidence of Parliament. Many times that government may even be a minority government, but nevertheless it must enjoy the confidence of Parliament. In this system — and this is what we have done through the constitutional changes — the forming of a government has a strong role to play and the Prime Minister must also play a strong role, and the Prime Minister has played that role. Yes, I remember the government negotiations in which the Social Democrats have formed the government. There has also been a kind of play, and for the last two times since the election, the centre was the second largest party, but we were ignored. We don't really know why it happened, but we didn't complain about it. It was the vote of confidence of the constituent of the government and then of the majority of the parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u155	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, this is exactly what we are talking about, that now the citizens are not able to see the reasons for the choices made, because the options are not visible, but have been played with this kind of hiic acid player. When the Prime Minister loses the support of the majority of the Parliament — as he did when he and Minister Orpo made the decision to throw the Finns on the ground
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u158	Yet again, Mr Vanhanen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u159	We will decide tomorrow whether or not the government lost parliamentary trust, and I dare predict that it did not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u160	Now is the highest time to give the floor to Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u161	Mr President! Mr Rinne asked for this phrase to be clarified 'became and strengthened'. With the word 'confirmed', I would point out that they made a decision — I am not referring to any fixing of the amount, but to a decision. So this new option group in my world was born on Tuesday sometimes around noon. Until then, it was about growing rumours that I had not even heard of before the conference this weekend. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u162	Mr President! Just as Minister Orpo has just said, what matters is what you say and what you say and what you write. Abundant ten days ago Minister Soini wrote in his blog that he could never even think of defecting from his own party. I think it matters that ten days after that he changes his position and that is exactly what he is doing: he is defecting from his own party because he wants to continue as Foreign Minister. At the same time, he will do a good service to both the centre and the assembly, which will have the opportunity to maintain their present composition. But when it comes to values, then, Prime Minister, is this such an act that you, too, in your world of values, are in favour of doing something like this first and speaking another and then doing another?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u163	Mr President! The worst thing is that with this worthless play you, Mr Orpo and Mr Sipilä, will secure the continuation of an unjust policy with the help of a team of locusts. The key is the social welfare reform, which has been referred to here by representatives Andersson and Aalto. We cannot talk here about expert hearings, quote the hearings that have been heard from the various committees, but even in public, countless experts have said that this popular freedom of choice model is taking Finnish social and health policy to disaster, the loss of billions financially, the increase in inequality, the increase in citizens' responsibilities, the increase in payments and so on. That is what this is all about. Are you going to take a new course with the warlocks?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u164	Mr President! The events of the week ago are confusing here in the Chamber, but they also confuse the citizens. During my 20-year parliamentary career, I myself do not remember so much on that street, on the train, in the store spontaneous contacts and discussions that what is going on there. I think that, in this situation, we parliamentarians have a particularly important responsibility to maintain public confidence in the political system. There have been some pretty high-profile accusations here, and there are certainly grounds for them, but I think we should be quite careful not to pick up political quick wins when, in the long run, we eat citizens' confidence in the whole of Parliament. My concern is, above all, that what is now the capacity of this narrowed government base to move forward with such critical measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u165	Mr President! In the end, when it comes to whether the government of our country can continue, we certainly need to look at this from the angle of income that has been achieved. The direction of the economy has changed, employment has improved, unemployment is falling, the economy is growing. So now that we are talking about the continuation of the government and tomorrow we are voting on it, I am sure that the prolonged, even months of government crisis would have been a poison to this changed economic direction and economic growth. A look should now be at the situation in our country instead of arguing and arguing. And I would like to ask you, Minister Orpo: could you please go over the way these two coming economic years look at this point when the government has turned the page to the latter half?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u167	Mr President! This is a very important issue. Many people have been in contact with me for voting for representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, and I have been commended for standing here. I wasn't a Halla-Ahoan, I wasn't a Solonian, I wasn't anything, I was running. I was not told anything about it, and now I appear to some people to be a senseless person who may not be allowed to speak here, but I am. I still ask where this June 5th rumor: Sampo Terho, you were on Politics Radio, and you were asked about the rumor that 20 people would defect from the parliamentary group and stay on the board. You replied: It is a completely childish claim. This is not going to happen. We'll continue to be united. And you said that Soini said the same thing. Now I'm supposed to trust you as a minister? You also decide on my tax money, my voters' tax money. You've been my friend. Tell me the truth. How can this be true that 20 eventually defected? How can this be true?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u169	Mr President! A lot has been said about the future of the government. I personally see the situation as being that the government crisis and any new elections would have been the worst option for this situation, where Finland is at present. Economic growth has now been achieved, employment has improved. All these things would have just gotten harder. After all, no change has been promised to the Government Programme; the present Government will continue with the good programme that was written two years ago. There has been a call for a turnaround in order to bring about reforms. I must say, however, that there are, however, 200 satisfied Members of Parliament in this Chamber when there were no new elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u170	Mr President! Colorful lines have been used here that may be suitable for the summer theater’s style, but we are at the forefront of a serious matter. This process has weakened Finnish democracy and weakened citizens' confidence in decision-making. If and when disappointment erupts in such a way that even fewer people feel the need to participate in society, it will also increase inequality in Finland. Who believes the explanation that until the second weekend, ministers Sipilä, Orpo and especially My chords woke up to find that there is a value problem among the True Finns? Have you really been deaf and blind to all the evidence in which representatives of the government party participate in extreme right-wing demonstrations, Nazi-spirited events? Have you been deaf and blind to racial teachers and threats of violence? Has Halla-aho's programme been completely unknown to you when he led his party to the success of the European elections and then to this jam pole? Forgive me, Minister Orpo, but your valuable speech does not believe Erkki — I dare even say it on behalf of the Judge-in-Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u171	Mr President! It is good that the vote on the trust of the government will take place tomorrow, and it is true that the confidence of Parliament is what the government needs. But we also need the confidence of Finns in politics and policy making in this country. That is why it would have taken the open process, the resignation of the government, the election of a new government Confessor, and then the formation of a new government base. Perhaps that would be the same thing that is now sitting there, and the programme would perhaps be the same, but then we would have made the transparency that we always emphasise. And it brings confidence in politics. For we know how citizens feel that politicians are only self-interesters, players. And now, unfortunately, that is exactly what all of this looks like. An open, transparent process would therefore have been necessary. I regret that this did not happen on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u172	Mr President! I myself was not at the Summer Beach when the government parties there were your guests. I was there to see the members of the True Finns. I was also nominated for the second chairman of the Finns Party, and just as Mr Meri said and wondered how this happened, I also wonder that none of the women who were nominated were eligible for this new UV group. This process has been incomprehensible. It has made me wonder what kind of straining, what kind of action this policy actually is. It has been well spoken here that you 20 representatives are for the Fatherland. What about the rest of us? We have been here snooping about the government's proposals. We've been standing in a row as vertebrates. While I was going around the field, I told the members that we needed clarity. There has been a social reform here, and it is likely that there will be a brake. I asked Minister Pirkko Mattila how to proceed, and you asked me if we were going to do some explaining together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u173	Mr President! We've been talking about this play and the script and the summer theater. I must say that I am somewhat flattered by the fact that I am listening to this all-powerful government of the opposition, as if it were indeed possible to determine in advance what is going to happen in the future. But I must say that the ministers Orpo and Sipilä and the government are very capable anyway. In an impossible situation, according to our country's economy, they have achieved growth in the global economy, conditions are improving here, employment is rising and so on. It's going to get a lot better, or it's going a lot better now than it was before. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u174	Mr President! In this very special situation, it is very important that a functioning government is maintained in the country, which will indeed continue with the government programme agreed a few years ago. There is obviously a need for stability. It is essential to know that the government is able to make and move forward in these big projects and without it continuing uncertainty as well. That is why it is, you can say, the victory of the Finns, that this story, which was not particularly scripted in any way, ended this way. In the future and after the vote tomorrow, of course, it would be desirable for these two groups to clarify their relations in the future in a place other than this Chamber. This hall is not the place where two groups fight each other, but our mission is something entirely different.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u175	Ladies and gentlemen! In a few minutes, this conversation has been going on for three hours. I will now give four more replies and then at least two ministers from here on the stand. Well, then, if the most necessary thing is to continue the debate for a while, let's take a look at it. As a general rule, we shall move on to the actual speeches that have been requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u176	Mr President! I, too, find it very sad and confusing to listen to this debate in this Chamber today, because the comments made by several representatives have been people, have been punctuation and have also been degrading to democracy. I wonder what the citizens who are now watching this plenary and listening to us will think of the elected representatives of the highest decision-making power in this country. I wonder how many people think that they will never vote again because they have lost confidence in democracy and democracy. Prime Minister! How do we restore the people's faith in Parliament and restore faith in democracy after this farce, this play? We would have liked this to have been done, that the resignation request should have been submitted and that genuine negotiations, discussions should have been held.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u177	And so there are the replies to Mr Östman, Mr Nylund and Mr Kankaanniemi, and then to Mr Orpo and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u178	Mr President! The Prime Minister answered a question from a representative on EU integration: 'Does the representative mean that integration will deepen if we move towards a common defence policy and possibly a common defence?' The majority of Finnish mepes voted in favour of the federalist proposals by means of leaps in the European Union at the last Strasbourg session in February. With the resolutions adopted, Parliament wants to direct the future of the EU, and according to them, among other things, the Council would move completely to qualified majority voting and the unanimity of the Member States would no longer be required, inter alia, in the multi-annual financial frameworks. This and the other six proposals on the list lead the Union towards the federal state, increase the net contribution of Finland and are not only unfavourable to Finland, but also contrary to what the government parties have implied to voters. I would like to hear a little more about this from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u179	Reply, Mr Nylund.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u180	Mr President, värderade talman! Statsministerns beslut att fortsätta regeringsbasen med samlingspartiet, center och Nytt alternativ är en pragmatisk, politisk lösning som givetvis tryggar landskaps- och vårdreformens framtid. Men, lösningen är mycket märklig och enastående i sitt slag. En riksdagsgrupp som inte har mätt sitt förtroende bland finländarna via ricksdagsval och som saknar programme har hela fem ministrar. Värderade statsminister, det ox stärker inte democracy eller finländarnas tilltro till regeringen och politiken som helst, tvärtom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u181	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you called me last Monday, a week ago, at 4:51 p.m. I was then chairman of the parliamentary group of the Government Party. You asked me when we had a meeting. Yeah. Would you not have had the opportunity, in the interests of transparency and honesty, to tell the chairman of the parliamentary group of the Government Party what is being planned and done? Why didn't you tell me openly and honestly what you knew then? In the next call — or there were a lot of calls, but then on Wednesday morning a group leader, Elo, called me — I asked why I was not told, as chairman of the parliamentary group, about such an operation when my group was split up and divided up, why it could not be told to me before the papers were brought forward. He said he couldn't trust you. Is that what this would tell me about trust so that I could vote for trust in you?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u182	Now I will give the answers to the ministers in order: first to the Prime Minister, and I was a little unclear as to who else had asked in the front seat. — Well, at least that's all the front-seat ministers. — Now the Prime Minister and then two or three other ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u183	Mr President! This is certainly not a question of forming a government. The same government and the same cabinet continue. It is a question of whether the current government can continue, and that is what Parliament will vote on tomorrow. The parliamentary basis of the government has changed and, as was the case in that opinion, it would not be necessary to issue a communication at the time, but, while respecting parliamentaryism, we wanted this communication debate to take place and immediately measure this new situation resulting from the change in the narrowed parliamentary base. Of course, there was an oral answer from the legal scholars before the decision was taken. They promised the same in writing, and it was received at 7 p.m. on Tuesday. Well, how do we restore faith in Parliament and decision-making? Firstly, in such a way that we do not build and strengthen the fictional stories that have been born here and build our politics around them, so that we speak with dignity here about each other, so that we respect each other here in this Chamber and also each other's values. It is my job to ensure that there is a government that is constantly functioning. There is still one in Finland. If we gain parliamentary confidence tomorrow, the government will continue to implement its current programme with its current ministerial body. It is still not a problem-free one. We're in the middle of a lot of things in this Parliament. We have a major social reform which will certainly still have questions to resolve. We must continue to take action to increase the employment rate. Tomorrow we will be voting on the continuity of the government with all the problems and unfinished business that come to light. Everything is based on a good government programme that we are all committed to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u184	On site for ministers for minutes. — — — — First up, Secretary Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u185	Mr President! Many times have been asked what is being done in this immigration policy. We are doing it together here with the Members of Parliament. The Government Programme gives us that road map, but at the moment we are working on a joint package between the Member States in the European Union, so that we can manage immigration. At the moment, although it is peaceful in Finland, very many other countries do not. That is why we must work together on a good immigration policy, just as the government programme has outlined, but also jointly on the European arenas and on the tables of the European Union. That is what we are doing together, among other things, through the CEAS package that we have here in Parliament at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u186	Mr President! In this last minute's speech, I would like to respond specifically to Mrs Mere, who asked for this. When we talked about this on the radio, all I know about the origin of that rumor is that I believe it started out in the West Media. According to this rumor, we were also asked this question at the time. Well, as you heard from the answer, I was very disbelieved about the rumor. I think it also shows that I would have put my words differently if I had really imagined that this would happen in the end. So there was no plan in that respect either, because you can see now how badly I responded to it at that point, thinking about what really happened later. True, it must be remembered that after all, more than 20 True Finns left, and so did many other rumours that no one remembers now, because they did not happen to be right. Nor did we have a name or programmes, as has been revealed. I do not think that this shows any planning either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u189	Mr President! In my view, it is important that this issue be addressed. This is a very exceptional situation in Finnish political history, and yet the end result is that we are able to form a majority of the Members of Parliament who are sitting, and that is probably essential. What we should do now is look ahead. We certainly have a different view with the opposition as to how good a government programme is, but the government and this base are committed to moving it forward, making major structural reforms forward, making determined employment and economic policies, breaking debt, helping as many people as possible from unemployment to employment, turning the line of saving and reducing it for years so that we can look more to the future and create the confidence and hope of the future for as many Finns as possible. That's the job we want to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u190	Mr President! I wanted to comment briefly on the question of legality control and constitutional interpretation and this credibility of democracy. In my opinion, one of the features that emerged strongly in this debate was that there was a great deal of reference to press data, social media data or some other fully surface data. I can assure you that if we get a proper look at these issues, as the government has done on a very broad front here, we will have proper judicial control in this country, in accordance with the Constitution. The opposition would have been informed if, for example, they had asked about the Ministry of Justice. The constitutional analysis was carried out with great care. This too would have been the subject of information, and it has been subsequently provided with information on how this has been done. There's no confusion. The credibility of the democratic system is the responsibility of all of us, including the opposition parties, in that sense, now that there have been quite a number of appeals here in the press and in the headlines that this has been the case, I believe that this debate has now taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u191	I would like to give another six to seven replies, which have been eagerly asked for, and then my motion is to move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u192	Mr President! I respect all 200 Members of Parliament, and in that spirit I would like to correct Mr Kankaanniemi's argument. When I talked to him, I said that as a responsible group leader he should have informed the group about this situation, and it is natural that it would not have worked from the point of view of our situation, prompt action will save the Finnish Government's ability to act and the good government that has now continued its work. I did not doubt his honor, his reliability, but I specifically believed that he was trustworthy and honorable in his actions. There's a suspect here. Does this new group have any values? Of course we'll have a party program later, but we already told the public today about these values. One that I would particularly like to highlight as a coherent line from Veikko Vennamo: every human being, every life is valuable. This is a significant value.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u193	Mr President! Congressman Elo, stay in the truth. I asked you quite clearly why I was not informed when I was the chairman of the parliamentary group. If you had told me and asked not to be told, I would have kept my promise. Among other things, I was in Aho’s government, where huge decisions were made. I kept those promises of secrecy, and I can do that today too. You betrayed me and then you asked me to join the 20s. You can't start by pulling under the rug, embarrassing and mocking and then asking if you'll come with us. I'm on a different sandbox than you are. You were blinded by power, I was not blinded by power. I am in this party, to which the people have chosen, and this party's programme goals did not change a word in Jyväskylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u194	Mr President! This has now been asked a few times, which has now changed in this solution, which has been made, and I thought this morning that nothing changed, that the government will continue in exactly the same line as it has now been: the people will be squatted and friend capitalism will flourish. On this point, I still agree, but the following things have happened during the day, have changed a lot. Traditionally, the political field is divided into three groups: blue, green and red. During the day, the new option has called the Blue Future. I think it is a clear reference, a clear step in a certain direction. When Soini once said that the Finns are a Labour Party without socialism, now they are certainly a Party without workers. Now there's been a huge increase in the blue spectrum in the party. Most of all, I was amazed that when you write about the blue future.com, it leads to the collection pages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u195	Reply, representative Karimäki. — — — — I would like to say here that, in addition to him, I have indicated the replies to the representatives of Heikkinen, Andersson, Suutari and Immonen. I don't know if these could be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u196	Mr President! The fact that the government in this situation continues as other men and women is questionable in terms of democracy and democracy. The government's line on immigration and refugee policy has been very snooping, and now you say, however, that the government's value base has changed. The Sipilä government has weakened family reunification for refugees, which means that women and children in need are not safe. On humanitarian grounds, asylum is no longer available, and people are also being returned to dangerous Afghanistan and Iraq. Many Members have asked how your immigration policy will change in this changed basis of values. Mr Risikko has already told me what kind of immigration policy measures are going to take, and I would like to clarify the government's line on these. Can you return to these previously inhumane decisions on a changed basis of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u197	Mr President! The opposition has repeated here that democracy should not be undermined, but what else has the SDP, the Greens and the Left Alliance in particular done in this situation? Parliament's dispersal elections are not a matter of opinion, but they are demanded by the three opposition parties. There has been an interpretation from constitutional experts that there has been no need for the government to resign. I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister for his determined action, which enabled the government to restore its ability to act quickly. Among other things, Mr Heinäluoma has been particularly disappointed in this debate that the Prime Minister has found this solution to the government crisis. That shows that it is more important for you to have a populist racket about who did what he did and when he did it. Again, the most important thing for Finland is that the solution was found soon and the work to put Finland in good shape continued to be delayed. Finland needs structural reforms and a functioning government committed to their implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u198	Mr President! The legality of the various methods has been discussed here, but I believe that, above all, it is a question of what approach would be the most justified and the best from the point of view of transparency, democracy and parliamentarianism. There are also legal scholars who said that disbanding the government would have been desirable, although it was not necessary. Mr Orpo spoke here earlier about the values of Jussi Halla-aho, and I must say that we are well aware of that in the opposition. We have warned the government, among other things, at the time when you allowed him to be involved in the government's asylum policy programme. But the key question here is the value base of this new group and the kind of policy the government is now going to take with this new party group. The only answer given here is that the government programme is adhered to. I do not think that this is enough when everyone knows that the government programme cannot agree on positions on all the political issues that are being addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u199	Mr President! The past few weeks of politics prove that in order to gain power with extremists and extremists, the political party should not play. The moderate wing of the True Finns had to discern and even resign from their own party. As a result of this incident, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: has there been an in-depth debate within the government on extremism, human dignity, EU attitude and immigration, and hate speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u200	Mr President! After all, this whole play was an outrageous and obscene one, and these explanations from the ministers do not convince me at all, not at all. As we have read in the media in recent days, the present new defector regime has been groomed together through long-standing machinations, intrigue and outright deception. According to the media, ministers Sipilä, Orpo and Soini had held secret negotiations together for a month on how the government could move forward with the current composition if Jussi Halla-aho was elected as the new chairman of the Finns of Finland. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister what concrete means the government is going to use to restore public confidence in the functioning of the government and in politics in general, for you have been driving with this unscrupulous machination of yours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u201	Linguistic images go to the extremes of acceptability, I say to the representative. — Mr Jalonen, then reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u202	Mr President! Indeed, there has been an announcement here about how to restore public confidence in politics. I am sorry to note that for some reason a culture of debate has emerged in this Chamber, which is more like an accurate debate than an authoritative debate in this House. I very much hope that the Bureau will pay attention to this when moving to the right big room. There has been much talk of democracy here. Personally, I have been commended for standing on the basis of the wide-ranging promises that the Finns of Finland once made in the elections, and for not being captured by a single-line party. Prime Minister Sipilä, is it true that this solution, although we had no guarantee that it would be resolved, enabled you to have options to continue with the good government policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u203	I have also spoken to the representatives of Viitanen, Oinonen, Kärnä and Kymäläinen. If these were enough, then we'd move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u204	Mr President! Prime Minister, has it not become clear, at the latest since this debate, that it would have been much wiser to choose a different course of action? After all, this certainly did not make anyone any more insanely pious as to what has happened in the scenes, what kind of power play has taken place overall, which is the value base of the new government base. I am sure that the public will be very confused about this debate, and these questions will now and in the future be repeated there in Tammelantori with people and citizens, unfortunately. It looks like the situation here when you talk about your values or your policies or your explanations that one says 'yes' and the other says 'no' and the third says 'grandfather pants'. That's what this has sounded like, and that's why I don't understand why you're choosing this path. There has been a big power play here, there has been a desire to hold ministerial seats and, on the other hand, there has been a desire to continue this cold right-wing political line that discriminates against citizens, tax cuts are given to the good people,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u205	Mr President! In countless speeches, the opposition has asked the Prime Minister to explain when you have drawn up a plan to introduce a new option to the government. Mr Prime Minister, you have answered this question countless times. I would suggest that you use a pencil to draw the famous poop there and show it to these opposition representatives. That, then, if only you could get to the point at which you made this final decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u206	Mr President! The old saying says that politics is an art of opportunity, and it must be said that in this very difficult situation it was now possible to draw the most beautiful work that ensured the continuation of the government, ensuring stability and ensuring predictability in Finnish politics. I would like to express to the opposition the hope that you will not be feeding these conspiracy theories and false opinions here, or that you will at all give the citizens the impression that the new elections were the preferred option. They are not the preferred option and their framework comes from the Constitution. I would also like to ask the opposition: is it quite true that you would have liked to have given 100-year-old Finland a new election as a birthday present?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u207	Mr President! Here a number of representatives have said how fundamental the question is whether the government will enjoy the confidence of Parliament and it will be measured tomorrow. But, of course, the most important question is whether Parliament and parliamentarianism enjoy the confidence of the citizens and whether people understand what really happened last week. I believe that in some way this whole political debate, which, in fact, has appealed to quite unnecessarily much press information, social media and sources that would not have to be used, could have been avoided by acting a little more in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. In practice, the government would have resigned when last Monday the Finns of Halla-aho were found to be an impossible partner at the mouth of two government parties and a minority government situation arose for a moment. In this situation, rapid government negotiations could have taken place. The end of the flood could have been like the present one and the solution would certainly have been effective, because there was obviously no big capacity and desire for change programmedly. But as a breakup
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u208	Mr President! I appreciate the fact that the government can make difficult decisions these days. As far as the Jyväskylä Party Assembly is concerned, everyone there can think about what it was. But at least then I was no longer the next Sunday, so the thoughts were very similar to those of Minister Lindström. When Halla-aho was elected as President and negotiated with the Centre and the Coalition Party, it did not happen. When our constituents wanted us to continue in the government, we separated 20 MPs who were involved in the government base that was formed after the 2015 parliamentary elections. We want to be in this crowd. There's no need for a bigger episode. And I am grateful that economic growth is growing, as an entrepreneur it is grateful that entrepreneurship has been promoted, as well as jobs have become more, and this kind of stable security seems to be going forward in Finland. I myself am critical of immigration, but alongside it I have, for example, the usual
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u209	Congressman, I think it's time we had a good run. — Mr Hakkarainen, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u210	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk about values here. I am not going to fencing between the people of Peru and the new bloc, but the values that the Orphan hand at heart spoke of there. Last season, the Left Alliance and the Greens were good enough to be a government partner, and there may even be Stalinists in history. I was convicted of history. Unfortunately, the Orphan is not here, but if history tells us that people are starting to live here, how did the Left Alliance and the Greens, who supposedly have this kind of background, become government partners? How much more violent was my crime that I committed? I wrote it on a blog that I rewritten, and I added four letters: "Many." There was no charge. It gave me a fine that I paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u211	Mr President! In fact, I will answer when Mr Karimäki asked a good question and asked, for example, about the category of humanitarian protection that has been removed from Finnish legislation in return policy and immigration policy. It has nothing to do with the fact that it does not exist in other European countries either. Now we are trying to have common practices in immigration policy, because it is a common will for all the countries of Europe. Of course it still has to be sanded, because there is a lot of detail that still needs to be negotiated, but the starting point is that no country would be more attractive than another country, because it would be the wrong signal. But then about what you're saying about these dangerous countries: After all, we in that European arena have hoped that this so-called geography would be available to us all, and that is what we really do have. The Finnish Immigration Service uses a geodata unit. Yes, every application will see if it is possible to return to this region, and last week, for example, the Migri, the Finnish Immigration Service, has just come to an assessment of which country and region cannot be returned. There's a clear list of that. There are also areas in Afghanistan where you can return — the so-called internal escape — but then there are many, many areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u212	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u213	Mr President! We are discussing the Government's communication on the change in the composition of the Board of Directors in an interesting situation. The long-awaited economic and employment turn has taken place. Trust in the future is coming back. On the other hand, many economic experts from home and abroad rightly warn that the major challenges facing the Finnish economy await a solution. With the now projected economic growth The employment targets set for the Sipilä government and the targets for ending the indebtedness of public finances will not be met. In other words, the work to save Finland's welfare society is still far from complete. In the middle of all this a week ago, it would have been very bad for the government to break down. This would have been a poison, especially for today's fragile economic growth, when external economic assessors and investors would have begun to doubt the stability of Finland's political system. Now this option could be avoided. Despite the barking of the opposition, the Government Programme agreed in 2015 includes all the measures that, if fully implemented, will enable the sustainable securing of the funding base of the welfare state. It is now good that this programme will be implemented systematically until the next elections. Mr President! There has been a debate in the public and today in the Chamber about how the government crisis that took place last Monday was resolved. Speculations have been wild in some places, but my own experience of what happened is much more boring. It has basically been a matter of values and trust. Just as Mr Jokinen, who spoke in the group, said, it is critical that those who work with us share our ideas of justice, equality, dignity and heart education. We could no longer count on the fact that, in a situation like that, these values would have lasted as good as bad times. Another concern for us has been the international role of Finland and, in particular, the role of Finland in a rapidly developing Europe. EU membership is the strongest anchor for us, with which we also, in terms of security policy, attach ourselves to the Western community of values that is important to us. And now that the EU is taking rapid steps also in the area of security and defence, we need a government whose every party supports Finland's active role in these discussions. Mr President! Last week's political turbulence can hardly give anyone full styling points. There's been a lot of speed and dangerous situations. However, the outcome, namely the safeguarding of the stability of the political system, is the most important one, and that is where our parliamentary system once again showed its strength: in a tight place, we will be able to deal with unexpected crises. It is one of Finland’s biggest strengths. With these words, I support the reformed government and its good programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u214	Mr President! As a result of the election of the National Party of Finland, Finland went into a government crisis last week, when Prime Minister Sipilä and the Minister of Finance Orpo, as well as the parliamentary groups of the Centre Party and the National Coalition Party, stated that the Finnish Government was no longer the same party as it was at the time of the meeting. The True Finns had changed irreversibly. As a person in the Finns Party since 2000, I sign the analysis of the above-mentioned entities. It's the same as mine. Prime Minister Sipilä's comparison of rubber bands in public is particularly fitting. After the election of the party meeting, the rubber band with the Finns on the board would have been broken before or later. Finland cannot take that risk, because we need stability, predictability and ability to act in the current turmoil in the world. It is important for the future and the economy of Finns. Soon, ten years of recession will be overturned by the decisive action of today’s government. We cannot go to risk a promising development by driving us into the premature parliamentary elections in Finland, which would have been very likely if the Finns of Finland had not been separated from the new and responsible parliamentary group that supports the Government and influences the Government by the New Alternative. A helping hand from Rkp and Christian Democrats to the centre and the assembly would have led to the opening of a good government programme, and in practice the government would have had only 100 representatives behind it, that is, the government would not have been able to function. There would therefore have been a high probability of premature elections under electoral law with less than three months' notice, in which, in the current situation, the Greens, in particular, would almost certainly have become a government party to deal with immigration policy, among other things. Only the creation of the New Option Group prevented this threatening situation from becoming a reality. For that reason, as well as due to differences in values and practices, I am an independent MP in this New Option Group. Mr President! Government policy cannot be done with an attitude in which one leg gropes on the base of the opposition and the other foot skates on the board. Finland needs constructive reforms, and they cannot be taken through by playing the mouth and circus or kicking partners to the ankles. Government cooperation has not been easy, but I will stick to what I finally decided after a hard jacob wrestling in the autumn of 2015. I will stand behind this government until the end. When you all alone look the truth in the eye and ask yourself the essential questions, you learn a lot about it. So I'm sure of what I've come up with now. Once earlier, as early as autumn 2015, I was involved in saving government cooperation when difficult social negotiations reached a dead end and the government was about to collapse. That experience may still be needed. Mr President! I have a political understanding of all current parliamentarians. Sometimes it just happens that we disagree and end up on different sides. That's normal politics. You can't compare politics to anything else. Policy is a continuous choice, and the key to policy is to perceive alternatives. It's in political DNA. Policy must be able to react to changing situations and be able to cooperate and refine. A return to a time where politics is unaltered and stone-cracked doctrines will no longer exist in the era of the modern market economy. Politics is not a religion in which doctrine is specific and unchangeable. I'm glad I'm not the same political snothead as I was when I was in my 20s. It is essential for a politician to be able to grow up as a person, even though some voters expect unchangeableness. I have grown from young to adult as part of basic Finnish activity, but on June 10, 2017, I realized that I would have fallen back into recession towards a 20-year-old radical [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u215	Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the speeches that have been made in advance, the limit is 5 minutes for the length of the speech, and for those who have not been asked in advance, the recommendation has been said 5 minutes. — Now Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u216	Mr President! Over the past week, we have seen a worthless play written by Soini, Sipilä and Orpo. In it, the government was rescued from the crisis with questionable maneuvers. This play has weakened the already weak appreciation of the people for politics and politicians. The political game, the groping and the self-interest are the factors that the public dislike in politics, and this is what the government has been doing over the last few days. Instead of being embarrassed at all, a lot of people are happy about their gambling. Mr President! Just a week ago on Monday, the leaders of the government Sipilä and Orpo spoke beautifully of values. They spoke of the Western concept of human beings, human rights and the rule of law, the indivisible dignity of all. They felt that the Finns did not share these values with their new leadership. Therefore, they could not continue government cooperation with the Finns. Nevertheless, they have to cooperate with the new parliamentary group chaired by Sampo Terho, even though Terho himself has repeatedly stated that his values or policies do not differ from those of the new Chairman of the Finns Party, Jussi Halla-aho. The talk of values has been exposed to falsity. Mr President! The government still has a chance to prove its value promise. Its current immigration and asylum policy is from the Halla-aho pen. Now Halla-aho is in the opposition and the government is no longer his hostage. Returning temporary residence permits and facilitating family reunification with Orpo and The Sipilä could show that their human rights promises are true. The new option left in the government must show that their commitment to resign from racism is also reflected in practice. In the old True Finns, despite promises, racism was ignored. All parties must be affected by zero-tolerance racism. In politics, words are deeds. All racist writings and speeches must be addressed. Racism must not be accepted by any party in any form whatsoever. Mr President! Five ministers have a parliamentary group with no party or party programme — who do they represent, what is their political line? So far, all we know is that they are committed to a government programme, a government programme that has agreed on painful cuts for the weakest, the unemployed, the sick, the students. In his speeches, the new option has stressed that it is on the side of a small person and that it wants to create hope. At the same time, they want to commit themselves to a government that, with its cuts, has taken away the last hope of many poor people. Mr President! In this play, one act was seen when Prime Minister Sipilä made a U-turn on his way to the President's office to deliver a government notice of resignation. Admittedly, such a display increases the dramatic elements, but it does not increase the credibility of politics. The process should have been carried through, in accordance with the Constitution, by breaking up the government, by appointing a Government Confessor, by conducting negotiations and, at the end of the negotiations, by setting up a new government. The result would probably have been the same and would have been achieved on the same schedule. The difference would have been that its legal basis was certain. Shorting the loops is no credit to our democratic system. The government had consulted some legal scholars on their policies. However, we know that many constitutional scholars have said that a notice of resignation should have been submitted. It would have looked much better, but perhaps it would not have produced such a handsome drama arch. Mr President! The Prime Minister has just said in his speech that the government is committed to the rule of law. The rule of law refers to the fact that the State is organised by legal provisions and that these are respected in the activities of the various authorities of the State. The rule of law goes back to the constitutional requirement that the exercise of public authority should be based on law and that the law, including its spirit, should be strictly respected in all public activities. However, for two years this government has been trying to correct the interpretation of the Constitution. We've been looking for loopholes and where the fence is lowest. The same shortcut was seen today. Mr President! It is a common task for all of us to ensure the functioning of democracy and to ensure that the rule of law is effectively implemented. Together we should build the credibility of policy, not weaken it, as has been done in recent days. Democracy is too precious to play with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u217	Mr President! The representative Harakka put a question here: did Erkkia believe in Minister Orpo's valuable speech on Monday at the Summer Beach? I must admit, at least SpongeBob Erkki believed in it, even in public, and thanked Orpo for his powerful valuable speech. In fact, we act in government or opposition, we must appreciate it if someone really shows their values and stands behind them. Mr President! Because I publicly praised Orpo, the worse it seems to me now that the strong speech of value that I praised was in fact just a smokescreen — a fog that wanted to involve some of the old People's Party in the government as a kind aid party and some put it into the opposition. If it were EU policy and immigration policy, as Mr Sipilä and Mr Orpo, the finance minister, have said here, what will happen to them as trio minister Terho, who has repeatedly announced that he and the euro representative Halla-aho have no differences in immigration policy or in euro policy? In fact, the only difference before the party meeting was that the Trio Minister Terho called for more membership of the EU than Jussi Halla-aho. Mr President! Minister Soini spoke at the beginning of the government's jam pole. Now it seems that the jam pole does not mean that the best thing for the people is that the jam pole should be better four years later. It is a matter of personal jam poles, of sitting here in Luxembourg as a minister rather than answering critical questions from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u220	Mr President! Yes, quite colorful lines have been used here, as is the case with the summer theatre tradition, but we are at the forefront of a serious matter. This process has weakened Finnish democracy and citizens' confidence in decision-making. It is clear that few in this Chamber considered it good or desirable to change the leadership of the Finns. But I still wonder how we can at the same time praise democracy and despise democracy, how we can regard the democracy that has chosen us here as the right one, but the kind of democracy that, in our opinion, chooses the wrong people. It's an Orwellian image of democracy. You remember the flying phrase: "All are equal but one equal than the other." The new version reads: "Democracy belongs to everyone but to one more than to others." It is precisely those citizens who suspect that the elite are conspiring with one another for their interests, those who have lost faith in democracy and abstained from voting, whose anger threatens to erupt in violence, the crushing sorrow and hopelessness of Mr Sipilä, Mr Orpo and Mr Soini have now confirmed this. Politics is a dirty game, they think, where the common interest is only the common interest of the elite, where the attainment of power is the only goal. Many disappointed people have voted specifically for the Finns of Peru in 2011 and 2015, and it is now they who have been deprived of this hope. As much as I have criticized the Finns of Peru, I have at least been delighted that they have made it possible for some so-called ordinary people to be elected to this Parliament, even a few people with income levels and educational levels that correspond to the average of the citizens. The fact that some of them have been bought to support the elite, that they have no demands, no programs or goals, except for the unconditional support of this poor and painful government, is certainly a bitter piece for tens of thousands of Finns and hundreds of thousands of Finns. Gentlemen Sipilä, Orpo and Soini, if you are here to hear, you now have the responsibility of increasing inequality and weakening Finnish democracy. Who believes the explanation that only the weekend before the other weekend was Sipilä, Orpo, and especially My chords woke up to find that there is a value problem among the True Finns? Have they been blind and deaf to all the evidence in which representatives of the government parties participate in the extreme right-wing demonstration and Nazi-spirited events. Have they been blind and deaf to racial teachers and threats of violence? Has Halla-aho's programme been completely unknown to them when he led his party to the success of the European elections and also to the government's jam pole, and this group of jam poles has not resigned from this anti-humanist line? The leading figure of this party, Elo, has been working hard to defend Jussi Halla-aho's ideas at Saaforum: "One day I ended up on Halla-aho's website. I didn’t know anything about him, but I started reading the articles and felt like my eyes were open. That's what I've been thinking all along, even though the style of writing doesn't make me think of it." Second quote: "The last rivet was the charge and judgment of Halla-aho — it was proof of society's double standards and bowing down to Mecca."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u223	Mr President! In fact, words have been taken out of the left-wing opposition, as it is said that the magpie took the silver spoon out of the mouth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u226	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, each of us has received a very valuable mandate in this Chamber to use the voice of our voters, democracy. In the name of democracy, we must ask: do we really enjoy the confidence that we have been given? Have we respected and fulfilled the promises and expectations we have solemnly made in our election speeches? What will be the judgment of whom of us if we compare the balance of goals and achievements at the moment? I wish that only a few powers of attorney were still in force. It might be that if the penalty for breaking promises were to be fired, many would no longer be sitting in this Chamber. But there is no sanction for betraying promises and expectations. Only elections can measure whether we continue to enjoy the confidence of the people and whether we have succeeded in our work. The will of the people in a democratic system must be adapted and respected in all circumstances, in all situations. Today, however, we have received the Prime Minister's communication on a change in the government base in the middle of the parliamentary term, which is now sitting in the government by a group of representatives who no longer belong to the party on whose lists they have been voted on. Three gangs have become a two-way sale and one in the ear. Was it by chance, by accident, or was it all a prearranged, skilled political game? When Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Orpo decided, on the basis of human rights and value base, to show the door to the Finns who led Halla-aho, a small hope arose in the opposition that it would now be possible to change the direction of the unequal cutting policy. Will we finally be able to cancel the training cuts and improve the livelihood of the lowest-income people? Would families with children and family carers find relief in everyday life and endurance? Can you find the keys to save what's left of the welfare state? But these hopes flowed into the sand, melted before they could even be presented to the government. The right-wing government of Sipilä and its approved operating list were stormed by a group of Finns from Peru under the leadership of Timo Soin. The new option gave its blessing to the old government program and its contents. No change for the better, no relief for the poor. Everything is good for the new option, but so was Halla-aho's basic Finns until a week ago. True, today the vote on the watch of the Finns has already changed, throwing a good bull's-butt, but the voters will remember what was done when you were in the government. You resisted accepting all the savings and cuts in the government programme of $4 billion. In the votes in this room, a green 'jaa' wave swept over the Finns of Peru every time a small person’s livelihood was weakened. Even if you wash your hands, as Pontius Pilate did in the past, you will continue to answer to the Finnish people for these decisions. Mr President! But it is not my intention to throw the first stone at anyone or to blame anyone. However, in the light of the facts, the state of democracy in our 100-year-old Finland seems to be extremely worrying. Contacts from humans are confused, angry, and even unbelieving. They really wonder how this situation is possible. They also question the constitutionality of the government because they believe that: The new option no longer represents any party involved in the last parliamentary elections. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, there has also been enormous criticism because there has been a strong suspicion that a plan has already been prepared weeks ago in the background in case Halla-aho becomes chairman of the Finns of Finland. The negotiations between the RKP, the KD and other opposition parties, which have remained blunt, are considered to be mainly a theatre and a political game. Mr President! Last week, a Social Barometer was distributed to us, where as many as 88 per cent of expert respondents believe that inequality has increased throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u227	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have seen and witnessed a very colorful debate and, in part, it is also very amazing: things have even been talked about between people. I thought that when you come to this hall, you drive people’s affairs, not your own things — whether you’re hurt or not — but that’s also part of this parliamentary work. Parliamentary work includes parliamentaryism. Parties belonging to the parliamentary work. We are used to having people in the political parties in the government. Of course, we have had the official government of Martti Miettunen, and the minister does not necessarily have to belong to the party — he is in the government under his own name — but it is strange at the moment. Now it seems that we have the rules of the Wild West, and the law seems to be on the hip, but still nothing has changed. The same things are in force as before the convention of the Finns Party. The government program will continue to be the same. All surgeries are the same. For example, the workers are now being taken, the few are being forgotten. If we bring up a little more of those workers, I still do not understand it for six minutes of three aces, that is, if we add six minutes to the working day and then say that more is less. That is exactly how this is going to be: if we increase working time by six minutes, then we will need fewer workers in these barometers and it will look good on paper. A smaller number of employees do more work because everyone does six minutes per day more work. But what I really do not understand is where is the added value of kiky in these six minutes: where does this six minutes turn into euros? Of course, it turns so much into euros that every six minutes increases unemployment, because when there are six minutes enough, it could hire one employee to fill it with the right job. This is a little weird. But then what changed. I was truly amazed when the new option today announced its name Blue Future. Now I don't know what blue is. We are used to the fact that the old True Finns were dark blue, very right, bright blue was a collection. Is this light blue now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u230	Mr President! The past Finnish Government Crisis Week has been an historic week in Finnish politics. Instead of being one week among the others, it will remain in history as a very sad example of contempt for democracy by our leading politicians. The democratic change of the chairman of one government party, in this case the fundamental Finns, in the party assembly voted by the members of the party, completely upset the politics of the kingdom. The media — all credit to them in this situation — were well aware of the fact that the ministers and the chairmen of the government had prepared for the exchange of the leadership of the Finns Party, quietly in the cabinets, conspiring and conspiring. There had been discussions and negotiations in the Kuulisses quite a while before the meeting of the Finnish People's Party, as well as agreements on various cow trades in case the leaders of the Finns of Finland feel uncomfortable. Today, in this Chamber, we are discussing whether the new government will enjoy the confidence of Parliament after all the machinations that have been made. I am sure that it will certainly not enjoy the confidence of the citizens. The new option, the defector group, is not represented by the party that participated in the Government negotiations in 2015. These defectors, in an unscrupulous manner, betrayed the voters of their original party. Indeed, the government has now been formed between certain groups other than the parties voted by the voters and the parliamentary groups formed by them. Mr President! The passivity of citizens towards election voting and policy in general is often explained by the lack of transparency, honesty and public understanding of politics, the lack of direct democracy and decisions taken in closed cabinets by smouldering and various cow trades. During the weekend before yesterday, members of the People's Party took advantage of the opportunity to influence and vote democratically by voting as their party's new chairman, Jussi Halla-aho, who has enjoyed great confidence among voters from one election to another. His popularity has also increased from one year to the next in the Finnish People’s Party. "Yes, the people know," said my esteemed VeikkoVennamo,but the past week has shown that the people do not know the Mr President! The new defector government that has been formed does not enjoy the confidence of me or my constituents. For months, or perhaps even longer, the negotiations and intrigues in the scenes, as well as the ruthless political theatre and fraud that we saw last week, have completely consumed the credibility of the government and Finnish politics. Not only did the government's resignation return to the sauna on the summer beach, but the government's political credibility was also burned. This insolent play would certainly not have been earned by 100-year-old Finland. Mr President! I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u231	Mr President! One of the biggest political disgraces in independent Finland is linked to the 1973 Act on exceptions, which deprived citizens of the opportunity to elect a president by democratically elected elections. The continuation of President Kekkonen as President was considered important in maintaining good relations with the Eastern Neighbourhood. However, Kekkonen did not consider it worthy of participating in the election struggle with his worst opponents during the 1974 presidential elections. For this reason, a law of exception was introduced in Parliament, which called for the support of a majority of five-sixths. The parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, the Centre Party and the SKDL were behind the adoption of the exemption law. On the other hand, the Finnish Rural Party under the leadership of its chairman Veikko Vennamo was against the bill. The Coalition Party, the RKP and the Liberal People's Party were not united. Prior to the adoption of the exemption law, it appeared that a sufficient majority of five-sixths would not be found. However, at the end of 1972 the legislation on party support was amended so that MEPs moving to another group can take the party support paid by MPs if more than half of the MPs in the parliamentary group were transferred. The Finnish People's Unity Party, which broke away from the SMP in the autumn of 1972, benefited financially from this amendment of the law and voted in favour of the adoption of the Act in return for a clear favor in the 73 exemption vote. The exemption law, which sealed President Kekkonen's re-election, thus entered into force by 170 to 28 votes. One voice was empty. Mr Vennamo, President of the SMP, referred to the SKYP MPs as scot-backs because they were considered to have sacrificed democratic values for the sake of their own economic interests. At the beginning of the current parliamentary term, the Party Act was amended so that, in the event of the dissolution of the parliamentary group, party support would remain with the parent party even if more than half of the parliamentary group defected. This was an important question of principle for Minister Soin and would, he said, correct a great historical injustice. According to some members of the opposition, including Stefan Wallin, this amendment of the law, called Lex Soini, was the main achievement of Minister Soin in the government negotiations. Representative Wallin suspected that Minister Soini was driving a change of law in fear of the break-up of the Finnish Parliament. Whatever the reasons, from a principle point of view, the change in party law was, in any case, morally entirely the right thing to do. Mr President! Fortunately, the Kekkonen era has been over for a long time, but the flagrant anti-democratic speculation on the same scale as the 73 exemption law was reemphasised last week. At the beginning of June, Lauri Nurmi, a journalist of Western Media, wrote about the rumours that within the government 20 representatives of the Finnish People's Party had been agreed to leave their parliamentary group and continue to do so. Support for Sipilä's government as its own group if Jussi Halla-aho were democratically elected as party leader of the Finns of Finland. This all sounded so incredible that I personally admit that I myself had taken the rumour as a mere attempt to influence the outcome of the presidential election. Unfortunately, however, this rumor was not without a basis for truth, but was put into practice literally. The only objective of the Group of the People's Party was to maintain five ministerial positions, the centre and the National Coalition Party with the aim of getting a non-profit-making party to the government, while also doing great damage to the basic Finnish idea and party. It was certainly not a matter of much spoken of values, but of unscrupulous power play. The government partners knew that Jussi Halla-aho would be much more difficult than Timo Soini to resist in the government's internal twists. So the result was now experienced. It is, therefore, a great historical irony that the amendment to the Party Act of 2015 by the break-up of the Finnish People’s Parliament group last Tuesday around 1:04 p.m. prevents party support from being paid to the so-called new option group. The negotiations last Monday between Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo with the recent Chairman of the Finns Party, Jussi Halla-aho, was nothing but a front, although it also fooled the representatives of the Swedish People's Party. In the minds of the voters, there is a very legitimate question as to whether this country is being run by honest means and for the good of the nation. Finnish politics seem to be very badly broken. On the basis of the above, I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u232	Mr President! The formation of this government does not fulfil the conditions required in a democratic civilised state. According to Article 60 of the Constitution, ministers must be honest. The media in the West already announced on 3.6., a week before the Finnish National Assembly, that there had been an agreed plan for the election of Jussi Halla-aho. What Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo have put forward in public seems to be an act. The leap led by Timo Soin has been known to the government's inner circle in good time. Sipilä and Orpo have thus suggested to the Finnish people that the way forward would have been an improvised matter for them. How far is the interpretation of Article 60 of the Constitution on the honesty of ministers? The Sipilä government is going to stretch? In the past, the resignation of ministers has led, for example, to the following events: 2008 Minister of Foreign Affairs Ilkka Kanerva resigned due to the SMS scandal; 2003 Prime Minister Anneli Jäätteenmäki resigned after receiving Iraqi information on secret documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; and 2002 Minister of Culture Suvi Lindén resigned after granting state aid to one golf course in which he was a shareholder. It is now the case that Minister Terho lost the legal and democratic vote of the Finnish people on the presidency by a clear vote. In the light of these events, Mr Terho's candidacy and campaigning in that presidential election will cast a very questionable light on his honesty. What kind of minister stands for election and takes a long, planned campaign but does not respect the outcome of the election? Can such a minister be considered honest?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u235	Mr President! There are no winners in the break-up of the People's Party, at least not among the 37 MPs I know who have reproached each other today. For six years working together and supporting the other, many of us have wandered here. Minister Mattila, you are not here, but I must say here that I am ashamed today to be a politician when values and friendships are nothing but a commodity. It's not supposed to be this way. Prime Minister Sipilä today mentioned that the Finnish people's line has changed, that values must be maintained. Minister Orpo mentioned how we view human dignity. I think it is rather presumptuous to label the whole party and its members with racism just because of the change of presidency, even though nothing has changed since the convention. Neither, as far as I am aware, has any ideology or line changed among other members of the Finnish People's Party. As a result, it would have been honest and it would have been under the authority of the Minister to make a statement of reasons quite outside the public's image that there are grounds now. True Finns are just common sense people who are united by concern for the safety and well-being of our country. If this concern is viewed as extreme thinking in today’s world, then I too am an extremist. I believe that such matters, which the Finns of Finland have previously and now raised, should be shared by the whole of Parliament. I consider the change in the government base to be, above all, an attempt to label the debate that is essential for the future of our country as inappropriate and undesirable. There is no room for the speeches on security and the preservation of independence in this atmosphere. They'll be silenced one way or another. I do not see such an act as being in accordance with democratic principles. That is why it is very natural to support this mistrust of the government. Mr President! Detached from the True Finns The members of the new option group present themselves as Finland’s savior. They are for the country, as if it were no longer for the Finns, even though we have worked together in this government for two years side by side for a common goal. It's more important to them to save the Sipilä government than their own party. I'm afraid this is the truth. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that there is no room for discrimination and racism in the Finnish People's Party. Things haven't changed in an inch. Critical immigration policy is not synonymous with racism; rather, it is synonymous with patriotism. The Finns are a Christian social party, and the values of the party are all available on our website and in our programs. That is what we are committed to. Nothing has changed in that respect, even though they say otherwise here. Mr President! On these grounds, I support the motion of censure put to the government by Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u236	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Niikko spoke very well and I listened carefully to it. Nothing's changed. The people of Peru had a party meeting, which was discussed for a long time. Representatives of the Coalition Party and the Centre Party expressed their views in advance on the fact that if Halla-aho were elected as President, cooperation would not be possible. Our votes were to be influenced. By the way, did anyone notice that the Greens also had a vote that weekend? There was no one to comment on it. So nothing's changed with us. The defectors have left, we do not know their programs or their values. But still, as Mr Niikko has just said, our values have become strange. I have not been a Sotonite, I have not been a Halla-Aholainen, I have been a Basic Finnish. I was running for president myself. Nevertheless, I became a worthless person overnight, apparently to some. I've been critical of immigration in my speeches. I have criticised many of the government's decisions. I've been very critical of the EU. But I don't think I'm inappropriate. I have received a great deal of mail from the citizens, and I have been asked: "Tell me, Leena, as a lawyer, whether this can be the case. We have voted for the Finns of Finland, and suddenly people are different from the group of Finns of Finland who are now sitting in the government." They ask me, " shouldn't we be honest?" They're going to lose their last faith in politics, "What are you smokin' about there?" I have replied that I do not know about this because I was not informed in advance. I sat at a meeting of the parliamentary group — a huge maneuver, a spectacular opportunity, accompanied by the media. They tried to get us mixed up. Apparently, it was a question of this group of defectors trying to kidnap a fundamental Finnish parliament group elected and whose party chairman has changed in a democratic vote. No one has claimed that any illegal activity took place there. There has been talk of hillbillying — are there not supporters in all the votes and elections who drive their own candidate? I had some of those too, I'm sure they didn't, these hardworking women behind me are no hillbilly gang. I didn't get convinced today. I asked Minister Sampo Terho... 5.6. I listened carefully to the Political Radio, where the question was asked, there is a rumor that 20 representatives are defecting and they will continue in the government what you say about this. The then candidate for the presidency replied: ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous, this can never happen. What happened? That's the 20 that walked into that room. This doesn't seem good. Really, if we are thinking about democracy and democracy, people are rounded up. The legal scholars have said yes, yes, formally this procedure is relatively good, but this does not increase public confidence, and legitimacy is now at risk. We Finns have programs. We have values. I cannot understand what the value base is, which is no longer good enough. I've been good enough so far, too. I've done very well. That's what I'm wondering. This is an excuse to sabotage our election. I drew attention to one or two points, as Mr Orpo said, which actually reflect what this group of defectors has been taken there for: In other words, they no longer have a lever or a negotiating arm, but are in the process of ensuring, among other things, the social reform of the Coalition Party and the Centre Party. The orphan said: the government is now more capable. Of course, there's only two parties left, of course it's more functional. The third party is following a government programme which will no longer be subject to any change, and apparently no longer to the blackmails of immigration. After all, they have been the demands of the Finns of Peru. The second was that Minister Orpo said this: EU membership is patriotism, it must not be questioned. So, are we not allowed to discuss the deepening integration of the EU, the loss of control over us? Apparently, that's a bad thing. I find it interesting that, however, our fundamental Finns have moved or these defectors have moved to a government that promotes the deepening of the EU and then, on the other hand, we are told that we have the wrong values. This is such a confusing situation that the people will understand this, I am sure, and in the next elections the people will speak with their feet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u237	Mr President! Finland received a new form of government with two parties and one non-party, i.e. an auxiliary party, which is just about to take shape. We do not know what policy it will pursue. In this context, when such a change took place in the government and at least some kind of negotiations were taking place — albeit in secret, not as is normally the case in the government negotiations — it would have been possible to examine the government programme in some respects. I admit that before last week and after last, we Finns would have accepted the Government Programme as such, but when it is a very round strategic programme, it could have been specified in some respects. I myself would have been willing to be more specific about its social focus. We know very well that when this parliamentary term began, Finland was almost in a free economic fall. The finance ministers of the Social Democrats and the Minister for Labour left us almost a bankruptcy estate in the economy and in employment. The rate of debt was horrendous. Taxes were tightened so that the economy coughed up. Unemployment increased and all indicators showed the wrong direction. A clear, strong change in economic policy was needed. The Sipilä government — the centre, the Finns and the National Coalition — decided to take and take action: cuts were made, a kiky agreement was made, structural reforms were carried out, and many other smaller measures were taken. The trust came back and the economy went into growth. The economy and employment, both started to grow. Now the readings are reasonably good for the circumstances. In this situation, it would have been possible to examine whether more than a million people in Finland who are underprivileged, who are poor, could be eased a little. Indeed, they have paid a heavy bill in this two-year period and now they expect that if they too were to receive a small share of this economic growth. I admit that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance are right in saying that growth is on a weak footing and that the risks are high, but we also have those people whose lives are on a weaker footing. That is why it would have been appropriate to look at this too, but there was no desire for it, but the government will continue as before and there will be nothing for the poor. Mr President! As far as the formation of this government is concerned, it culminates in a certain way in the Jyväskylä Party Assembly. There were ordinary people from all over the country, more than 2,000 members of the party entitled to vote. I think it is a very heavy mockery, a disgrace to them when it is claimed that they are some of the extremists who wanted to change the leadership of the party. No, they came from Ostrobothnia, Eastern Finland, Lapland, Southern Finland, and there were many of them who have suffered from this tough economic course, which has been for two years. They have not resigned from the party but have been waiting for a change of course in politics. That's why they voted the way they did. They wanted a change. They did not believe that Sampo Terho brought the change, but they sought the candidate to whom they trusted, trusted that he would bring the change, and voted as they voted, and we know the result. In other words, I do not approve of mocking the members of the Basic Finns by being some inappropriate nugget. They're honest, working Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u240	Mr President! Last week, dark political history was made. In fact, Jussi Halla-aho, who was democratically elected to the leadership of his party, did not even have the opportunity to demonstrate his willingness to continue the work of the party's government. It is evident from the excellent work of the media that the plan to break up the second largest parliamentary group in the Parliament was supposed to have been drawn up with the chairmen of other government parties in good time before the meeting of the Finnish People's Party. This led to the very strange conclusion that, in the end, the Ministerial Troika did not even agree with its own government programme or with the bullying mentality of the school, at least not with the wrong people. In assessing the continuation of government cooperation, much was said about values and the value base that parties should share. There is no information on the value base of the defector government except the government program. What else has been agreed in the scenes is known only to those concerned. However, from the point of view of democracy and parliamentarianism, it is questionable that the vote of half a million citizens and two thousand members of the party can be watered down in this way by twenty defectors. The values of the True Finns are on books and covers in the election program, where they can be easily checked, they have not changed anything since the party meeting. "The basis for the activities of the fundamental Finns is respectability, justice,humanity, equality, respect for work and enterprise, and intellectual growth. " A new team of defectors is likely to be missing at least the first few points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u245	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The past week has been quite muted and tumultuous. We have in our hands a government in which some government ministers have become a new parliamentary group. The People's Party of Finland has broken down as a result of the party meeting a week ago. I was also nominated as Vice-President of the Finnish People's Party, and I went around the field very much and heard and saw what the ideas of the field were. It was very much expected that a party meeting would be held and that it would then be possible to vote there. It was democracy and it was Members who came and Members who voted. Mr President! Politics is broken. This is a phrase we have heard before, but for the first time I personally have seen that politics has broken down. The idea that we are doing our work well, genuinely, even ethically, humanly, with each other listening and understanding is broken. I think that the way in which this Parliament has acted in the event of the division of this group has been strange, it has been strange. It has been amazed at how this can be done. Of course, this discussion now culminates in us Finns, members of the Finnish Parliament Group. Sometimes it feels like this is where personal things are going, because each of us is thinking and wondering how this happened and whether it was right. Mr President! The events that took place on Tuesday went forward with a tumult and speed, and many of us in the parliamentary group did not know what was happening under the surface and what decisions had been made. Some of us in the parliamentary group, the government party, had been labeled unreliable or otherwise inappropriate even to discuss what will happen to our party in the future, what kind of composition we would continue in this Parliament. I was also part of that group. The work I had done for the party for 10 years, the way I had carried forward the government programme and politics here, suddenly turned out to be unreliable. And that’s what I’ve been thinking about for many nights and days now, how this really happened. Mr President! We've been talking about values here. Values are not for sale, and everyone should go along his own golden middle road and path wherever it leads. I'm not part of this UV group. I am not currently part of the Finnish Parliament, either, because I am in intermediate state. I have been put in an intermediate position when I also have to weigh my own values and thoughts on how to proceed from here on out. It's been kind of a bad feeling since the members of the UV team have mentioned here that they're on a patriot's errand. They are on a patriotic mission to take Finland uphill and save Finland. What have the rest of us been doing? What is left of the Finnish People's Party if there are those left who do not fight for our country and do not want to make decisions and decisions that are good in Finland? Mr President! Whether it's a conspiracy, whether it's a House of Cards TV show or a 24-TV show, there's been a thing under the surface. How can we set out to make a good policy so that our constituents, whom we face every day in the grocery store, in those turbulent and squares, understand and realize whether things are actually, really, honest and genuinely done here? What is Finnish politics like and what kind of confidence do we parliamentarians enjoy? There's no point in crying that "Oh, when we get called out and hate mail and hate mail," if we do this. Then you have to take the mail as far as we're concerned if we don't know fair and proper rules of the game. How can we talk about bullying or interfere if we do not follow them ourselves? Mr President! I am in favour of the motion of censure from the Finnish Parliament. I hope, however, that we will be able to move forward here in Parliament in such a way that we act in a humane way with respect for one another and listening to our values. Let each one follow the voice of his heart. That is what I will do in the future here in the Chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u246	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have discussed the formation of a government, whether the government should be overthrown, with what rights and obligations the government programme can continue. Many ideas have also been put forward here as to whether the Constitution can be interpreted. Personally, I am not an expert on the Constitution, so I will leave it to more experienced and knowledgeable people to interpret it. However, the Government will continue on the same value basis as the 2015 Government Programme was written on. It's been told here many times today. There are no changes to the Government Programme in this context, but we are moving forward, so to speak, according to the book, whether it is a social welfare reform or immigration or employment management. It has also been discussed here whether this current expenditure in Parliament is art, summer theatre, whether this activity has confidence. Good speeches have been made here, and I have probably been thinking about this myself during this week. However, I would not like to use the word "summer theatre" or "theater" in general in this house and gym. I mean, seriously, you make decisions here, don't you? At least I personally feel that all 200 Members of Parliament are here to make a policy in accordance with their own values and, more or less, of course, the programme is flexible, as we know the people in the government, and the opposition will, of course, have the opportunity to be firmer behind its own affairs. This situation, which arose in Finland after the weekend before yesterday, also created the opportunity to act in this way that the government can continue with the current programme and the new composition, as I interpret it. According to the law, the government did not need to be dissolved, it did not need new elections, but the current, renewed basis will continue with the current government programme. There have also been colorful debates here during the day, and I believe that this type of debate will continue in this Chamber for the next two years. This new-born situation, when the number of parliamentary groups has also increased with one, allows for this kind of discussion. However, I would like to see an attempt to avoid criticism of a person, or even harsh use of words, in this Chamber and let things be the ones that are strictly used. This kind of criticism of a person does not seem to me to be in accordance with the authority of this Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u247	Mr President! I was talking here earlier about Orwell and democracy, the responsibility of Sipilä and Orpo and, above all, of Soin to the citizens, whose image of decision-making and politics became increasingly blackened. Now a few more words about Europe and history. We remember Kekkonen's instructions: if one of us has to be in trouble, let it be domestic policy rather than foreign policy. This government thinks the opposite: once a change in the system is achieved in Finland, it does not care about Finland's international reputation. I have just required that Minister Terho promises that he will not be calling for an EU referendum in the next election. Even the fact that the EU Minister does not even drive Finland's resignation from the EU does not make a constructive and credible role for Finland in these very critical and significant European times. Although populists in the EU have fallen as a result, populists in Finland lead EU policy. As a counterweight to populism in Europe, there is a strengthening of European cooperation and expansion in which the new leadership of France and the likely continuation of German leadership take the initiative. The Commission will take further initiatives to correct monetary union and to work together to boost employment, growth and investment. This government has so far followed the EU line of the Finns of Peru, which is summed up in the word "impivaaralainen". This is not going to change. The President-in-Office of the Assembly will make a fuss and talk, even if there is a complete lack of action. This is a good reminder from two years ago. At that time, Alexander Stubb, the Minister of Finance of Finland, whose life's work is the promotion of the EU, was forced to demand that Greece be separated from the euro area by pressure from the Finns of Peru. Must have been the blackest moment of his career. Finland went to Brussels with its coat open to make threats and threats. As you might guess, there was a tail burning between the legs. A large committee was called on to meet on Sunday in July in order to withdraw this embarrassing request. This was a co-operative euro policy in the pliers, mercys and conditions of the Finns. Unfortunately, this is not going to change, because the people you trust, that is, the adopted boys, are going to stay even though the party went out of control. And unfortunately, this government, corrected with paper clips, blue stickers, is constantly weakening Finland's position in the world. Of course, this is the intention of a new government party and a new opposition party, but the rest of the government is drifting further and further away. Mr President! Finally, reminders of history. The representative, Mr Gustafsson, did a good job of comparing the current situation with ministerial socialism a hundred years ago, but we do not have to go so far. Prime Minister Karl-August Fagerholm narrowly lost the SDP presidential election in 1957, which was 60 years ago. He felt, quite rightly, that the government ministers had received a motion of censure — just as the government's fundamental Finnish ministers in Jyväskylä had. But now there is a crucial difference: Fagerholm drew conclusions, Soini did not. Fagerholm resigned, ministers resigned and a new government was formed. The opposite is the case: after the motion of censure, the ministerial portfolios were increasingly seized. This does not enhance the respect of democracy, the prestige of parliamentaryism and is not worthy of the democratic traditions of 100-year-old Finland. Another history to which the event compares is the familiar case 26. of June 1944. The President of the Republic, Risto Ryti, sent Adolf Hitler a letter in which he assured him that Finland would continue to wage war alongside Germany until the end. A few days earlier, the Nazi German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop had visited Helsinki to demand a promise. Ryti deliberately made a commitment only in her own name, so Finland considered the agreement to have lapsed at the same time as the President resigned in August 44. Peace was agreed with the Soviet Union the following month. Of course, although conditions were quite different over 70 years ago, the arrival of Finns on the Finnish Constitution was a similar solution based on one person. True Finns could only be tolerated because they trusted Timo Soini to keep the extremist groups of his party in check. Racist grumblings, bullying of minorities and more were tolerated: immigration policy was given to Jussi Halla-aho for writing. Here a member of the National Coalition spoke his finger to the Finns who flirted with extremists in order to obtain sufficient support — sufficient for jam pole — but did not know how to hold them in a minority. But even more strongly he should blame his own party, who dared to build a government program on just one person than Ribbentrop. Now, a very short closing note, where I say that the risk was enormous and it went off. Sipilä and Orpo lost their own gambling, so they had to change the rules of the game. They confiscated the bank and the chips. Mr President! There are historical similarities, but there is also a crucial difference. Fagerholm, who lost his job, gave up power. Ryti, who was defeated, gave up power. The defeated Soini and the defeated Terho clinged to power. This is the difference between men and statesmen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u248	Mr President! There's not much to tell about politics. The government was about to feel orphaned when one of the government parties had changed the chairmanship. At this point, Mr President, I am taking a moment of silence for the memory of politics and democracy in the wake of this government. [ The speaker will be quiet for a moment]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u249	Mr President! Formerly, the representative Kankaanniemi pointed out that the people and members who voted for Jussi Halla-aho at the Social Democratic Party meeting in Jyväskylä the other weekend were certainly not made up of any extremist elements and were not made up of any racists, but were ordinary Finnish people. I myself know many people who voted for Jussi Halla-aho at the party meeting. Most of them wanted to change the priorities promoted by the Finnish People’s Party and the People’s Movement. They wanted the best for the Finnish people and thought that Sampo Terho would not bring that change, or at least not in the desired direction. I think it's been seen now what that direction would have been. For some reason, in recent years, Timo Soini changed from the loathsomeness of the media to the need for it. Had he pushed too much of the agenda of other parties in the government, forgetting his previous promises? It remains for each of us to assess, especially after this very rough episode last week. Mr President! A backstabbing from one's own hands is always the worst. I have always defended my own in public, although many of the decisions taken here in Parliament have been difficult, sometimes even contrary to my values, but when they have been agreed, I have stood in the common front. I would also have stood behind Sampo Terho if he had been elected chairman of the party. Mr President! I always try to be honest in politics. I frankly admit that I am angry, especially with my former groupmates who have defected, but also with former government partners who seem to have been involved in the break-up of the fundamental Finnish party. Trust has now taken a long time. We'll see if it'll come back one day, even in part.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-19-ps-72.u250	Mr President! Here in Parliament and in the social media too, there has been a long period of speculation, which must be the final name of this new grouping. For the sake of simplicity, I myself have proposed to name them the Apu Party, but then they chose such a name as the Blue Future. It is likely to be called the Blue Future, which can be interpreted, translated, among other things, "a sad, sad future". Our task here in Parliament is to ensure that this forecast does not come true.
