ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u1	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u2	Mr President! The Government’s proposal clarifies and complements the safety inspection regulation so that in future the police can carry out more comprehensive security inspections at events and events requiring special protection or special supervision. I believe that this bill is more than justifiable. According to the proposal, a police officer may, if the situation so requires, also apply a security check to a person in the area of organisation of the event and not only to a person arriving, leaving or in the immediate vicinity of the place of organisation of the event. This is a very good reform because the aim is to improve the order of events and the security of all of us. That must be the goal of all of us. This objective must be supported, particularly in the current security situation. These proposed changes will help to ensure that a police officer has the right to carry out an inspection which is necessary for the order and security of the various events on a regional scale. Thank you to the government for this performance that goes all the way to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u3	Mr President! In several of my speeches, which have been related to police powers, I have stated that in Finland the police must have all the same powers that the Nordic or European rule of law has deemed possible for the police to grant. Often, such situations simply point to the need for more police officers. That too is true, in fact we would need more police officers, and it is great that the present government and the present Home Secretary, Risikko, have made efforts to increase the number of policemen, or at least to prevent the reduction in the number of police officers assumed in these spending limits decisions. When I talk about police powers, they are important and they are needed, regardless of the fact that we currently have more police officers than we do. The number and visibility of police officers on the street is very important for citizens' sense of security and, of course, also for preventing and solving crimes, but the police's powers of action are also very important. Here is a small improvement on the police's ability to act in certain situations, but I am looking forward to and hope that the government will also bring these long-standing reform of the intelligence laws to the House in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u4	Madam President! This government proposal must be supported, as Mr Kulmala has said here. We in the Administrative Committee had a broad consensus that new laws are needed in this sector in order to update the powers of the authorities for this purpose. The authorities must have the authority to ensure the proper progress of the event and the safety of people in the vicinity of the places where they are licensed and the various kinds of opportunities. However, it is also a question of police resources. The reform of the alcohol law is currently under discussion in Parliament, which, if implemented, will make it difficult for the police to work, increases the workload of the police and continues to put pressure on the police resources, which, even this time, despite what Mr Zyskowicz has said, are extremely limited in relation to the need for the police. I hope that Parliament will not, in future, provide the police with additional workloads that do not match the police's resources. I welcome this government proposal, which is now being discussed, but police resources need to be looked at in a comprehensive manner for all legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u5	Madam President! I also support this bill. The powers of the police must be taken into account, and it is good that the legislation improves and corrects them. However, I would like to draw attention to this regional coverage of the police, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when Finland is a sparsely populated country, it is important in rural areas to reach the police, that is what we need to do. It is good that during this parliamentary term the number of policemen will remain the same and that means that resources will be provided for. But when distances are long, security is essentially affected by having to wait several decades for the authority to get there. However, even at the moment, the police, one patrol unit, may have a very large area to worry about, and this, of course, is of concern to the public. Prevention of crime, of course, tackling crime, the fact that the police are visible, and, of course, the time when the police are brought in by a feeling of security is one of the key issues. But with regard to the resources of the police, I would also like to add that it should also be given attention from the point of view of obtaining citizens' permits, for example, when arms permits are issued and processed, that it is fair throughout Finland, so that the police have the resources to be able to issue these permits as an authority so that the processing times are reasonable. And when we also deal with these laws here, attention should be paid to this. All in all, however, it is good that this bill is now moving forward and working with regard to the powers of the police. It is to be welcomed, and good work has been done by the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u6	Mr President! We have also listened quite a bit recently to this police situation in the Administrative and Security Section, and I would like to say that I am still concerned about the resources of the police. So, in a way, when you look at the security situation today, you have to say that the tasks have become more diverse and new challenges have arisen, and it is clear that, today, with resources, not all the needs that would be needed to strengthen people's safety can be sufficiently realised. It is therefore important to continue to draw attention to the fact that, in future, when there is talk of a specific need, of the minimum number of police officers, at the same time, the resources will not be met, neither in practice nor in the years to come. Attention must also be paid to the fact that enough young people are being sought as police officers. At the moment we have heard that although these numbers of police trainees have been slightly increased there at the Hervanna Police College in Tampere, there should certainly be more in the future, and the same attractiveness has not been as good as perhaps today as we could hope for overall. President! Here, Mr Kari also raised a very topical issue in this regard: From time to time, we have also spoken in this Chamber about the reform of alcohol law, and we know that it also brings with it a greater need for the number of police officers, and it is therefore appropriate to ask a little question whether it would be appropriate to consider the whole reform from this point of view as well. Especially since we know that there are also many views here in the government parties that this reform as such should not be taken forward, would there be any further reason to consider:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u7	Mr President! This amendment to Chapter 2 of the Police Act is therefore a matter of amending the security inspection regulation to enable the police to carry out more comprehensive security inspections, particularly at events and events requiring special protection or supervision. In recent times, we have seen a considerable increase in the number of events and events that have been called together. When the authority previously given by the law of the police has been specific to those who are there at events, so, as the number of events and events has increased, there is also a clear order for this change in police powers. Police powers in general are common issues, they are not so-called governmental and opposition issues, and therefore also in the Administrative Committee, when we discussed this matter, we were very much in agreement on this issue and there were unanimous statements and reports. As far as the arms permits raised by Mr Savola are concerned, we have also developed legislation on arms permits, i.e. the possibility of an electronic arms licence, the location of the weapons permits is being removed and thus these processes are being streamlined.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u8	Mr President! Indeed, the Administrative Committee was unanimous in its opinion, and it is important that the police have the capacity to deal with changing situations even when they change rapidly. Events are just the way that if something starts to happen, then there must be a very quick ability to act. The aim of this law is to make it easier for the police to deal with violent situations, for example, in a preventative way or when situations arise or, for example, in the transmission of drugs. In other words, the police will be able to monitor more closely what is happening at the events and, of course, around them. In general terms, however, there is concern when the police resources are what they are and we know how difficult it can be to get the police in a situation, and the Administrative Committee has discussed this a great deal and we are also very much in agreement that there is a need to further develop the police in Finland in order to increase the number of police officers in the current situation. In its own opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that this law, which is now being tabled, was acceptable, but they pointed out that such an inspection procedure must not impose an unreasonable burden on the parties concerned and we must respect the rights of the individual when we allow and do security checks, but that is, fortunately, what is being done in this bill. This is a good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u9	Mr President! Indeed, the law in question is that the police have the powers that they need to carry out their duties, and this must of course be the case. When you look at this a little more broadly, it is so that when we have a changing security environment, we must always look at the police's powers of action, so that they can then be responsible for the tasks they are responsible for, and that is what we naturally rely on. These examples have been well highlighted by the above speakers, for example, how this now facilitates the work of the police and gives new powers of action for the prevention of various types of crime. But perhaps from this broader picture it is really good to remember that when we talk a lot about the police and focus on this number of policemen, it is also important in the sense that it was reported just this week that as many as one third of the policemen are suffering from fatigue and even half of the police think that their working hours are not enough to carry out all the tasks they are required of them. These are quite startling figures when a third says they are experiencing a fatigue, and half still say that they may not be able to complete all the tasks within working hours. It will provide strong evidence of what Mr Kari has said here, for example, that the number of policemen really needs to be sufficient to be able to carry out all the tasks. Of course, this also applies to the legislator in the sense that under the circumstances, at least in this house, we do not take decisions that create an additional burden for police officers who have already been very overworked. Here both Mr Kari and Mr Viitanen raised the issue of this reform of the alcohol law, for example. These are really a whole, and I would like to see these very carefully discussed here too, so that the police really do their job and we give them the resources they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u10	Madam President! It is very good that, in the context of the reform of Chapter 2 of this Police Act, which thus improves the regulation of security inspections, it has, firstly, been possible for Parliament to adopt a unanimous approach and decisions on the basis of a government proposal. I think it is also a reflection of Parliament's thinking, and in this sense this is a good thing. It is a matter of promoting security, but it is also worth noting that the legal protection of the authorities, the policemen, is at stake. On that street, even though some kind of protest force moves, it is rare for baseball players to actually join the game with baseball bats, but then the equipment is used for something else. And in a way, the police also need legal protection and legislation on what they can do to promote security. All in all, the Finnish police is the best cop in the world. The Finnish police find out many situations by their very nature, humor, sometimes by getting in the right way in their own personal way. The legal provisions are then these matters needed by law and necessary for decision-making and for further management of matters. Of course, the police should have instructions and articles behind them, but I do emphasise this nature of the Finnish police. It's a way to sort out a lot of situations and move things forward. All in all, managing security in different situations is quite demanding today, when a rather worrying phenomenon is also the fact that, in some cases, even the work and tasks of the rescue services, i.e. fire and medical rescue services, can be disrupted. There is a place for us in this society to do things, because we must certainly give them peace of work. Part of this law also brings it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u11	Madam President! In fact, as I requested in reply. It is certainly clear that the reform of the alcohol law will lead to an increase in the number of disruptions in order if the restrictions on alcohol are made easier, but I do not see the context here in the sense that this is precisely a question of making safety and controls possible. Alcohol law hardly increases the opportunities that are being organised. Alcohol consumption may increase, but I do not think it will increase the organisation of the events itself, where the police then have more extensive inspection rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u12	Madam President! It is true that Parliament is now making Finland safer together. When the matter was discussed in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, the reality which, unfortunately, has come to light in the organisation of events in the world as a different form of terrorism or acts of violence has emerged. This legislation now allows the authorities to increase their powers in a sustainable manner, while respecting human rights and fundamental rights, so that the police can better guarantee and at least ensure the security of opportunities through more effective legislation. It is noteworthy that most of the police’s duties are related to alcohol and alcohol in general. That is why it is extremely important that the very limited resources available to the police are not used to deal with the increasing harm caused by alcohol and drugs, but rather that legislation should try to reduce the harm caused by intoxicants, in this case alcohol, and the problems caused by excessive alcohol consumption, of course, to people close to them but from the point of view of work, particularly and primarily to the police. But one thing that happened, not at the initiative of the government, but at the initiative of the opposition, was to stop the steady decline in the number of policemen. The SDP's own internal security programme as early as 2016 in the spring and here in Parliament set this level of 7200 as a minimum that must no longer be flexible, and in this context I would like to thank the government for having taken the line of the SDP in stopping the decline in the number of police officers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u13	Mr President! In his opening speech, Mr Kulmala presented this law quite exhaustively in my opinion, and I agree with what Mr Kulmala said and also that this bill must be supported. I hope this goes all the way to the finish line. A number of contributions have focused on the availability of the police and mainly on delays in response times. Yes, on the basis of my practical feedback from the field, the reason for this increase in response times is because the police station network is very few. It is so few that when the police leave these few stations to carry out their duties, the geographical distance is bound to increase as the network of police stations decreases. I hope that, in the future, we will also be able to think about this from the point of view that at least this police station network will not be reduced. When these speeches have been heard over the years, all the delegates have been movingly unanimous about the need to increase police resources, and everyone has been concerned about the lack of resources. I am surprised, though, that when such a common will has been the case over the years, how are we still in this position? Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that action will now be taken in such a way that everyone will play their part and forcefully assume that this number of police officers, 7200, will be brought closer to 8,000 and will therefore improve basic services for citizens. Mr President! That is where Mr Savola spoke about the permit administration. This morning, I had a conversation with one of the officials in charge of the permit administration and he said that he constantly has about a hundred applications for firearms on the table and that in terms of time it is about three months. That it's really too long a time to wait for this gun to be acquired. And the problem is that licensing practices vary in different parts of the country. I hope that the Police Government will instruct all police stations at once so that all applicants can:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u14	Mr President! Representative Hongisto well pointed out the current decline in police stations. It would seem that certain police chiefs still need to reflect and close police stations with their own decisions. However, we have the decision of the then Minister of Interior Orpo of 6 June 2016, i.e. the decision of the Ministry of the Interior on the location of the police offices, and here, for example, in Eastern Finland, it is said: "The Eastern Finland Police Department. The main police station of the Eastern Finland Police Department is located in the city of Kuopio, and the police station has police stations in the cities of Iisalme, Joensuu, Juankoski, Kite, Lieksa, Mikkeli, Nurmes, Outokumpu, Pieksämäki, Savonlinna, Suonenjoki and Varkaus, as well as in the municipalities of Ilomantsi and Juva." I find it a miracle that local police chiefs in their own decisions are reducing these police stations, because I believe that this decision, which was taken and signed by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Orpo, is still in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u15	On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the meeting of the large committee is awaiting its start at 1.30 p.m., but there are still four speeches on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u16	Mr President! A few more comments on this matter itself, in which we are now actually increasing the powers of the police. In my view, it is also important to note that we in Finland have been able to combine two very important things: one with the promotion of security, and the other with respect for fundamental rights, which go hand in hand with this proposal. On the one hand, we are able to give the authorities more powers to carry out the task for which they are responsible, that is to say to ensure our security, but on the other hand, we always take account of the realisation of fundamental rights, so that there are no situations where the authorities themselves are in violation of the fundamental rights of citizens. This is a good thing to always bear in mind when we are discussing different issues here, and this is particularly important because, for example, in this matter, when there is a unanimous report behind it, Parliament as a whole is taking this issue forward now. As my esteemed representative, Mr Hongisto, spoke well here about the number of policemen, there is now a need for such broad unity as has been suggested by Mr Kari in several speeches over the years that we could look a little further together to see how these resources are secured. I would remind you, when this is also the report of the Administrative Committee, that the Administrative Committee has repeatedly stressed that we, too, in this number of policemen should move more in the direction of the level of the other Nordic countries, and then it would mean that around 8,000 police officers would be in Finland. These resources, which are now, cannot be achieved, and that is why we need a more long-term parliamentary agreement on how to achieve this objective in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u17	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Räsänen, for your good speech. It is easy to continue with that briefly. In other words, when we do these laws, we aim to reconcile respect for fundamental human rights with the guarantee of security for all of us. Generally speaking, when the alcohol law is linked to this police debate, it is understandable — alcohol consumption has a lot of implications. I myself am a little concerned at the level of the social debate about the fact that the debate on alcohol law appears somewhat adversarial. However, I believe that the changes proposed by the government are quite moderate. There are, however, some things that are worth thinking about, such as the fact that, for example, when the police know very well what are the restaurants that cause disorder of order, when we remove licenses from the late hours of opening, it may be that this increases the number of police duties. The police could easily influence this issue, too, so that we might give some thought to where these permits are given. In general, I support the government's proposal to reform the alcohol law. And yet, when we talk about the number of policemen in general, Mr Hongisto spoke wisely, and I believe that we all have a collective responsibility to try to bring police resources closer to the Nordic level. Reducing police resources has been done at a time when the security situation was, frankly, different and the world looked very different. At the moment, we must meet the challenge that has come to us from the world and which is also taking place in Finland — police resources must be secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u18	Mr President! Here I would like to continue to say that police resources must be secured, and a good idea, for example, is the parliamentary cooperation previously presented by Mika Kari, which would look beyond the parliamentary term. I think it's a good idea. As far as this alcohol law, which we have just touched upon, is concerned, the government's own proposal estimates that this changing alcohol law will require additional resources of between EUR 10 and 15 million for the police. We all know that, in the short time of the budget, this is quite a lot of money and everything. I fully agree with what has been said here, that this situation and the security environment have changed enormously, that there are more and more challenges, and that is why it is important that we are able to secure all the resources of the police. I myself often wonder that, although there is a shortage of resources to combat the shadow economy, even if there is a small amount of additional effort, we will be able to do more good elsewhere. That is why it would be very worthwhile to think very strongly about this long-term security of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u19	Madam President! Briefly, Mr Kulmala raised the issue of the abolition of the city of Outokumpu and Ilomants police station. Or rather: neither of these posts has been officially terminated, but only police posts have been transferred to Joensuu or Kite. In other words, when Petteri Orpo made a decision when he was Minister of the Interior that these posts would remain, and now during the time of the Minister of Interior Risiko, these posts were transferred to central places, it is clear that there are risks involved. However, at least in the Minister's reply to my written question, he replied that it is not, of course, a question of shutting down posts, i.e. cancelling the previous decision, but of delegating posts. I see it as a bit of a problem, but I guess you have to be able to get along with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u20	Mr President! This government proposal and report on the amendment of the police law are to be welcomed. I agree that it is good to review these police powers in this regard, as has been done in this proposal. The debate has raised issues such as the closure of police stations last year. In retrospect, the decision may not have been fully considered. Two police stations were shut down from Pirkanmaa, and indeed longer missions have made it very difficult for older citizens in particular. This has become a lot of feedback from the voters. I therefore call on the government and the Minister for the Interior to consider further in future, if these plans for closure continue to exist, and to use the possible harm to citizens from these closures of police stations. Then there's still talk of police sufficiency. Admittedly, the security situation in Finland has changed and unfortunately is worse. We have to secure the resources of the police. The number of policemen and women must continue to be safeguarded. But, of course, it is not enough to increase resources, but it is good for us here in Parliament to always remember to address the root causes of this deterioration in the security situation, not just the resources that are needed to address the problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-27-ps-112.u21	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 10/2017 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreements and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
