ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u2	Mr President! The need to draw up this bill was highlighted, as was the case with many other legislative initiatives, in practical terms. At my place of residence in the Swan of Lappeenranta, Konnunsuo is located one of the largest reception centers with storage facilities. In time, such use was found in a traditional but closed prison. Fewer people can escape there, but at least that happened once, and the police investigating the case commented to the media that it is not legally possible to use telecommunications surveillance or cell phone location to track down these escapees. As a matter of fact, I still contacted the inspector in question and made sure that was the case. I'm sure everyone understands the flaw here, no matter where it is and where it is. People with a very high risk profile may be in custody. They may not be subject to criminal suspicion or conviction at the moment, but they may have significant military training, combat experience and serious actions, whether abroad or in the case of exiles in Finland. It is not in accordance with any reasonable sense of law that such persons can move freely in our country once they have been legally detained. The authorities must have the means to reach them. Their location in our country is not a private matter and cannot enjoy privacy. Therefore, we who have signed the bill are proposing an addition to the law on coercive measures to enable fugitives to be subject to the supervision and positioning of telecommunications terminal equipment. The amendment includes an addition to one section and a whole new section. This bill has sought to limit the change to a precise solution to the problem that has escaped from this container without extending more generally the scope of the law on coercive measures to cover too large a number of acts, which could raise questions of legal certainty or proportionality. This is a small and precise improvement, after which there will certainly be a lot of problems to solve. However, a step forward in terms of Finnish security will be taken if the Parliament takes forward this initiative or its core content.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u3	Mr President! I thank Jani Mäkelä for a good bill. It's too bad I didn't have time to sign that bill in the first place. Indeed, if a person has been detained, there is, of course, a reason for that at that point, that is to say, it has been necessary either to leave the country or otherwise to take him in so that he does not move freely. And of course, if he gets out of there, there must be an immediate and urgent opportunity to find him, and of course there is a high risk assessment at the very bottom that he has been detained. This is very much to be welcomed; we must have sufficient means. We often talk about what happened in Turku, about the need for the authorities to have adequate means, and that was when intelligence law and its importance and the parties were asked about it, and that too is now one of the things we can do at the internal borders of the country to monitor people's actions and movements. I am very pleased with this bill. I would just like to remind all of the representatives: the Finns Party took a debate on internal security a moment ago, and I hope, of course, that the other parties want to have a debate on internal security here in the Chamber. I haven't heard a comment from anyone. The citizens are waiting for an answer as to whether we want to discuss this matter in Parliament or not. After all, the Prime Minister only held a secret meeting with the party leadership. The rest of us have not received up-to-date information. Thanks again to Jani Mäkelä for a very good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u4	Madam President! In response to what Mrs Mere has said, strengthening the security of citizens and strengthening the sense of security — that is, internal security — are very important issues. The Coalition Party is at least ready to discuss what we can do together at any time, so that we can ensure even better the safety of Finns and also the security of Finns. This is a matter of a person who has been detained and who has managed to escape from it and then who has been tracked down and caught. I would remind you that no one is detained in Finland on very light grounds. Article 121 of the Aliens Act lists precisely the conditions under which a person may be detained. Ultimately, decisions in these situations are always made on the basis of individual judgement, and ultimately the court decides to remain in custody. When one of the reasons for detention is, for example, paragraph 1(6), that "there are reasonable grounds to believe that a foreigner constitutes a threat to national security, taking into account the personal and other circumstances of a foreigner," I do think that the authorities in Finland should have all the means known and permitted by the rule of law such as us, including to track down and capture persons who may pose a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u5	Mr President! Our internal security has been shaken, and then, in order to strengthen people’s everyday sense of security, we legislators must do everything possible. Here is one example of our lack of such action in the case of those detained, as Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Mäkelä pointed out above the security threats and the background to the situations in which detention is used. When it comes to people of this type, it is certainly justifiable that a very effective way can also be used to catch them or to track them down, that is to say, to use tele-monitoring data in the search for them. I personally support this initiative in principle. I am sure that the various points of this House will be carefully examined, but the fundamental principle that our authorities have every means available to them to catch up with this type of person who poses a possible security threat must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u6	Mr President! Detention does not take place in Finland on a skewed basis, but when this is done, there are serious reasons for it, as we heard from Mrs Zyskowicz's comprehensive speech. Yes, from time to time these detained ones also escape for various reasons. Fortunately, so far, most of them have always been caught sooner or later. It is clear that this flaw in the law must be corrected and the authorities should be given the opportunity to use all the technical means in such a case, where a person who has already been found to be dangerous to society by a court decision is being sought and tried. Mr Zyskowicz gave a broad and well-founded background in this matter. We must also acknowledge to Mr Mäkelä that he has found such a flaw and that is what this bill lacks. I hope that this proposal will receive a favourable reception at the next hearing and that will eventually be the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u7	Mr President! The authorities must have the opportunity and means to ensure the safety of our citizens. Representative The draft law presented by Mäkelä is one step towards safer Finland. That is why I have also signed Mäkelä's bill, a representative of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u8	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä's bill, which I myself have signed, comes to the heart of the matter in the sense that we must start to reflect in this Chamber on how we can secure the citizens of Finland from a possible terrorist act such as Turku, which, for the first time, stopped us in the face of this issue. After all, we have often heard in committee about the use of these resources, such as the protection police and the police in the Department of Administration and Security, and it has often been said that the resources of the protection police currently go under the control of some 360 high-risk persons. In addition, there are 80 people among them who need to be followed up more intensively and tried to control what they do. In that sense, knowing how easy it is to disappear from control unless there is some kind of digital monitoring — the legislation has added it to the possibilities — it makes sense to add legislation such as that in which the police are given adequate conditions. We also know that these individual legislative initiatives are generally not successful, even if they have 100 signatures, as has often been seen in this Chamber and in this parliamentary work, that they are not available to the law. The only alternative now is for the members of the government parties to take this seriously and also for the minister to be able to be jointly informed that this issue will be raised in the context of some legislation. We must work together to make such legislation that protects the security and well-being of our common society in the short and long term, so let us not turn this into a government-opposition policy, but take this bill forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u9	Madam President! Mr Meri asked the parliamentary groups and the parties whether we were prepared to support the discussion initiative on internal security. I believe that the whole of Parliament is prepared to support it, because the subject matter is, of course, such that, not only at the moment, but also as a general continuation, the debate is in order. A variety of technical controls, monitoring in many ways, such as telephone tapping and various monitoring methods in the 1990s actually began to move forward very significantly. Data protection and many questions have always been there since, that can be taken forward, but one step at a time this side has moved forward, controlled but above all also with the needs of the authorities. With internationalism, we must also be able to look beyond the borders of the country. In this sense, Finland's internal security is not just our internal security, it is also extensive international cooperation, which can then be used to influence the fight against terrorism and the big issues of this kind. In this bill of the Mäkelä Act on the amendment of the law on coercive measures, specifically as regards telecommunications supervision and the acquisition of location data, there is, in a way, a very logical perspective. In Finland, for example, there are certain monitoring systems for prisoners on leave, and in this respect too, when Finland has the need to monitor people through its own decisions by the authorities, I find this very natural that other forms are being sought for it than that the person only has his own registration obligation. Every one of us knows that even if in those situations, when a person has not received asylum from Finland and is returning, it is very easy to disappear underground, so to speak. It is also an important issue for a person’s own legal protection and for the protection of his or her own life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u10	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Mäkelä for this legislative initiative to amend the law on coercive measures so that data on televising and location can be used to reach a foreigner who has disappeared or escaped from the detention facility. However, on this issue, which was raised by the representative Meri, i.e. the discussion initiative of the Finnish Parliament Group on Finland's internal security. Support has now come from here for this initiative, for its debate, for both governmental parties — thanks to Mrs Zyskowicz and Mrs Ross on my behalf. I hope that the opposition too will be supported. As we have heard here today, this internal security situation in Finland has unfortunately deteriorated, and citizens have also come to us representatives, probably all of us, that people are unfortunately afraid of moving out there, especially during the night, but why not during the day? In other words, I appeal to the whole of Parliament to have this debate here first and then, of course, to take concrete measures to improve safety. The True Finns have presented many of them. I hope that Parliament will also agree with them. I wish this bill a good, proper reading in committee. I hope there's a law on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u11	Mr President! I would like to thank the speakers for their good views and the good reception of the initiative. I have heard so much criticism of this bill already in the process, such as technical constraints, that monitoring and tracing prepaid subscriptions would not be particularly effective, but it then applies in the same way to the whole of the law on coercive measures and its range of means and did not specificise this bill. The fundamental problem with the application of the law on coercive measures is that, in particular, these secret coercive measures can only be used under the law to solve crimes and, in itself, to commit quite serious crimes which are condemned to severe sentences. I believe that this has led to a situation such as an intervention, which in fact has much in common with the problem of the intelligence law, that there may be acts that should be followed up and that may threaten security, but they are not, at the moment, crimes or serious crimes. It may also be that the intelligence law, if it is at some point laid down, provides a basis for resolving a problem such as this that has been presented in my bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-29-ps-96.u12	Mr President! A comment on a few points raised in the debate. Firstly, it is easy to agree with the point raised by Mrs Meren that it is good for Parliament to talk about internal security. But, in fact, from what Mr Ross said, I was inspired by the fact that internal and external security are very much linked in many ways in modern times. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, has heard the background to the Turun case, it has become apparent that there are countries whose police records of ordinary crimes are not used by other countries — it seems that in Germany there is no information from Lender about ordinary crime and so on to the central administration — and when we come across people who have done this and are on the move, we may not be able to use this background information. This will only help closer European cooperation and, when it comes to internal security, we should look very systematically at how, on the one hand, border controls are being developed forward in the European Union, but also at the exchange of information between the authorities, and that will also increase our internal security. We will then know what kind of background people are on the move here and how they have come to Finland and what they intend to do. Clearly, this European cooperation has failed, and I hope that anyone who talks about internal security will also include this European dimension and consider how we will strengthen European expertise in these matters.
