ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u1	The 3rd item of the order is the election of the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament. The Assistant Ombudsman shall be elected for a period of four years starting on 1 October 2017 and ending on 30 February 2021. Representatives have been given an extract from the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which includes the committee's assessment of those who have made themselves known. The applications of those who have signed up for the mission have been shown in the Central Office. The election will take place like the election of the President. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. The ballot shall contain only the name of the person to be elected, so clearly stated that there shall be no confusion about the person intended. The other kind of ballot will be rejected. The election will be held using one urn. The representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn in the order of roll call and in such a way that the contents of the flag are not visible. In the election ceremony, I request the following representatives: Ritva Elomaa, Elsi Katainen, Jukka Kopra and Antti Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u2	The result of the vote shall be declared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u3	When Dr Pasi Hölönen has received more than half of the votes cast, he has been elected as Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman for the term of office starting on 1 October 2017 and ending on 30 February 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The good turn of the Finnish economy is a fact. The economy grew by 1.4 per cent last year and this year, according to the current Ministry of Finance estimates, it will grow by 1.2 per cent. This 1.2% has been taken into account, among other things, the fact that economic growth at the end of last year was very low, almost zero, and then the fact that economic growth in the first few months of the year has been clearly faster. This has been done on the basis of the current best statistics and forecasts, and Finland has traditionally had a habit of relying on the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance’s National Economics Department, and the planning and budgeting of public finances is based on the assessment of the Department of Economics by the Ministry of Finance. However, this growth brings room to breathe. I am particularly pleased that unemployment is falling. More and more Finns will have the opportunity to work. This economic change is partly a result of the long-standing good momentum of the global economy and the euro area, but also partly due to the government's consistent agenda. Work has been given priority in decision-making and is now visible. However, it is equally true that our unemployment is still far too high, that our employment rate is too low to maintain a welfare society and that public finances are clearly in deficit. No matter what kind of economic growth rush from the world, we are still facing structural debt on the back of future generations. Again this year, the government is estimated to absorb some EUR 5.4 billion in debt. For these reasons, the gloves must by no means fall off now, but the work must be continued at all times. A decision by decision one month after the month and one year after the year we must continue responsible reforms — well thought-out reforms that allow many Finns to get to work, smart reforms that increase confidence in Finland and future-looking reforms that bring hope to Finland. Mr President! This amending budget contains small, good steps on the way to the future. The amending budget was made within the framework of the spending limits reserve, so it has no impact on the fiscal stance. I would like to raise a few examples of the key elements of the amending budget: The Government invests in supporting the positive restructuring of south-west Finland. Due to the Turku Shipyard and the New Town Car Factory, for example, things are now going well in south-west Finland. This is why the Government is investing in supporting this growth and the Government is proposing more money for technical education in Varsinais-Suomi for a total of EUR 20 million. All in all, there is a change of mentality in supporting growth. For years, we have had to make emergency packages for sudden structural change, but when there is clearly strong economic growth and its potential in a region, then it makes sense to invest in supporting its growth, realising it, strengthening the success of companies that are already on the wave of success, securing access to skilled labour and, among other things, investing in education and training, building a vision for the future success of these companies, which, in turn, gives faith in investment. Mr President! Supporting success also means caring for infrastructure. In order to support Finland’s competitiveness, good international contacts must be ensured. Finland is dependent on exports and also dependent on imports, and they need effective maritime transport. For this reason, an allocation of EUR 12.5 million is proposed for the Oulu Maritime Corridor project to deepen the corridor in order to increase the transport efficiency of the port. It is also proposed to increase the mandate and allocation of the Rauma Maritime Transport Project by EUR 2 million. The infrastructure will continue to be invested with a proposal of EUR 21 million for electrification of the New Town Track. The aim of electrification is to achieve cost savings in traffic and reduce safety and environmental risks in the Turku railway yard, for example. Mr President! Tourism is a very fast-growing industry worldwide, and tourism is also growing rapidly in Finland. Especially because of the proximity of St.Petersburg, Finland has special opportunities in tourism. A State subsidy of 3.5 million is proposed for the construction of the Kymi Ring Motorsport Centre, which is under construction to promote tourism. When implemented, international events of tens of thousands of people could be organised in Kymi Ring, bringing a lot of tourism income to the region and Finland. In this context, I would like to emphasise that any additional State aid is conditional on private funding being made available. Mr President! A few more picks: An additional EUR 10 million is proposed for the introduction of the active model of unemployment security, specifically for public employment and business services. In implementing the active model, it is important to help the unemployed and have sufficient resources. On the other hand, these funds are also needed to ensure that the three-monthly meeting of the unemployed, which has already taken effect since the beginning of the year — interviewing them, helping them, supporting them into working life — requires sufficient resources. It is proposed to increase military crisis management expenditure by around EUR 8.6 million, mainly in view of the continuation of the Iraqi training mission. An additional €22 million will be provided for the important social welfare reform, as well as for the establishment of information management and the preparation of the provinces and the growing expenditure of the interim administration. It is important that sufficient resources are available to prepare for the historic major regional reform. In connection with the social welfare reform, a budget of EUR 30 million will also be allocated to pilot projects for the freedom of choice of the customer. A special expenditure item is an agreement under preparation between the Finnish State and the Russian Federation on the acquisition of the property of the Finnish House in St.Petersburg to the Finnish State. Under the State Agreement, the acquisition of the object would be carried out on behalf of the State by Governmentia Oy, a special task company fully owned by the State. An appropriation of EUR 8.2 million is proposed for the capitalisation of Governia Oy. It is proposed to increase the State guarantee payments by 8.2 million after the creditor has withdrawn the loan related to the renovation of St.Petersburg's House in St.Petersburg, which maintains the Finnish Institute in St.Petersburg. Finally, I would like to comment on the following points: An increase of 1.6 million is proposed to the Natural Resources Centre for the renewal of its Savonlinna operations. This is part of Savonlinna region's attention because There have been special challenges in Savonlinna. Finally, an additional budget of EUR 1 million is proposed for the State's compensation for the administrative costs of farm entrepreneurs and fur producers. Mr President! Overall, there are a lot of technical corrections in the amending budget, a lot of things that are necessary. However, I believe that we have found and been able to choose good targets that support growth and create positiveness. But all this has been done in a spirit of strict, responsible fiscal policy, and perhaps I would draw attention to the fact that this amending budget will reduce the need for additional government borrowing by less than EUR 200 million. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u6	We're going to start the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u7	Mr President! This wind from the world now supports Finland's economy, and that is of course a good thing, and we are all happy about it. Of course, there is a big question mark in that, although this is the case, even though the wind from our main markets is blowing, the government's debt and employment objectives are running away. 80,000 out of employment, and indebtedness is three times higher in 2019 than in the government's own objectives. This shows that more action is now needed from the government. It is good that investments are being made in the region of Varsinais-Suomi, but, Minister of Finance, Finland is a complete one. Where are the other regions, where Pirkanmaa, North Karelia, where are the regions that now have prospects of new jobs and employment? Minister of Finance, Finland is a whole. We need all Finns
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u8	Mr President! It would be expected that the opposition, and especially the main opposition party, would sometimes see a little light at the end of the tunnel, in dealing with what the government has done. After all, the many measures taken by the government to strengthen competitiveness and to make spending savings have contributed to the growth of our economy. This budget is also almost historical in such a way as to reduce the need for government borrowing. In general, amending budgets increase government borrowing. Ten years ago, perhaps this has been the case that it has been possible to reduce. Positive things: For example, deepening the fairway of the port of Oulu to 12.5 metres is an important industrial project and this return of EUR 11 million of Kemera funding to this year's budget. This means that the important work in the forests there can continue and we will get raw material for our growing industrial investment in forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u9	Mr President! It is dishonest to accuse or praise a particular government of global trends. At the same time, we must be satisfied if there are positive signs of employment or the economy. The low economic cycle that has continued since 2008 up to these days is falling. But in the same breath it must be said that slow growth is new normal and there is no long upswing coming nor in sight. A good example of this is the Handelsbanken estimates that the global economy is already beginning to decline and that next year the global economic cycle is beginning to deteriorate. It can be rightly said that Finland got a grip on the international rise, but close to the finish line. I therefore encourage the government to reform the tax system as a whole, energy reform, basic income, better coordination of land use, transport, housing, reform of earnings-related social security, inclusive local reconciliation of workers and smart public procurement. The more we do these reforms together in parliamentary terms, the more
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u10	Mr President! Indeed, spring has been a time for positive news on economic development, and it has also been a good basis for these supplementary budget decisions, but it is good to remember, as Mrs Aalto said, that we are living in a time of slow growth and that we must continue on the road to structural reforms. There is certainly still a lot of pressure on the labour market and elsewhere in the autumn. But with regard to this amending budget, I must say that there are surprisingly many positive things here that will certainly bring about the necessary growth and development. I personally would like to raise this EUR 22 million increase in social and regional reform from here, which will be put into this establishment of information management and preparatory work for the provinces. I think it is important that this money is already in place during the preparation process before the interim administration starts, and this was an important decision in the sense that this development in transport is being achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u11	Mr President! The opposition does not deny that the figures are on a positive increase. It is particularly important that the government, through its own actions, has done some things that have contributed to the development that has taken place, but of course it must be acknowledged that the growth of the world economy has been the engine that has contributed to it. I would have liked this amending budget, as the Ministry of Finance sees it, to have made a strong contribution to the creation of the step by which our growth companies, who have created the product, produce industrial products that can be exported and thus create new industrial jobs in this country. It is now missing in its entirety and it is missing from this government line. There are only words shouted into the wind. That's what I would have liked to have been more invested in,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u12	Mr President! Indeed, I must say that there are a lot of positive things in this amending budget. And as the Minister of Finance has already mentioned about this positive structural change, it is nice that there are figures of this kind, because in general we are used to these negative restructuring packages which have had to react to those negative issues. But just as colleagues have said before, we must remember that Finland is a whole. Of course, as a former Finnish citizen, I am glad that that direction is going fast, but then, on the other hand, there are still areas in Eastern Finland with deep unemployment. In that sense, this model of the TE Centres, which was presented here in Parliament last week — this new model of regional government, in which responsibility for regional development would be transferred to the regions and very much to the companies — raises concerns as to whether this whole will be seen in the future in such a way that these employment issues can be seen in Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u13	Mr President! We Finns should be pleased that the competitiveness of Finnish work and production has improved. It has accelerated economic growth. And these government measures, which are included in this additional budget, will increase the competitiveness of these new sectors. New training will be created, which will then reflect more widely, not just in Varsinais-Suomi. The whole shipbuilding industry is networked very far into the whole empire. Therefore, it is valuable and important to give additional injections that produce new work and new activity. We should be pleased that we have been able to work together to improve Finland's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u14	Mr President! It is very good that this economic change has taken place. There is, of course, the background, as the Minister for Finance mentioned, to these international economic cycles. In fact, these economic growth figures started to improve in spring 2015 and employment figures in autumn 2015. It's a good thing we keep going. It is also good that the Commission, in its own assessment of Finland, granted us an exemption for this structural deficit. What is noteworthy is that reference was made to the pension solution, which was launched during the last parliamentary term and which was concluded here in Parliament during this parliamentary term, and to the competitiveness pact. Both are thanks to the social partners, which have made a significant contribution to this. But, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister when you failed to mention entirely the sale of these state-owned companies in your own speech: what is happening to Neste and Vapo? Can we not now find elements in both of these elements for a steady distribution of this growth into Finland, building conditions for decent growth in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u15	Honorable Speaker! Mr Myllykoski's argument that this government does not support piloting and demonstration facilities must be corrected as a first step. Actually, we're giving you 10 million. To Tekes for this kind of activity. The economy is growing, unemployment is falling — what is the problem? The competitiveness pact is what has brought this about. In other words, Finland's competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries has improved considerably at the same time as investment in both the private industry and the public sector is increasing, and this will lead to a positive outcome. Consumers have a record level of confidence. We've got 45,000 more jobs here in two years. Further measures will then be taken to increase the purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes and to create more jobs in the service sector. Tourism 4.0 is a good project, bringing jobs to Lapland and Eastern Finland. And at the end of the day, I applaud the depth of the port of Oulu. These transport projects:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u16	Mr President! Yes, it is high time that we commend the government and also the excellent work of the Minister for Finance. Here, the opposition’s row of benches made a claim that the growth of the world economy has led to a rise in Finland’s growth. Perhaps there is some truth to this, but as statistics are examined in more detail, the world economy has been growing for ten years, but we are only starting to grow now. It is therefore obvious that government action is now beginning to bite. This is where the government has made good decisions to improve competitiveness, and that is how we can achieve growth. Of course we know and remember that crying on the opposition bench has been hard when these difficult decisions have been made, and now I am sure that the atmosphere is embarrassing and dwindling there when the result is finally beginning to come. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance for these good details, transport policy solutions. These deep passage measures are good, and a special thanks to Kymi Ring. It will certainly improve the competitiveness of the region in south-eastern Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u17	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Government and the Minister of Finance Orpo for their ability to react to a situation that differs from the usual and unfortunate formula by which Finnish governments have had to react to sudden structural changes, which have been a strong sign less than for both jobs and the economy of the region. The situation has now been quite the opposite in Varsinais-Suomi, and it has been called for a surprising and rapid response to a situation where structural change is positive: the growth gauge is visible several years away, and the number of new jobs is being reduced by thousands or rather by tens of thousands. This has been an important issue for entrepreneurs in the region. The shortage of skilled labour has been a real tragedy, unlike the difficult stages of previous years. I am particularly grateful for the decision to electrify the New Town Track. It is a Turku-based safety issue from the point of view of the railway yard, but it is also a training effort up to the training of top-level engineers,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u18	Mr President! Increasing employment and reducing unemployment in Finland is now a fact and a good signal for the future, yes. As a representative of the Finnish Parliament, I am also very pleased that the Government and Minister Orpo understand to invest 20 million in education. And then this Uki-Turku interrail is electrified, it's a great thing. Now I would like to ask the Minister: what about the passenger traffic there, will it also be invested in in the near future? It's important. And then there's one thing I'm wondering: The Greens have put forward an initiative to the forthcoming party assembly to reduce, in fact, the relief services for farmers during the transitional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u19	Mr President! Positive structural change and its support is certainly a good thing, but it cannot mean that in areas of negative structural change localities will not continue to be supported. In Savonlinna, this government abolishes 900 positions from the teacher education institution, and that means the same as if Helsinki were to be abolished half of the study places at the University of Helsinki. And when we count back a few years and the fact that we have also had university of applied sciences and the international communications department abolished, together this effect will be the same as if the 30,000 student seats of the University of Helsinki, all student seats here in Helsinki, were to be abolished. That is, Savonlinna if what is in the grip of a very negative structural change and gets only crumbs in this appendix. That is why I ask, Minister Orpo: is there anything more coming for Savonlinna in future plans?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u20	Mr President! In this Chamber, we are easily exaggerating on both sides, in other words, the opposition in general is too critical, and there is also a risk of over-emphasizing matters in the case of the government. Although the KD has been involved in supporting the creation of a competitiveness pact and believes that in the long term it will lead to a good result, I do not believe that this economic growth will be based on it. We need to see what different research institutes are analyzing. It clearly shows that Finland's recent growth has been due in particular to private consumption and construction. If we take a few comparisons, at the rate of growth in Sweden, Finland's GDP would be EUR 40 billion higher than it is today and Germany's growth rate would be EUR 23 billion higher. What I want to say is that the government deserves to be commended for making good decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u21	Mr President! It is now a question of the fact that, despite this global economic climate, the government itself admits that it will not achieve its debt objective or its employment objective. You yourself, Mr Orpo, have just said that, since debt continues, the gloves must not fall off. But, Minister, I think that more of the problem is now showing itself to be half a term of office and the gloves are barely even in hand. [Right : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u22	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, there is now a difference between what happened earlier in the night and the day. Your turn has happened. It is honest to admit that the recovery of the world economy will help Finland, but it is also dishonest to claim, Mr Oppostio, that government action would not help this growth and employment. We have an increase in employment, we have a reduction in unemployment. Consumers' confidence in the economy rose to a record this month, the best figure since 1995. Mr President! I would like to thank you for your efforts in education and also for lowering the car tax, because its profits are now rising, which means that the government will receive more when the tax has been reduced. And the special thanks for this Kymi Ring — not Kimi Ring — which now brings significant growth and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u23	Mr President! It is indeed worth noting that the world economy has developed in a positive direction, especially in our main markets. However, it is quite clear that when investing in Finland — a huge investment boom is on the way, as the opposition president, Mr Lindtman, has probably noticed — it is worth taking the facts into account by the way they are — not investing in a country that has no future in the economy. This is also worth recalling Mr Lindtman's strong political opinion. Representative Heli Järvinen here recently suspected that the government had abolished something in Savonlinna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u26	Mr President! I was looking at the employment report from April and there is something positive to read. Unemployment is decreasing in all age groups, and I was delighted to see the long-term unemployed and young people. Unemployment is also falling in all areas of the Ely Centres, which means that there was talk of Kainuu, Pirkanmaa, Southern Ostrobothnia and Central Finland, and quite a lot of declines in Pirkanmaa as much as 20 per cent. These are significant alenemias. We all know that when we get more taxpayers, we will get that cake and then we can go back to the economy and the situation that we can even improve benefits. On this subject, I said last week that the government's employment objective will run away. It is true that the objective must be set high enough, otherwise it can be reached immediately and it makes no sense. And yet the direction is the right one, quite different from that of the last period, when unemployment increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u27	We will take the following comments: Mr Filatov and Mr Zyskowicz. Then the Minister's answer, and then we'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u28	Mr President! When the economy starts to rise, it will take some time for employment to improve. And when employment begins to improve, the signs of the recession are still visible on the social side. I hope that the government will not forget this social recession, which is much longer than the situation we are talking about. I am always glad that more money is being offered for labour policy. I'm sure those of you who've been in this room for a long time know that. But this time I was amazed at that entry in the budget, because it says 'implementing the active model of unemployment security' for this high point 51 of the TEM. As the active model of unemployment benefit does not exist yet. It is obviously coming from the government in the autumn as legislation, and it is a question of cutting earnings-related unemployment benefit for people who cannot find work or active measures for themselves. I am therefore surprised that we are opening up a new practice, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u29	Mr President! The economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, and consumers and entrepreneurs have exceptionally high confidence in the economy. In this situation, the chairman of the Social Democrats, Mrs Rinne, called for the resignation of the government in her May Day speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u34	Now we will take Minister Orpo, five minutes, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u35	Mr President! First of all, on this situation: The growth is indisputable, so the recession can be said to be behind it. Growth has started, yes, since 2015. But growth is still relatively modest, but if we can keep up the much more positive figures over the last few months, that is to say, growth on a sustainable basis is higher than 1.2 to 1.5, then we can truly think that we will be able to get to the point where unemployment is falling even faster and that we will be able to break the debt even faster. Instead, you could say that the trend is currently that, Mr Lindtman, we now have a chance. We will continue to pursue a determined policy, achieving the objectives of the government. The first ones were running away because progress was slower. This I have said many times here, it is not news. During the first two years, progress was slower. Now we have clear signs of stronger growth, but we must support it and continue to take more measures. In the absence of action by the government to increase employment, there are a few: We have reduced the tax burden on labour by around one billion, including a reduction in earnings of 450 million for people on low and middle incomes. These have been very important solutions if you believe that giving people more money, their own money by leaving them, spending more, doing better and improving employment. If you believe in this, then reducing the tax burden on labour is a good thing. We have been promoting the creation of a kiky agreement, for which I would like to thank the social partners very much, and it will improve the price competitiveness of our exports, which will certainly support our employment in the medium term. I would argue that this is currently reflected in the amount of investment. We have reduced the threshold for employment by means of various legislative changes. We have made reforms in the area of unemployment security. We've freed up shop opening hours. We're opening up pharmacy regulation. Hopefully, alcohol law will proceed in the same way. We are constantly working on the growth of the economy, Finland's economy is becoming more dynamic, so that jobs are created for us, in order to create a belief in the future, in order to invest, in order to have the courage to hire. The fact that the spending limits debate had the courage, and now also in the amending budget, to make clear investments in education and training in order to ensure access to skilled labour, and the fact that significant investment was made in spending limits in decisions on the Academy of Finland and Tekes, is the most important thing at the moment, I would say: investing in opportunities and conditions for longer-term growth, the prerequisites for higher competences. [Left: Why was it cut?] But, Mr President, a few more comments: Decisions of principle have already been taken on the increases in the power of Neste and Vapo state-owned companies, and they are now being brought to Parliament's attention. But that does not mean that these sales are being made now and here, but it is an authority, and the government should wisely use these powers at the right time. I believe that every time state property is sold, care must be taken to ensure that these funds are used wisely to strengthen new sustainable growth and employment. Mr Rinne also raised the Commission's assessment. It was indeed a good thing that the Commission saw the structural reforms that have been made in Finland, in other words, in Finnish society more broadly but also in government. They had strong faith that Finland would be able to solve the major structural problems that exist in our economy and thereby break our debt and put public finances on a sustainable footing. We cannot have any other objective. We must continue to pursue a strict fiscal policy line, which is what we are doing here. Again, I draw attention to the fact that debt for the first time in God knows how long
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u36	Mr President! I was laughing when I was reading President Orpo’s speeches at the Council meeting. He obviously had not read the whole speech that it was simply a question of the Prime Minister saying that 'out or out' — if you do not achieve your goals, then you have to leave. Yes, the fact is that this government has unfairly cut off citizens, people who are disadvantaged. This government has cut huge amounts of education, research, product development and innovation. Now a little bit has been returned, a little bit of leftovers, that if ten have been cut, then one will be returned. That is not going to fix this situation. The government has not managed to change direction in terms of fiscal imbalances, as regards debt, as regards employment rates. These nice, good signs at the moment in the economy are very positive. We are all pleased that the economy is growing and employment is improving, but we still have a lot to do, as you yourself said. The problem is,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u37	Mr President! The fact is that during the previous parliamentary term consumption was maintained with debt money
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u38	Mr President! A few comments on employment: The positive thing is that, as Mr Meri also pointed out, employment has increased. I watched a series of seasonal and random variations that showed an increase in the number of employed persons in 16,000 people. That is an absolute good thing. But the worse thing is that the tide of high water can turn in the other direction very quickly, and then we will be in a stalemate again if major structural reforms are not possible. The time for reforms is now when the economy seems to be doing a little better. The long-term picture of the economy is gloomy if reforms are not possible. In the future, we will probably see more and more a situation in which employment rates are increasing but the number of people employed is not increasing. This is due to the decline of the working-age population, which in turn poses major challenges to the dependency ratio. Mr President! Another point to note is that the fall in unemployment rates may also indicate that more and more people are excluded from the labour force. This phenomenon, for example, is the subject of a delegation from the business community.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u39	Mr President! It is very important that this undeniable growth in the economy and employment and a good trend be brought to the public's sense that it would then also strengthen their confidence in the future, increase their purchasing power, and thereby strengthen and give further impetus to this good development. That is why it is important that this House, too, should become a united signal that the direction of the economy and employment is the right one, being motivated both by the world economy and by the good deeds of this government, including the competitiveness pact. I am also pleased with the efforts that have now been made, for example, in the area of regional reform and social security: over 50 million for their establishment, monitoring, support for information systems and everything that is now happening in the provinces in those major reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u40	Mr President! It is a good thing for everyone in Finland that the government's working line bites, and more and more Finns get to work. One might even think that this is a bit of a grievances to the opposition, but I do not believe it. I believe you are also pleased that the country is moving forward. It is important for structural reform to receive additional funds in this amending budget, which we are dealing with. There will be EUR 22 million for the construction of the temporary administration of the provincial administration and the establishment of information systems. I now appeal to the fact that, when the number of regions is large and they are very different in size, it is important that this money be distributed in such a way that population-basedness is also one criterion. Here I am strongly referring to the new country, which is the largest province. It is good that the freedom of choice pilots are moving forward. EUR 100 million is now available for freedom of choice pilots, but those criteria which have been published are such that they are not suitable for the new country or other major regions. I hope that the government will take the view that this implementation will:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u41	Mr President! I have always believed that you, Mr Orpo, are part of a rather large artillery group, a group of representatives from south-west Finland, but I was a little disappointed because the project of both Pori and Turku has been to provide money for this positive restructuring, and the liquidator also explained how the restructuring of south-west Finland can be carried forward. But I congratulate you on your efforts to make money for the restructuring of Varsinais-Suomi now. But south-west Finland did not, and I was a little surprised when one boat here was talking for this positive restructuring and this is what the liquidator said. But we should now find comparisons for this good project all over Finland, because other regions need seed money, not just Satakunta as the first queuer, but certainly in Savonlinna and also in Tampere and many other areas of Finland, in Eastern Finland, we need to invest in the regional economy in the name of growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u42	Mr President! After all, economic change is a fact. We've moved from minus to plus. According to the latest data, consumer confidence is at a record high. I do not think there is any point in arguing, at least for a very long time, about who's merit and the reasons for this. I'm glad you're getting up. However, this is a positive surprise for all of us. The West Coast, Varsinais-Suomi and upwards, has received most of the fruits of growth. All right, that's what's going to happen, because it's going to spread all over Finland through subcontracting chains, and in this way it's going to benefit the whole country. My question is, Mr Finance Minister: When this positive thing, what has been seen here, however, is the beginning, how will you react to next autumn, because there will still be some big decisions? A budget must be made, it is time for labour market solutions, and they can then put more power into this well-started economic growth and improved employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u43	Mr President! The employment rate in the Nordic countries has been significantly better than in Finland permanently and for a long time. Various international economic institutions have identified Finland’s structural rigidity as an exceptionally severe obstacle to growth. Local agreement is waiting for itself, they want to stick to universality, but when the Constitution guarantees freedom of contract, I believe that, if there is a general commitment in a sector, participation in it should be voluntary, that is, not automatic, as it is at present, but anyone who wants to join a general commitment from either the worker or the employer should express himself in this respect. Otherwise, the Constitution cannot be considered a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u44	Mr President! At the same time as the sun rises, the cock crows, but is the sunrise due to the crowing of the rooster? What is the reason and what is the result easily gets confused. The decline in the labour force has not improved competitiveness. After all, Prime Minister Sipilä has already taken credit for the orders in Turku Shipyard, but in fact the yard's manager Meyer said in a word: 'Because we cannot be the cheapest, we must be the best'. Knowledge is our strength, and it is right that this human capital be increased in the Turku region, Varsinais-Suomi,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u47	Mr President! This Parliament has had to make many very difficult decisions, but they largely lead to the right direction for Finland's economy. Unemployment is still a serious human and social problem in Finland, but fortunately, at the end of April, there were 37,000 fewer unemployed job seekers in Finland than one year ago. Unemployment has fallen throughout the country and in several sectors, which is exactly the opposite of what was still seen during the last government term. Mr President! One important factor for this increase in employment is the large-scale reduction in income tax of billions. They have led to an increase in consumption. According to this amending budget, VAT revenue will rise by nearly EUR 190 million and car tax revenue by more than EUR 50 million per year, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u48	Mr President! I would like to make a few corrections to one aspect which has also been slightly overlooked here in the debate. It has been mentioned here that an amount of EUR 1 million would be allocated to administrative expenditure. That is the case in some papers, but in fact that additional money goes to support the survival of farmers, which has been allowed to be carried out by the money shown in the agricultural crisis package. Luke, the Natural Resources Centre, published today a report on the importance of the food chain for the national economy and regions in Finland. The food sector brings 340,000 jobs to all parts of Finland and produces EUR 15 billion in value added, or 9 per cent of the value added of the whole country. Farmers are the first and most important link in the food chain and there are no other links in the food chain without them, so thank you to the government for this additional money to continue the Care Farmer project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u49	Mr President! As has been said here, it can always be argued who is to blame for what is. It is clear, however, that the economy has now turned to growth, and we can all be pleased with that. However, there are times when I am a little surprised by the opposition's criticism when you say that the government has cut too much, and then you say that the spiral of debt has not been stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u52	Mr President! Although there are some specific good things in the proposal, such as funding for highway 12 and, at the same time, Kymi Ring, there is also an eternity of criticism. In this amending budget, too, we are providing additional money for the costs of asylum tourism. It is sad that, in the midst of all the savings and tight predictions for Finns, the government is once again bringing a proposal for additional money for reception, now 15 million. Doesn't this shoveling of money ever stop? I have suggested before that the cost of this phenomenon, with its multiplier effects, should be brought together as a clear point in the budget. This would allow us, as Members of Parliament and, in particular, the citizens, to see the price of this phenomenon in euros and to compare it with services provided by society or cuts in services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u53	Mr President! It is quite true that Finland is a large entity made up of different regions and we must take care of everyone. I would like to thank the Government for this effort by the Natural Resources Centre, EUR 1.6 million, to make the subject of the Natural Resources Centre Savonlinna a strategic location, and also for a fair package of EUR 24 million earlier. Of course, we would like to see more training places. But I would also like to address this debate on economic growth, which is a fact, but this government has really done a lot. Small businesses, for example, can now manage VAT on a fee-based basis, entrepreneurship reduction exists, investment started to rise after kiky, and historically large structural reforms exist. I'd like to ask Mr. Rinte how the demos would solve our challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u54	Let me give the following answers to this section: Lindtman, Jokinen and Kalli. Then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u55	Mr President! After all, this turn of growth took place as follows: this started with construction and private consumption when the big projects were launched in 2015, and now that there is a wind in the world economy, especially in the main markets, this is starting to come to the side of exports, and that is good. It could be concluded from all the acclaim that the government would finally achieve these economic and employment objectives, which it has set itself, but in fact what Mr Multala and Mr Heikkinen have said is proof of what is at stake. When Multala wonders that even though cuts have been made, despite the fact that debt is growing, Heikkinen says: the government distributes the fruits of growth, among other things, by means of these pharmacy reductions, and that is why, despite this turn of growth, the government fails to achieve its economic goals and the debt problem is left to the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u56	Mr President! It is true that there has been a turnaround in the economy and a turnaround in employment. For example, the estimate of tax revenue can now be increased by 490 million, and that is a lot. Whether or not this economic turnaround is the result of the government, I am not arguing about it, but it is at least thanks to the government that the government has now recognised and recognised this situation and is making clear investments in growth, knowledge, employment and business services in this amending budget, and then I infranc where it is seen that growth can still be achieved. For example, from infrastructure: Deepening the port routes that are important for foreign exports, the port of Oulu, Rauma, the port of Vuosaari, which will increase our international competitiveness, or the investments of Highway 12 on the transversal route that is important for business and the electrification of the New Town railway. These are the ones with which the government is now speeding up this growth and the good development of employment that has been achieved, and that is what must be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u57	Mr President! In the big picture of the economy, predictability and stability is the one that keeps consumers and entrepreneurs' confidence in the economy high, and surely the government has something to do with what is this big picture. My question is, in fact, a follow-up to Mrs Kääriäinen's question. However, since this amending budget will be able to maintain this confidence in the autumn of this year with many different contributions, in the autumn we will be faced with issues relating to how our competitiveness will develop from there and what it will have to do with this employment rate, which, however, is very important for all of us. I ask you, Minister Orpo, how do you see this coming autumn, whether the Finns as a whole have control over it, and will it be possible to further strengthen predictability?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u58	Minister Orpo, five minutes, and we'll see if there's still a need for a debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u59	Mr President! First, there are a few specific things: This electrification of the New Town railway opens up the possibility that it can also be developed for passenger traffic and that it can also be improved in every way. Tampere T3: It is coming true. That's OKM doing a big job, and a big thank-you goes to Tampere. OKM also participates financially in it. But this is OKM's answer and he can tell us more. Active model: Yes, 1.10. is the government's aim to put the active model into effect, but the government can also allocate funds for various purposes. We do not yet have a regional model, but we also reserve tens of millions here to do it. So this is how I understand this budgetary technique. As regards Savonlinna, one more time: So it is the University of Eastern Finland, which has made the decision, and according to university law they have that power of decision. Here came 1.6 million for the Natural Resources Centre in Savonlinna. In addition, OKM has taken measures to increase starting places in other schools in the Savonlinna region. I am still referring here to the fact that OKM has made these decisions, but the matter has been on the board of the government and the agency. But then we come to this overall view: So the economy is growing, not enough. There are still too many unemployed people. We'll have to do more. We are doing more at every turn, one click at a time in the right direction. Clear solutions were made in the budgetary plan for the dismantling of incentives traps, among other things. I would like to remind you of the significant reduction in early childhood education fees. It is estimated that this mid-term budgetary review will lead to an increase of 8,000 new jobs. Again, we took a number of important measures to improve employment. In the budget next autumn we will be prepared to take further action. Then comes the next budgetary plan, because there is no silver bullet to solve this issue at once. But in the autumn, the social partners are actually going through their union rounds. I very much hope that, within the framework of peace at work, moderate solutions will be found in support of employment and competitiveness. Solutions that support employment and competitiveness are now everything. It is a matter for the social partners, and I hope that these solutions will be found responsibly throughout Finland, especially with the unemployed who have not worked in those areas where growth is stronger. But this is a big deal, because if the benefits of the competitiveness pact and the price paid by the workers in it were now to be liquidated by solutions that would not support employment or competitiveness, that would be a very serious damage. Now to this positive structural change: I think it is absolutely essential to support it, and I believe that there is a consensus here in itself. Congressman Kiuru asked about this situation in the Satakunta. I believe that these proposals are based very far on those of the liquidators. In any case, when it comes to the maritime industry and its training needs, it is there in the district of Satakunta, Varsinais-Suomi. I believe that these solutions will benefit the whole region, and I am quite convinced of that. But then the rest of Finland: I think it would be great for us to have more stories where we can support positive structural change. During the last government, the government supported a positive restructuring process, i.e. the launch of an investment in the Äänekoski plant. I thought it was something like that. The more we get these, where we can act and support that investments start... That's a wise policy. But in other parts of Finland, the bioeconomy and circular economy create entirely new opportunities. The rise of the mining industry in Finland creates new opportunities. We have telecommunications connections that allow any international company to run from Kainuu, Poland. It's possible. We have great food production, the best farmers in the world, the cleanest food in the world. We have opportunities all over Finland when we support it, and I think the government's policy is very successful in this. If we stick to a strict fiscal policy line and if developments are still such that we will be able to maintain purchasing power through moderate tax solutions in the autumn, then I would consider it a very good objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u60	Apparently, there's still a little bit of a need for a debat, so we're gonna take a short debatation tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u61	Mr President! There was a rise in tax revenue here just now. It is good that they are growing, but around EUR 220 million of that EUR 500 million comes from the solutions made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Urplainen, in 2012 in the information system development project, changes related to the periodicity of inheritance and gift taxation. Mr Orpo, you have said on several occasions now that reforms are needed in relation to the future. I agree exactly that we have to turn our eyes to that future. I would like to see a rapid reform of the parental leave system. In particular, it would strengthen the employment of young women, improve equal pay. I think it would really make sense now to think about raising compulsory school age. It costs between EUR 20 million and EUR 30 million per age group and would achieve the best result, from the point of view of consensus among all economists, for these people who have completed basic education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u62	Honorable Speaker! There are actually four major questions here: how to maintain economic growth, how to maintain competitiveness, how to maintain consumer purchasing power and this positive, good employment development. In fact, these first three questions are the main ones that must be answered when we move towards this autumn's debate on the budget and the decisions that are being taken there. In my opinion, the only real alternatives are that somehow we can maintain that consumer purchasing power by taking measures of the same type as we have done in the past. In other words, this reduction in earnings of 450 million, which has been given, has sustained the purchasing power of consumers. It has then stimulated economic growth again. These are big questions. Fortunately, we have a lot more tools at our disposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u63	Mr President! The Minister of Finance said that financial support could be provided in advance for certain activities. This is absolutely true. For example, in the provincial administration, this temporary administration, when the law is in the parliament. When Parliament decides on the budget, it knows what that money will be spent on. But in this active unemployment benefit model, we have no law. We have a draft and we also have a draft growth service which, among other things, proposes to delete the interviews to which you have just referred and said that they are part of the active job security model, in that draft. I therefore hope that you will see to it that the key projects that have been positive in government policy come into that growth service law. Although the Act on Freedom of Choice did not change much from the draft, my fear is that the Act on Growth Services will not change either. But I think it would be reasonable if Parliament decided to put EUR 10 million in the active model of unemployment security, it would have that model and not that it is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u64	Mr President! I am always confused when I listen to Mr Rinne's comments, especially this barking about fiscal imbalances. Public finances have been unbalanced for a decade. You reproached the Prime Minister, you hope that he will resign when in two years the government has not managed to correct that enormous imbalance. You shouldn't do surgery, and you shouldn't take debt. You're criticizing both of you. What the hell is the way to make that big change? Well, one big thing has already been done, and this is the future social reform to try to put this big thing right by 2030. Give me a good time for this. We have made many economic signs turn. Let us be happy because all of these will help us in this, that Finland will rise. We have the opportunity to support
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u65	Mr President! Here we all welcome this good locomotive station for the Finnish economy in the south-west of Finland. Of course, we hope that this whole will be taken into account: from there, however, it is a long way from Eastern Finland to move after work to south-west Finland, and many times the difficulties come from whether the spouse and children are able to follow and the like. In that sense, one must only hope that the reform of the vitality services that this regional reform brings will not go badly into the forest now, but will indeed continue to be viewed from different parts of Finland. But, in fact, I would like to throw one topical point at the Ministry of Finance: I know that there is currently a tough debate within the government on future alcohol policy, and I am sure that the Ministry of Finance could be calculated on that side of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as to how enormous amounts will have to be added to that side in the future if the government now moves forward with that planned proposal. I'd like to see some sense and patience in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u66	Mr President! I was still wondering whether the economic situation was correctly understood both in this and in the last term of government. I believe that the truth is the one that does not burn in the fire, and in that regard, for example, when we look at it last time, we will find the demand of opposition President Sipilä in which he in the mid-term debate insisted that the then Prime Minister Katainen should resign because the objectives of his government had not yet been achieved. Compared to the last government and this government, the last government was balancing the economy with EUR 5 billion, and it hurt, I know from experience. On the other hand, during the last government term the deficit was almost halved. Now that we look at the objectives of this government, we must say that, when the Prime Minister said that either the result will come or he will go — this is what he called a new political culture — we would of course have been pleased,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u67	Mr President! Indeed, as Minister Orpo quite rightly mentioned, for example, in the case of Mr Äänekoski, the bioeconomy has taken huge steps forward. When the Committee on Economic Affairs submitted a report on Finland's energy and climate strategy by 2030, it was quite clear to the whole committee that Finland's bioeconomy is our new growth sector quite clearly. At that committee meeting, I would like to thank Mrs Ihalainen, Mrs Skinner and Mrs Ojala-Niemela, representatives of the committee who were present for the demars, who strongly supported the almost unanimous report. It was the right thing to do, because it must be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that when the forest industry is doing well, it brings more jobs to the metal industry, to the chemical industry, to all Finnish industry, because it is a raw material that is needed for many industrial products. Mr President! Finally, the consumer confidence indicator, which has just been published, is at its best right now after 95 years of measuring these. They are now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u68	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to a theme that has not been discussed very much here, that is to say that the additional budget is intended to give the power to reduce ownership in Neste and Vapo, in line with previous guidelines. State ownership should not now be an ideological matter in either direction or another, i.e. it could be said unanimously here, as Mr. Henri Parkkinen, Head of Stock Research at OP, as early as October, in the Economic Life magazine, which said that the state's large shareholding in Neste has been a useful thing and has made it even possible for the company to take the big steps towards biofuels in 2007, which no other privately owned oil company dared to go. Thus, as a long-term, long-term owner, the state is at best able to refine the value of its own ownership so that, this spring, it will receive almost EUR 170 million in dividend income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u69	I would now like to add the following answers: Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Viitanen. Then the Minister's reply, then the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u70	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mrs Rinne had to leave, but apparently Mrs Kiuru was pleased with the May Day speech by Mrs Rinte, so I will continue with this subject a little further. I agree with the opposition that, despite the economic turn and the current economic growth, we are not on the path to, for example, employment and debt, and that this requires further government action to support employment and growth. But this Social Democrats' May Day about the fact that once the Prime Minister has said the result or out, then now would be the right time to go out and throw the gloves on the table is an incomprehensible requirement. The economy is moving in the right direction, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, confidence is strong for consumers and entrepreneurs. In fact, I ask Minister Orpo: what would it lead to if the Prime Minister were now to resign?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u71	Mr President! It is all right that Mr Zyskowicz, like the government, admits that there is no career, and I think it is very serious. The Government's own activity report, page 55, states that the indebtedness target, the central government deficit target, the general government and the structural deficit target will not be met. They will not happen, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Orpo, and then there will be serious consideration. And the direction that has now been taken is the reason why they do not come true. You cut off low incomes, the purchasing power of pensioners is at a disadvantage, there will be cuts to basic security — here the purchasing power was announced. These have not been positive solutions. And now that you are here declaring that education is being invested in: In fact, the investments that would be the future contribution to education are also cancellations of previous decisions. When there are figures here that the other hand will take EUR 10 and then give the euro back, it cannot be said that it is a real effort. Here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u72	Minister Orphan, 3 minutes, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u73	Mr President! Congressman Filatov's gone. This active model HE has been on the statements for three weeks now, it is coming from there and agreed within the government. I think it is justified that this appropriation should be earmarked for its introduction at this stage. I think it makes sense to do that. President! We always have this same conversation. In other words, the government notes that economic growth and the improvement in employment are not yet sufficient to meet the demands of the government itself. I've been saying it about this toilet a hundred times, and I'm sure I've always said that we're doing more, we're doing more at every turn, and that's what we've been doing. But it is equally undeniable that the economy has turned to growth. If it left during the previous government, why not, we were there too. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u74	Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u75	Mr President! I would have just said to the Minister that, unfortunately, he was just about to leave, that this is the greatest concern and fear that these much-awaited social models as they are now being brought by the government, unfortunately, in the opinion of a large number of experts, are increasing inequalities and becoming very expensive. They will be very expensive, so it may be that there will still be some lumps in front of us when we look. As far as these regional reforms and others are concerned, of course, I would also like to ask Mr Vapaavuori for his opinion on these matters, for example, that what excellent reforms and cost-effective ones are now coming. In other words, unfortunately — and I would not like to say this so pessimisticly — it seems that many of the government’s own restructuring will, however, lead to undesirable consequences, i.e. an increase in expenditure rather than actual savings on these planned models. President! We have had a lot of consultations in that Committee on Finance on this economic situation within the framework, and today we started this amending budget. What really worries me is what I shall repeat when the Minister repeated many times that it is extremely serious that the government, despite this windfall, will not achieve its goal of debt or employment. I am very concerned when, for example, Etla's expert, Mrs Vipriälä, has also told us in public that if we do not take further action quickly already during the summer, because the spending limits were modest, we will be in a situation in the autumn when the government should make further cuts. This is an absolutely appalling idea in that we already know that these unfair cuts have, on the contrary, acted in an economy which is chilling as if pushing it forward. And all this is due to the fact that the government has not taken the employment objective seriously and, on the other hand, is not capable of decision-making, it is not able to carry out the necessary reforms. President! I cannot help but commenting on the matter that came here a moment ago, namely this reform of the alcohol law, which has now been very topical today. I do not know the latest situation — there has been a great deal of effort in the news to see which parliamentary group of government parties at any time accepts what compromises. The situation seems somewhat unclear. But now that the government is well known for canceling these silly proposals, I think it would also be worth analysing how much these planned costs, both in terms of public health and then, for example, because of the need to increase the number of police officers, will actually result in costs. I'm sure this is a place of withdrawal, too, as it were. President! As far as this cancellation is concerned, I think it is in itself a good thing that the government is cancelling its foolish affairs, but that withdrawal cannot be the only line in these reforms. What happens now is that when the government says that education is now being invested, it is actually just a minor cancellation of a massive cut in education. Well, I'm glad we're going to cancel a little bit, but I'm afraid the big cuts are going to stay at the bottom. And this is just like thinking that when the government parties here like to raise education, so to speak, there are rather harsh figures here in the cuts. All experts say that it is also an extremely poor solution in economic and employment policy to cut future growth. "Returning not to the end" was sometimes a co-election clause to remind Now, of course, in this case, it is in itself a good thing to be withdrawn, but of course it would like to see other real contributions to this growth and employment as a whole. Finally, Mr President, when the time is running, I would like to return to this important issue, which has come up quite well in this debate today, namely the regional economy. It is wise for all of us that Finland as a whole is doing well and doing well in all areas. It is very good that there will be investments in the Turku region — even if I may say it out loud now — but at the same time I still look forward to the actions that were promised to Savonlinna in Eastern Finland. And, for example, in Pirkanmaa, I was thinking about this promise of capitalization for universities that came and why things like this have not been taken into account in this amending budget. All regions need positive impetus. That is how I feel, for example, the representatives of the centre, that in this respect it is necessary to take better care of the weaker and to take care of the whole of Finland and also of regional policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u76	Mr President! First of all, from the general picture of the economy: It has to be said that we can all welcome the fact that the turnaround in the economy — from the point of view of economic growth — but also in employment has genuinely taken place. The fact is, however, that this turnaround is so weak that the government's own objectives in terms of economic and employment will not be achieved through these measures. The government's aim has been to raise the employment rate to 72%, but unfortunately, even though the economic situation is improving, that goal is still getting out of hand. Structural reforms are running out and the employment rate will not be reached by these means. The Government has also sought to strengthen public finances by EUR 10 billion, and the parliamentary debate is already telling us that it is not possible to do that by the measures proposed. However, it must be admitted that the government is balancing the economy with EUR 4 billion, but at the same time it is investing in a significant reduction in the tax rate, and in practice it will lead to a reduction of the tax rate of up to EUR 3 billion in the proposed period, which means that the government's own targets for the deficit will also get out of hand. The deficit target set by the government will not be achieved, but, at its worst, the deficit target will be three, even four times higher than originally sought by the government. Hence, debt will not stop and living as a debt will not end, even if the government does so. This crude analysis of the government's general economic and employment policy's misfortune must be taken into account when we discuss further measures for the future. Mr President! Further action is therefore really needed. The first amending budget this year is based on small repairs being made here and there. First of all, I would like to thank the important correction that the government is making with the wisdom of the positive structural change decisions that have already been taken in the past. This positive structural change support in Varsinais-Suomi is a good continuation of the work that has already been done in the past. I also think it makes sense to have a debate during such slow growth as to whether state measures could also support the outcome across Finland in areas where there could be positive structural change and also positive and rapid economic growth. In this respect, the example of Varsinais-Suomi also inspires us to note that we have examples of such a positive structural change. One good example is Äänekoski, where came this bio factory. The state’s contribution — which was quite significant in the last period — brought about a whole new growth in Finland, but also a new buzz with decisions of real regional economic importance. We are now in a situation where similar investments are needed elsewhere. One of the special regional economic investments in land use, housing and transport during the last period was the continuation of the Western Metro and the construction of the Ringway, and the central government's efforts towards these also resulted in significant regional but also national economic growth. The challenge is how to learn from this so that we would also talk about supporting positive structural change not only in Varsinais-Suomi but also in various parts of Finland. From our point of view, the question is as a whole: when we are talking about supporting the restructuring of south-west Finland, especially from the perspective of the maritime cluster, why is this proposal for an amending budget lacking the power of the Satakunta, one of the provinces, which together as the regions of Varsinais-Suomi and Satakunta pushed this positive restructuring into the steering wheel of state decision-making? Now another province lacks power, and I am disappointed. But on the other hand, I also understand the feeling of Eastern Finland as to whether the very difficult situation in Savonlinna has been taken into account in any way. On the other hand, would it be necessary for Eastern Finland to invest in the same types of species of potential sprouting growth that could be found there too? On the other hand, I am thinking of Tampere 3, which, as an example, does need recognition. It makes a major structural change in the higher education sector, but it is not ready to be supported in the same proportion. I wonder why this same method could not be introduced in different parts of Finland. Mr President! Just a few more comments. As far as employment policy is concerned, this active model is now genuinely becoming a cure, but many people ask whether this active model will become a structural solution to employment policy that genuinely creates opportunities for employment. When the parliamentary procedure has not yet been started, would it not be sensible to invest in another type of employment these limited resources that come here? 13 million reports on activity now require quite a lot of effort at Parliament's head as well. I would use this money to invest in strong employment, especially in pay support. On the other hand, we also need to take into account the interesting little detail of this amending budget, which is not very small at the end of the day, which ultimately gives the authority to have Neste firmly sold, and it is, of course, bad when, here, for example, the Finns of Finland have criticised the sale of state property. So now Neste is a genuine trade again. Last but not least, I take into account the fact that the amending budget proposes EUR 22 million for the establishment of regional information and preparation of regional reform and EUR 30 million for pilot projects on freedom of choice. However, it has now become clear that, first of all, in Uusimaa alone, EUR 68 million would be needed for the establishment of regional information and the implementation of regional reform — only in Uusimaa. The proposal therefore amounts to EUR 22 million, so it can be said that the bottom line is this. On the other hand, there are 30 million in use for pilot projects, which do not need to be pre-eminenced. There is a particular imbalance here, which will certainly require even more detailed examination of the amending budget. This sitting seems rather strange if the provinces are genuinely to be set up so that there is not enough money available for them. And for freedom of choice — on which it was previously decided which timetable we are going to take — pre-emerging will, on the other hand, bring significantly more money to the table than even the creation of provinces is provided for in this amending budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u77	Madam President! Although the actual debate has already been closed, I would nevertheless like to draw attention to this active model of unemployment security, which Mr Kiuru spoke about. It's all about incentives to work. If not even a few hours, a few days, have not been able to do their job for three months, then the unemployment benefit that is better for the first few days than the current unemployment benefit will be reduced for one day over the next three months. Mr Kiuru does not believe that this will have a positive impact. I'd like to say the old-fashioned way, "Do you want to bet?" I am quite sure that when we look at the effects of this active model in due course, we will see that it has managed to shorten this period of unemployment or, in fact, to increase employment during the period of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u78	Mr President! I think it was all right for Mr Zyskowicz to draw attention to this active model and to invest in it. As we have seen at this stage of the debate, it is therefore a question of legislation which does not yet exist, but it is now in the amending budget that the money is coming for it. In other words, Parliament has not decided to launch this type of project, which is quite controversial in terms of content, at least from the perspective of Finnish experts. The question is whether it is worth investing 10 million in a 13 million report in Finland or whether this active employment model could be something else. We Social Democrats have thought that an active labour policy is needed, and for us an active labour policy is not a stick but an incentive. And in this active model, which Ben Zyskowicz spoke very nicely about, the problem is in particular that it contains only stick elements, not incentive elements. We assume that these incentive elements
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u79	Let us not start a new stage in the debate, but let us give Mrs Zyskowicz one more reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u80	Thank you, Madam President! Because we have to fix it. This so-called active model is also a positive element. In other words, during the first three months, unemployment benefit will improve because the qualifying days will fall from seven to five, I think. So, on the one hand, this active model has a small improvement in unemployment security if unemployment is very short, but on the other hand it has an encouraging — if you want to say so — stick element, that if work or participation in labour market policy measures cannot be achieved within three months, then the result will be that unemployment benefit will be one day less in the next three months.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u81	Madam President! I would like to pick up a little more on these immigration costs mentioned earlier. The amending budget provides for an amount of EUR 100000 to be allocated to control the implementation of the removal, of which EUR 40000 is an increase in the appropriations. This is the only point in these expenditures where I wonder whether the budget proposed is small or perhaps more targeted. This would be exactly the point you should be investing in: the removal of unjustified and undocumented people. This is both an economic and a security issue. This would now amount to EUR 100000, but at the same time EUR 15 million for reception and EUR 3 million for voluntary return. It's not wrong to go back on a voluntary basis, it's a return. But you still have to wonder why we can't give them the resources to do the returns if they need to do it, even if they have to. Even general law - abidingness requires that you do not stay in the country without permission.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u82	Madam President! Finland’s economy has been growing for the second year. By comparing Finland with the rest of Europe, we see a harsh truth: the European Commission published a forecast early in the year that Finland's economy would grow by 1.2% this year. The prognosis left Finland on the tail of the European countries, defeating only Italy, suffering from severe economic difficulties. Finland has long grown slower than others, even though the development of the past few months promises better. In the early part of the year, Finland's GDP was 2.8 per cent higher than the first quarter of last year. The trend is very positive, but it is still premature to assess how a permanent trend is. Finland has been involved in the absorption of global economic growth many other countries later. Finland's GDP remains, more than ten years later, below the level of 2007. In the control countries that level has been achieved a long time ago, in Sweden and Germany already in 2011. Today's Chamber has discussed the role of the global economy in Finland's growth. It is clear that it has a key role to play. In the United States, growth has been slowing down for some time, and as in the rest of Europe, the Finnish economy has traditionally followed the US economy with a delay. It is now pointless to speculate whether the economy will turn into a new decline this year, next year or not until two years from now. It's not a politician's job to predict. A politician’s job is not only to look at the prevailing truth but also to try to control the risks facing him. To the extent that we are at our best at the peak of the economic cycle or even at the peak of the economic cycle, it is totally unacceptable that our deficit is still in the order of EUR 7 billion this year. It is good that the government, and especially the Minister of Finance, Orpo, are concerned about this. I dare not think about what our deficit will look like in the 2020s when the ageing population is at its peak and The Defence Forces are making purchases worth 10 billion dollars in size. And what does our deficit look like when interest rates turn up? Even getting a debt to a small indebted country is never an automation. Market conditions often change suddenly. No wonder the opposition is concerned in the Chamber. The next government will find these problems if we do not achieve structural reforms in the last two years. [of the Socialist Group :Skyton! ] Over the last eight years, the central government, municipalities and the Unemployment Insurance Fund have made an average deficit of just under EUR 9 billion per year. That deficit has accumulated in public debt. Public debt stood at nearly EUR 140 billion at the end of last year and the stock of central government guarantees stood at EUR 45 billion. The interest rates on loans have remained low in recent years, as the ECB has kept the interest rate exceptionally low since 2009. The ECB has calculated long-term interest rates directly through a quantitative stimulus programme and other central bank operations. The ECB has anticipated that it will start cancelling the quantitative recovery programme at the end of this year. For example, rising central government and local government average interest rates would increase the central government deficit by 2.5 percentage points by EUR 2.5 billion and the local government deficit by EUR 0.5 billion. This trend in interest rates is in no way unusual when a central bank changes its policies or market participants run out of faith in the ability of a country to fulfil its obligations. There is no point in painting devils on the walls, but the market is already talking about the possibility of a bubble created by central banks and the normalisation of debt interest rates, including in the ECB's own May stability report published last week. Mr President! The government's objective of raising employment to 72% is not in the process of being realised, although, fortunately, employment is now on the rise. The labour market is divided. Long-term unemployment is on a slight decline, but many people are deprived of the current growth. However, even the target of 72 % employment would not be sufficient to cover the cost of the dependency ratio of the population. In the coming years, the employment rate of 74% would be required to keep public finances on a sustainable footing. By 2025 this figure would be 81%. The figures should therefore increase steadily as the dependency ratio of the population deteriorates. From this year until 2030, the number of people aged over 75 will rise by 300,000. These people have been made a promise of well-being that we must hold onto. However, under current economic structures, that promise of well-being is not funded. The government has rightly invested in employment, but measures are still not enough. For example, the increase in car tax in the amending budget again suggests that government revenue can increase even though the tax rate is falling. Reductions in labour taxation will certainly have the same effect over time. We should continue along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u83	Honorable Speaker! A few words about these government holdings in these few holding companies, Neste and Vapo: In fact, if you look at this situation in Neste, the Prime Minister’s Office currently owns the largest number of shares in Neste, 128.4 million shares. After that, these are our leading pension insurance companies, which together own 13 million shares. I therefore find it quite likely that, if the government is going to sell these Neste shares at some point, the employment pension companies will actually be the most likely buyers. Then, on the other hand, if Neste’s ownership goes into the balance sheet of employment pension companies — in other words, partly in this case, in other words, if this sales authorisation is fully exercised, then 42 million shares will be sold and the State, i.e. the Prime Minister’s Office, will have 86.4 million shares — it will, in a way, go from one pocket to the other, which will then benefit citizens and pensioners at a later stage when people retire. Well then, if we look at this state ownership policy, which has actually been done in its entirety, then I think we have done the right thing. Now we can actually control that state's wealth. If we look at the sale of Destia last season. The purchase price was 148 million, of which 42 million were paid to the State, i.e. practically almost one third of the purchase price was paid by Destia’s own cashier. Destia's got a good lead, that's all right. The deal was good for the owners, since last year Destia made 14 million of the operating income, or — in fact, I was counting it then — in about six seven years, even if the operating result is proportionate, the buyers will get theirs back. Well, this one. These decisions will come here in due course, if they are made. In fact, these big issues, when we look at the whole state and the state economy, are more broadly in terms of how we can sustain economic growth, how we can maintain our competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries, and what about maintaining the purchasing power of consumers. In fact, these are the key issues. The employment issues, the employment objective will then come along if we are able to answer these three questions. Then, too, how we break the debt of this state, that is, the debt ratio. In fact, the central government debt ratio will fail if we are able to maintain economic growth, competitiveness and consumer purchasing power. Well, now that we look a little further in time to that autumn, yes, in fact, those budgetary decisions in the autumn will be very big decisions, and we need to achieve the results that will enable this purchasing power to be maintained. Now, just a few words about these decisions that were taken in this additional budget: The deep passage of the port of Oulu is a good project. You always have to remember what context we're in. If we were to relate to the time we had two years ago, we could do much less things, our choice of means was much narrower. Now we are able to take such measures at this stage, which will then help those regions and bring jobs to them and bring them to economic growth. This deep passage of the port of Oulu is interesting because it even halves the transport costs there. Well, now if you look at the companies that carry some wood or metal or anything through the port of Oulu, then if these companies have made a plus minus zero profit earlier, which has been quite possible, suddenly their transport costs will be halved. It wants to say that there will be an operating profit on top of the line, which in turn will lead to investment, to employment. The whole of Northern Finland will benefit from this one good decision. Finally, this is an exceptional additional budget. At this point, government debt will be reduced by 178 million. This is a very positive thing. We get to go back some years that we find this sort of additional budget, where so strongly the state debt is decreasing. We are on the right track, and now we have a lot of opportunities, new means, new measures at our disposal, so nothing but new challenges. And let us hope that we will actually get the decisions in the autumn budget negotiations in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u84	Mr President! Now that there are no members of the Assembly in the Chamber, let us allow this kind of initial reduction to follow on from Mr Vähämäki's speech, that really is the case that, for the first time since 2007, we are in a situation where government debt does not increase with an additional budget, [Ville Vähämäki’s interlude] In this debate, which I think has been commendable and for which I would also like to thank the representatives of the government, the government has had a somewhat divisive atmosphere. Mainly the downtown representatives have rejoiced at the turn of the economy and the good pace, whereas that is where Mr Lepomäki spoke more gloomily than anyone in the opposition today. The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, also said quite elegantly that more needs to be done. That is why I agree with them, both at Lepomäki and at Orpo, that structural reforms are needed, especially the reform of family leave and the extension of compulsory education. The reform of family leave is the great reform of the labour market and the economy that is needed in this very period of time. — If you do not leave yet, Mr Vähämäki, I will give you my greetings from Neste as long as I can. — family leave reform improves the labour market position of women, wage equality and, ultimately, pension equality. He's in a hurry. These would be bigger reforms than slapping soda. Now throw away this squabbling over sodas and focus on the important and big things, of which, of course, this is the greatest social waste. Unfortunately, the EUR 130 million earmarked in the additional budget for the freedom of choice pilot has been designed in such a way that it effectively excludes Uusimaa, as has been said here. That is very regrettable because: Uusimaa will be the most critical and difficult in this whole social reform, even at the beginning of 19 C.E. It requires special measures. Therefore, no single municipality can receive this grant under these pilot conditions, even if it is as large as Vantaa or Espoo, let alone Helsinki. I must agree with the criticisms of the future mayor, Jan Vapaavuori: this is something that seems to have been specifically designed so that the major cities suffer most from it. My third point relates to taxes: It is very positive that EUR 490 million has been exceeded by this expectation of tax revenue. After all, we are often accused of being overly enthusiastic about taxation by government parties, and it is good that the government has also been able to see how happy it is that tax revenues will be more than anticipated to finance important public services. It must be noted, however, that nothing here is produced by the government itself on a responsible tax line, but by the wind. In any case, a better return on car tax than anticipated will be clearly lower than last year’s, even though people are now buying cars as a debt. After all, the indebtedness of households in this sector has been reversed in the first instance, and it is worth paying attention to the fact that private indebtedness is increasing in a way that has been expressed by both the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority, as well as by foreign observers. In this respect, increasing purchasing power would also be extremely important for low-income public sector workers. As Mr Rinne has already said, with regard to better returns on inheritance tax and gift tax, it is worth noting that almost half of the better than anticipated accumulation is due to the renewal of the information system launched during the time of the Minister for Finance, Mr Urpilainen, which has brought forward the collection of taxes, which means that these hundreds of millions are virtually out of future profits. The government has been lucky with tax revenue, and that's fine. Good luck is also needed if a planned tax line is not available. Finally, Mr President, a word about Neste: Representative Vähämäki thought that if the government sold out its 16% share of Neste, for example, it would be possible that the pension companies would be the ones who would get that pot. It is worth noting, however, that if shareholders are treated equally here, as is apparently intended, then those foreign shareholders who have doubled their number over the last two years from 16% to nearly 30 will probably require equal treatment. In other words, we cannot move, at least without sanctions, even here from one pocket to another, but genuinely the state is lightening its property in a way which, as I said earlier, is short-sighted. As has already been said by Henri Parkkinen, President of Share Research at Osuuspankki, which I have quoted a couple of times, the state has been a good owner of Neste and has made possible the significant strategic leap that the large private international oil companies have not dared to take, i.e. the transition to biofuels almost ten years ago, which has been rewarded with very great results and price increases and the increase in the value of the company, which is largely due to the long-term and long-term nature of the state owner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u85	Madam President! Economic growth is the best and necessary way to combat inequality. This is another theme that we have discussed a little today in this additional budgetary dispatch debate. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in particular, it is indeed comforting to say that these painful actions have not been wasted — I am talking about these painful cuts — but Finland is dealing with one of the longest recessions in its history. Positive news about the economy comes almost daily. Last yesterday it was announced that consumers' views on Finland's economy and employment development are very bright. The decline in unemployment is believed to be more than ten years, and the picture of Finland's economy is the best since 2010. Aktia increased its economic forecast to a good, 1.9 per cent in 2017, while in winter it was still 1.4 per cent. Madam President! Mr Filatov raised a very important element in his speech, which Mr Sipilä has already addressed. He said, in some ways, that it is not only enough to reverse the recession, but also to tackle the social recession. That is exactly what it is and, fortunately, this is also the objective of Prime Minister Sipilä, that now that the economic transition has been achieved with so many indicators, we must now tackle the social recession, the halting of social inequalities. In the spring, he said and raised his concern that one in six young men or boys is at risk of marginalisation. After all, Prime Minister Sipilä invited Professor Juho Saare and his working groups to present proposals on how to tackle this particular development of inequality in Finland would find ways that might be possible in this economic situation. The first results of this working group will be expected next autumn, and I am sure that others other than myself will look forward to this. There has also been a debate here in the Chamber on fiscal imbalances, and the opposition's speeches at the same time state that cuts should not be made but that debt should not be taken. Both are criticised. Both have been done, and the results speak for themselves. I find it very sad that even the Prime Minister's resignation is required at this stage when this tight first half of the reign is behind us and now we see that the measures have been right, right and effective. That's outrageous. In due course, he will make his own assessment of whether his government’s actions were sufficient, and he himself will assess whether he himself meets the criteria set for himself. I think that is very respectable. Madam President! In this speech, I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that this additional budget made additional efforts to push ahead with social and regional reform. An increase of EUR 22 million was provided for the establishment of information management in the regions, the preparation of the provinces and the expenditure of the temporary administration. However, I would like to remind everyone who is dealing with regional reform and social reform that money does not guarantee a successful reform. There must be a proper state of will — there is also a small message to New Zealand and Helsinki that there must be the right state of will — and then there must be the right people preparing new structures, and here I am referring to the fact that the social and health reform affects more than 200,000 people in the social and health sector. It is very important that these staff groups are represented in the process of creating these new structures. Representatives of social and health care staff must be involved in the change. Madam President! That is actually the most important thing I wanted to mention in this speech. With regard to that money for farmers, an additional EUR 1 million, I mentioned in the previous speech that it was incorrectly said that this would be a leave for administrative expenditure. No, this appropriation will, among other things, continue the model created in connection with the agricultural crisis money, which is managed by Mela. It is called the Care Farmer project and it makes various support measures that are absolutely necessary. We have a great food chain, which is of invaluable importance to our economy and our regions. The food sector employs 340000 people, according to a report published today by the Natural Resources Centre, and the food sector produces value added of EUR 15 billion, or 9 per cent of the value added of the country as a whole. Farmers are the first and most important link in that food chain. Without them, there are no other links in the food chain, and that is why this investment in the survival of farmers in a very difficult economic situation is so important, and it is great that the government did so without any hesitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u86	Mr President! First of all, thank you both to the Minister and everyone else. This has been a very good conversation. In fact, I myself would like to start with what many colleagues said, that there was a world before 2008 and then there is a world now. A lot of wise words have been heard here, even hindsight words, what should have been done before and what should have been done now. But of course there would have been alternatives, and the economy is, you might say, quite easy to argue at macro level. But I myself thought I would talk about what it looks like at the micro level at the moment, and about the fact that it is perhaps right to evaluate the results of each government and the results of its work, as many of us have done today. If you really look at Finland at the moment from the perspective of how this growth is divided between different people, and if you talk to a small entrepreneur, an employee, a pensioner, a temporary worker or a student, then you are still looking forward to that growth in your own economy. Pensioners have done their own work and, of course, have earned their wages along with it. Still, cutting their purchasing power, if anything, is visible in the economy. Mr President! Supported employment here too is often even perhaps a little criticised and experienced by the government in some way as a trick job. But if we go back to that year of 2008, for example in Denmark and Sweden, there was a quite different level of investment in support employment than in us, even double, multiple times in Germany, and the hole we were in would perhaps have looked different if we had done something different. Mr President! The reason I asked to speak is actually related to Finland's competitiveness. For the last two years, we have actually been talking in this Chamber about how bad Finland is and how poor competitiveness we have. Unfortunately, however, that debate is very much focused on people's salaries and wage costs. Today, the Minister for Finance quite rightly said that we must invest in accessibility. He rightly pointed out, among other things, port investments and transport infrastructure investments in general. I have been very concerned that now, if ever, Finland and the current government should be able to align these projects, what do we want to see on the TEN-T network at EU level for 2023, including those billions of aids, what is available there, so I ask the government: when are you going to complete the road map which will then be well presented in Brussels and elsewhere in Europe? But all in all, Mr President, the question is how to cope with Finnish competence — not just during this term of government, but what it will look like in ten years' time, in 2027. Are we still number one in the world or even ten? How do these cuts now made appear in the way the Finnish university of applied sciences and the entire educational sector survive, because without knowledge we will not be able to survive in this international competition? Everything else is actually secondary. Among other things, the SDP has called for investment in tourism and the circular economy in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank the government for listening to us. We have a unanimous report with the government on the energy and climate strategy, and thank you once again for that. Finally, Mr President, a comment on why Finland's growth and development are uneven, both regionally and in terms of sectors. Why is Western Finland growing and Eastern Finland clumping? In particular, I ask the Central Party, because for you, if the whole of Finland, regional development, has always been at the centre of my opinion. But now it seems that the market is taking over and the centre is squeezing, because if we look at Mr Hoskonen's North Karelia now, then the unemployment figures are really disappointing to read. In this connection, I would like to give the government one piece of advice: Do not focus solely on the bioeconomy. Remember digitalisation, versatile Finnish engineering skills. Take a broad look and listen to business, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and investors how to develop Finland. That's how you get the whole of Finland moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u87	Mr President! This draft amending budget should be welcomed by the Finns in the south-west of Finland for once. The most tangible is the EUR 21 million mandate proposed for electrification of the Turku-Uusikaupunki railway line and the EUR 2 million appropriation. Apparently, the foundations of the track also need to be strengthened. The immediate benefits of the Norwegian Yaran Uusikaupunki factory are reduced by the safety and environmental risks associated with the transport of raw materials from Russia, including in the Turku railway yard. In time, passenger train traffic from Turku to New Town can also start and help, among other things, the New Town Car Factory to get a job. Also significant is the proposed EUR 20 million for education in south-west Finland, most of which, EUR 14 million, will be directed towards cooperation between universities in the field of technology in the south-west of Finland. A further EUR 6 million will be available for pilots of vocational education reform and the strengthening of polytechnics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u88	Madam President! This amending budget contains a great deal of good targets. We know that even the opposition is in favour of them, even though they do not of course think that the measures are sufficient. At the moment, the economy is growing. Representative Skinner knows that in my own province of North Karelia, the turnover of companies is increasing in almost every sector. Domestic demand has also increased sales. It's raining in the lary now from almost all directions. In our region, the turnover of only five industries decreased slightly at the end of last year, while the turnover of nearly twenty other industries grew. Expenditure has been particularly strong in metal exports, but growth rates in the wood sector are also 2-digit. Compared to many previous years, the growth of enterprises covers the whole province. The development of exports and business turnover in North Karelia has generally even been better than the average in the country, but employment has improved slightly slower than in the rest of the country. Much remains to be done in this regard. Low-level tourism also seems to have turned to growth in our province, and for example, the growth rate of tax-free trade is as high as 70 per cent. With the scrapping premium, some 8,000 new low-emission cars have already been received for you in Finland. At the moment, however, around half of Finland's car fleet is still over 10 years old. In my view, the aim must continue to be to make the fleet younger, more environmentally friendly and safer. The continuation of the scrapping premium experiment would also be worth continuing with regard to government tax revenues and employment opportunities. The continuation of the scrapping premium experiment would be a good continuation of the Government’s decision to reduce the car tax gradually between 2016 and 2019. I would even prefer the continuation of the scrapping premium experiment to the EUR 3.5 million allocation to the Kymi Ring Motorsport Centre under construction, as the scrapping premium experiment would be of benefit to more transport users.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u89	Mr President! Congratulations to North Karelia for finding growth. My own speech has to do with the fact that it could be even stronger. But now we have to support the government from here to here from the opposition in connection with the Kymi Ring project. It is also quite rightly responsible for the private sector, as Mr Orpo said. If you do not find private money, you will not find state money either, it is the right approach. With regard to what has just been said, I hope that the government will actually take back this car wrecking premium, because if we look at all our climate objectives, I fully agree with the representative that we should be much more supportive of the renewal of the car fleet. If you look at the effects of the previous scrapping premium, it is economically worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u91	Madam President! The texts on the state of Finland’s finances in that amending budget booklet are quite accurate and very descriptive, reflecting the current economic situation. Mr Skinner asked after Eastern Finland in a recent speech. It is an essential part of the development of Finland, hopefully, that Eastern Finland is also being developed. Why is it worse than the average in Eastern Finland than in the rest of Finland? The answer is very simple: Eastern Finland, the province of North Karelia, in particular, has fallen under Russian sanctions policy quite clearly. Secondly, these large, large-scale imports of wood from the forest industry and, in particular, the import of energy wood, which has choked the local timber trade, especially on the energy side, almost completely and then trampled on, among other things, the prices of forest machinery contractors and truckers as low as can ever be due to this cabotage traffic. That is what the big forest industry is using today, unscrupulously. I have spoken about it in my own group, and I will continue to hold on to the fact that there is a reasonable payment for Russian traffic that would not break Finland's roads without paying any taxes or compensation. This is, of course, a somewhat more difficult exercise at the Schengen external border when we cannot come up with our own rules, but we must adopt them in Brussels. But that's where the reason is. Another major reason for the bad state of Eastern Finland is, of course, the situation of the transport infrastructure. We and the rest of the province have been left behind for the money that large projects have been made in the rest of Finland, not much in Eastern Finland. In other words, as far as the transport infrastructure is concerned, we are a backward country; that is an indisputable fact. The development of the bioeconomy has been the first long-term positive sign in Eastern Finland, but now there has been opposition from central agencies and ministries to one project that I have been trying to take forward in Lieksa: The Lieksa GFN project, a bio-oil project that makes wood bio-oil suitable for fuels as an additional fraction, diesel and petrol. In other words, this project has been opposed by various central agencies, there has been braking, there is full braking, and that is what is being clarified. Otherwise, the project would have been fully approved in the province, only the financing decisions will, for some reason, remain at the wheel of bureaucracy. If Mr Skinner has a solution to this, I would be happy to accept it immediately. Every day work is being done, there is no solution yet, but I believe that the solution will be created before the next snow is shoveled out of the yard. In any case, the bioeconomy is big for us, and the perspective of Finland and Eastern Finland and Finland as a whole, also through the amending budget, is that if new investments are not made on the forest side, our growth fins will have been eaten. On the forestry side, logging activities in Finland’s forests bring more to the country as well as the metal industry, the chemical industry, the energy industry and many other small industries. Because the investments are so huge, it will benefit the whole of Finland — an example of the case Äänekoski, which was well mentioned by Minister Orpo in his own speech a few hours ago. Secondly, the general economic situation: As stated in the amending budget, the general economic situation has been turned into a plus. It should be remembered that this is an eight-year frontier. Finland's economy went downhill for eight years. And then, when the demars have shouted in this Chamber and given a strong opinion that nothing has worked or succeeded from the government: If you look at what happened in the last parliamentary term, then in the last parliamentary term we had a huge increase in debt, 100,000 more unemployed people came, the municipal economy was driven to the brink of bankruptcy, the list of crisis municipalities was long as a year of hunger. Last year, local government finances turned to plus, EUR 450 million last year was in favour of local government finances, i.e. the local government side was put in good shape, and now employment has started to improve. But it is worth remembering, both in the opposition and in the government, in the whole of Finland's parliament that the work that has been started is long-term work, it is like running a marathon. Those who have run it say that the marathon can only be lost for the first five kilometers, cannot be won for the first five kilometers. So now we need to be patient about making new wise investment decisions, putting infraa in order. For example, this government is putting an extra EUR 600 million into raising the condition of transport routes, which was otherwise not done during the last parliamentary term. So the sum summarum could say that the direction of the economy has been reversed, and, as Minister Orpo said, now we have to take a decision by decision, step by step. There is no hocuspokkuskonst to put the Finnish economy in order in the next few years, but persistent, peaceful work — and, above all, the fact that in future labour market solutions we will be sensible and we will not be irresponsibly going to do any major foreclosures. I strongly believe that the labour market organisations now have such high levels of knowledge and know-how — I very much appreciate their skills — that they will be able to make future decisions in the light of the Finnish economy, because if we want unemployment down in this country, we should take into account the fact that existing jobs are extremely important and every new job created will reduce unemployment. I understand that this wisdom has spread everywhere in this country, that only through work Finland will rise and unemployment will fall — from there the costs of around 7 billion that unemployment will cost this society each year will be reduced. Here again, there are no shortcuts to luck.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u92	Mr President! Now that employment has turned to clear growth and economic growth at the same time, the opposition has the courage to thank the government with caution, but it has the courage to thank the government. So thanks are still soaring, but as the pace of economic growth slowly accelerates from this point of view, thanks from the opposition are bound to increase for the good government proposals. With increased tax revenue estimates, the amending budget will reduce the need for central government debt by a total of EUR 178 million. Indeed, it is quite exceptional for these amending budgets to reduce borrowing, such as the representative. A little hill here earlier today said. This development is at least partly the result of income tax reductions and increased purchasing power, which has prompted Finnish consumers to move. VAT revenue will therefore increase by more than EUR 180 million from the one previously estimated. However, it is clear that our public debt is still too fast. Fortunately, the indebtedness rate of local government finances has been brought to a halt during this parliamentary term. Mr President! In addition to income tax reductions, a good example of a workable incentive is a reduction in day care fees. Day care fees will be reduced again, especially in low income families with children. It is a good continuum for the rebates made last autumn. They have improved incentives for employment and increased the hand-in-hand income of many low-income families by several percentages. Such good decisions should continue to be taken. The growth of net income while gross income remains moderate benefits both employees, entrepreneurs and Finnish society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u93	Mr President! Perhaps some of the reasons why the economy is not always progressing as well somewhere in the country as elsewhere are to come from that area of less favourable structural change. It is not always about money or the state's contribution, but it can also be about the attitude, the culture of entrepreneurship and its success. More like where I come from, we've had the attitude of going to work for a big company instead of starting our own business. Now the only problem is that those big companies may no longer be or do not employ as much as before, and this equation does not work. I need to think of something new. That philosophy sounds very social democratic and, in that context, I wondered at the end of Mr Skinner's speech. It was totally confusing. It talked about consulting entrepreneurs and business. I had to check the speaker's party position. I would have liked to have heard what is going on, which are considered to be good by those who have never been promoted by the SDP, even supported or did not even object. It's been a couple of years since we've had a bunch of apothecists and lawyers who've been barking around here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u94	Madam President! As has been pointed out many times in today's debate, it seems that there has indeed been a major economic turnaround. You can see that from many estimates, such as tax revenue. It has been able to be corrected slightly upwards. VAT revenue is slightly higher than estimated. Even car tax increases slightly from what has been thought. After all, these contribute to the fact that people are once again credited to their own household. It also tells us that more and more people have been given jobs. The fact that there were more than 10,000 long-term unemployed in March's statistics than at the same time a year ago, not to mention the fact that there were more than 30,000 unemployed as a whole compared with one year ago, is a huge deal for these people in their personal lives. This debate and the Government's draft amending budget have highlighted areas of positive structural change. It is quite clear that the relatively high growth rate in Varsinais-Suomi is radiating to the wider region, and the growth rate is similar in the north as well. There the growth rates of tourism have long been two figures, and it has been very important that the government then also included new key projects in tourism in its mid-term budget reviews. These are things that have been discussed for a long time, such as the incentive of audiovisual media, which can also create a new kind of creative activity in Finland. This is also reflected in that Nordic activity report last year, because the Nordic countries have worked very hard together to get film productions in the Nordic countries. Mr President! I thought, however, in my own speech, about infrastructure and the fact that if we want to make the big historic change that we are going to give up fossil fuels and build on renewable energies in such a way that we take advantage of all the waste streams, that also means that we must have the infrastructure in good condition. I congratulate Vuosaar and Oulu on the depths of the port and I hope that the next step will also be in the port of Northern Finland in Kemi. Of course, it is very important in terms of competition. In view of the fact that the northernmost ports in Finland are already quite large — and many of the northern projects, not to mention Kaidi's potential EUR 1 billion project or long-term projects in the extractive industry in speculation or other bioeconomy projects in Kemijärvi and Kainuu — it is certainly necessary that the Kemink port should have its own depth, especially when the competitive situation with Sweden is very tight. However, Finland has unique global expertise in icebreaking. The fact that Kemi is the only ports that are completely frozen and yet we can use it throughout the year is a fine example of Finnish icebreaking expertise. I hope, therefore, that the port of Kemi will also receive the draught of the fairway as soon as possible, and I believe that, above all, this The project that starts the Kaidi movement is the trigger. Mr President! Also, the proposal to increase Finnvera’s funding mandate by EUR half a billion indicates that companies are interested in the loan money and have gone to apply for it. Similarly, the proposal to increase lending mandates in Tekes is very important. If I still think about the decision of the mid-term review on how the Academy of Finland, Tekes and, for the first time, vocational education and training will be capitalised, it will be a very important step towards achieving that basic and grassroots level, together with the great reform of its vocational education and training, and also to improve business cooperation, because many of the areas of growth that are currently taking place will leave the natural resource side, and there the capital will also be quite large, as required, and they must be able to provide and enable educational institutions. In addition, to this end, I thought to say a few words and perhaps a wish when there is an extractive industry in Finland and a large part of it has been working excellently for decades and has brought the economy benefits and done things, but unfortunately there are also those who have left their mark, and one of them is now this, where we are going to have to spend EUR 5 million in this amending budget. I hope that, at some point, legislation on environmental liability and guarantee liabilities will be checked to ensure that taxpayers do not have such bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u95	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u96	Mr President! The Government is proposing a law on a centre of expertise in the fight against hybrid threats in Europe. This is good because the European security situation has deteriorated and, as the explanatory memorandum states, there are phenomena in the security situation that can be described as hybrid activity. It is good that the Finnish Government is also up to date on this issue, and we can react with legislation to this existing phenomenon. This is an issue in which it is good to be a pioneer at European level. Security is a key factor behind the information society, and if we achieve the reputation of having advanced technology and knowledge and will in this area, it can also be good for our business. However, I would like to see more practical resources and resources for this than is proposed here. Perhaps one day we will see such a performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u97	Madam President! Hybrid threats are very, very serious in today's open society. And quite rightly, this has been raised in the European Union, and now these hybrid threats are being mapped out. This government proposal, which is now before us, is precisely based on the starting point for developing these issues that are important for the fight against hybrid threats at the centre of expertise level. Finland has been active in this matter, and the present government proposal is aimed specifically at bringing this hybrid knowledge centre here to Finland and precisely at bringing together the Member States of the European Union to take this issue forward. In recent months, we have seen a different influence in the elections in different countries, in which an outside party has left by various means, which today's information technology allows an almost impossible number, to influence a country's election results in advance. Among other things, it is absolutely essential for the overall security of Europe to study and control these means. Every person who plays with computers or who follows the media knows that screening different news, identifying different hybrid threats, is extremely important. Finland as such a small, open country here in the Nordic countries, in the northern corner of Europe, is in one way key, because we are still a transport hub towards the Far East and also through Finland there is a huge number of cables, fiber optic cables. We're a hub in communications. Even though we are here on the sidelines, Helsinki, for example, is a very important, important target in an open society. I believe that research and European cooperation will help us to move forward, but it is not up to this one proposal to prepare for hybrid threats. This is the beginning of a long path that must now be set in motion, and the state must be involved in this. This is a government proposal that must be approved and that we should move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u98	Mr President! The establishment of a centre of expertise for hybrid threats is very important. Bringing it to Finland is an even finer thing, and it will serve our overall security mindset. Hybrid threats have become increasingly visible in the media, they are also reflected in the economy, not to mention the military effects they may have at their worst. This centre of expertise for hybrid threats has been able to bring about a government proposal to the Parliament on a rather fast-track basis, and then to get allies on this issue within the European Union and also on the NATO side. It is therefore very important that 9 countries were already involved in the signing of the founding document last month. It is very important that this centre should be able to react to and deal with these kinds of hybrid threats to Finland and other countries, in all its dimensions, in order to strengthen our information networks and prevent them from being able to do so. This has to do with something like electronic voting, which, of course, would be desirable if it could be done, it could be expanded, it could be used more for all the services provided by social media. For example, young people are already able to handle their affairs very smoothly electronically, but we should always be able to be a step ahead of the potential risks associated with online behaviour. In addition, of course, information influence is important. And there is nothing more important than media literacy so that it can be constantly studied and taught. By enabling people to follow time, a wide range of media sources, hopefully media literacy will also develop. But I think that this is a very good and important thing for Finland to have such a centre of expertise for hybrid threats in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u99	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. First speech to Mr Vanhanen, Chairman of Sitra's Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u100	Mr President! On behalf of the Management Board, I would like to say a few words for this referral debate. Sitra’s report for 2016 will be discussed and will focus, as usual, on the events of the reporting year and Sitra’s role as an independent future organisation. This year for Sitra is particularly important. In 1967, the Finnish Parliament commissioned Sitra to improve Finland’s well-being and competitiveness. As Sitra’s 50th anniversary draws near, although the task of developing a better tomorrow has remained, Sitra has been able to renew itself throughout the decades according to the requirements of time. In 2017, Sitra will be a Finnish Future House where a knowledge-based vision meets practical work. Sitra celebrates the 50th anniversary of Finland's independence and 100th anniversary of Finland's independence with the theme "The Future will be done together". Today, Sitra’s operations are based on a vision in which Finland succeeds as a pioneer in sustainable well-being. The goal of all development is a good life, which is lived within the limits of the earth’s carrying capacity. Mr President! In 2016, the results of Sitra’s future work were reaped in many areas. The megatrends that shape the world and their impact on Finland were widely discussed under Sitra. Sorely needed sources of growth were sought and further sought from circular economy, smart and clean solutions and the utilisation of well-being data. Sitra’s role as a blackmailer of a renewed society was strengthened in areas such as social welfare reform, basic income testing, working life issues and impact investing in the ecosystem. The long-term work to build a resource-wise and carbon-neutral society took important steps forward. The world’s first national circular economy road map was completed by a thousand Finnish experts in September, and even before that, the Smart & Clean Foundation of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area started its operations with the aim of creating an ambitious focus on clean and intelligent solutions in Finland. Sitra’s and Finland’s forerunnership in the circular economy was recognised on several occasions internationally. In the development of social and health services, it was decided to introduce the service packages developed and tested by Sitra as a national system for the monitoring of costs and operations. The service packages are a background enabler of continuous renewal, as are many other models driven by Sitra from a virtual clinic to a national gateway: they are not always reached by news headlines, but they are extremely important for renewal. As society's service needs grow, new operating models and new thinking are needed in the economy. A source of both growth and personal well-being is expected from Isaac, the welfare service provider currently under development. The purpose of measuring well-being is also to invest in the impact that Sitra brings to Finland. The first projects under the Social Impact Bond model are already under way and a follow-up is on the way. Sitra has proven its capacity for renewal in history several times already. The transformation from a product development fund to a capital investor and a significant institutional investor, and subsequently to anticipating and experimenting organisation with a clear future structure, shows vital predictability and understanding of the changing structures of society. Above all, Sitra’s ability to renew itself and, above all, the launch of new methods without prejudice, in which young people are also keen to participate, is an absolute strength of the future organization. Many institutions could use a similar courageous approach, since the interest and involvement of younger people in the joint development of social issues is essential in a democratic society. Sitra will be celebrating 50 years with the style of the Future House, emphasising the foresight work and courageously pursuing new stakeholders. In addition to more traditional projects, an organisation that focuses on the capacity for renewal has, among other things, an update of the welfare vision, multi-sectoral experiments of various sizes, a challenge competition for Solution 100 and digital tests that encourage individual renewal, such as a fitness test for working life. These and many other projects are reported by Sitra’s Annual Activity Report last year. Mr President! In due course, Sitra received basic capital from the Bank of Finland and the Parliament, which, by investing responsibly, provides the proceeds that finance all Sitra’s future work. At the end of 2016, the market capital value of Sitra’s core capital was EUR 807 million and investment assets produced 7.1 per cent. The surplus for the financial period was EUR 4.8 million. According to Sitra’s Board of Directors, Sitra’s finances are on a solid footing and its operations are well-managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u101	Mr President! Sitra’s activity report is interesting to read. With regard to this investment property of Sitra, having read the activity report, I find it increasingly difficult to understand how the SDP has put forward a breach of Sitra’s piggy bank in its previous two shadow budgets. I therefore call on the Social Democrats in particular to look into the activity report and I hope that they will no longer have an eating debt in their third shadow budget during this parliamentary term with the sale of Sitra's investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u102	Madam President! This is a very familiar subject. We have discussed this in the Chamber many times. [JaniMäkeläarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u103	Madam President! Sitra’s operations are based on a vision in which Finland succeeds as a pioneer in sustainable well-being. The goal of all development is a good life, which is lived within the limits of the earth’s carrying capacity. In 2017, this vision will be more topical than ever. In the report, we read that Sitra is responsible for promoting stable and balanced development in Finland, quantitative and qualitative growth in the economy, and international competitiveness and cooperation. All of these are urgently needed today in our national economy, in every province of Finland. The future is not just Sitra's role as a future organisation, but the role of the whole parliament and Finnish society. With regard to the three themes of this report and Sitra, I will focus mainly on one: Resource-wise and carbon-neutral society. Sitra’s long-term work to build a resource-wise and carbon-neutral society took significant steps forward. Since I come from the easternmost bioregion in Finland, I would like to emphasise in particular that the home of the bioeconomy is in the provinces. A carbon-neutral society is resource-wise and requires a much-speaked bioeconomy. Although the causes of climate change are controversial, the effects are not necessarily positive either. However, it can still be said out loud that there is also an opportunity here, as the report points out about the possibilities of promoting business. Sitra raised the circular economy in Finland to a wide-ranging debate already in 2015 and has promoted it in many ways through its own activities. A logical step in long-term development work was the first national road map of the circular economy published worldwide in September 2016. Biomass based bioeconomy is also a circular economy. The forest is a natural solar panel and carbon sink. It's also a carbon storer. Forests and biomasses are a natural resource that does not shrink but grows again because of sustainable forestry in Finland. Even at the moment, we have an estimated 50 million cubic metres of logging in the forests. We need management fellings to safeguard forest yields and, at the same time, wood raw material for both chemical and mechanical wood processing. Madam President! Here we must once again highlight the provinces with their potential. In my own country, North Karelia is still doing more than a step ahead of the forest-based bioeconomy. I hope that the conditions for its operation will also be safeguarded in the future. We need jobs and jobs that do not run off to countries with lower production costs and which are in growing export sectors. This market and education play an essential role. We need training places in regions where the bioeconomy is growing and developing. At present, there are jobs in the bioeconomy, especially in North Karelia. Sitra also highlights local food as part of a successful circular economy. That is an excellent thing. We need more purchasing skills to take advantage of local food in the public sector. And as the report states, the circular economy is a matter of will, so the use of local food and, in my opinion, organic food in particular is a matter of will. Local food strategies should be made more courageously in municipalities, emphasising the importance, production and consumption of food and emphasising the importance of organic food. We should get rid of the food loss. Almost a third of the food goes to waste, and I think it is too much. I suppose it is a good question to ask: Is food too cheap for the middle class and the good people? For the poor, it's not. The transport of food also causes emissions. Thus, as the food transported ends up in the garbage, emissions have been virtually useless. Mr President! Finally, in my speech, I would like to highlight the economic importance of this exercise. Last year, those hunting and fishing in state lands brought several million euros and even more than 200 man-years of work to the outlying provinces. Most money is spent on fuels, retail stores, accommodation and restaurants. In my opinion, this is a part of the economy and thus part of the circular economy. As part of nature tourism, hunting and fishing are a growth sector in many countries, and we also have good conditions for this in Finland. Our regions offer ecosystem services, the opportunity to refresh themselves in clean nature, but also the opportunity to hunt and fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u104	Madam President! Finnish Year of Independence Fund Sitra is an important part of Finnish innovation work. Just as Matti Vanhanen well described in his own speech the tasks of Sitra today and precisely the anniversary of Sitra's 50th anniversary and Finland's 100th anniversary, the future will be done together. That is exactly what it is, and it is Sitra who now has an excellent time to do the work for which it was set up. As we know, due to Finland’s technology, innovation and technological development, Sitra’s current core capital is at a very strong level and should be regarded as such. I can't understand the fact that... For example, Mr Viitanen mentioned Sitra's money, I am not saying robbery, but I do not think it makes sense to remove it from other uses, because Finland needs such an innovation house that can finance venture capital companies, i.e. it can invest in companies where there may be no other way to raise capital. Sitra is itself an innovator and is the creator of this kind of development in Finland, and it is with this kind of innovation that jobs in the future are created. The jobs will not be created today, but will be created with long-standing work, when new developments are opened up, and it is in this area of green bioeconomy and resource wisdom and carbon-free society that Finland is actively aiming for as Europe's leading country that Sitra has an enormous future ahead of him. That's why Sitra needs the support of all of us and, above all, that: Sitra can spend its own money, its own money, wisely and so that it creates new growth, new innovations, new jobs all the time. This is why I very much appreciate the work done by Sitra and, for my part, thank those who have participated in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u105	Madam President! I am sorry that I was a little late for that presentation by Mr Vanhanen. I was in another meeting, but I do, of course, want to share the view that Sitra is doing important, valuable work in many areas of the future. As has been emphasised here in previous speeches, for example, this sustainable development, the sustainable economy and the circular economy, which has now been spectacularly highlighted, it is very much to be welcomed and good to look to the future in any way. I agree with Mr Kulmala, for example, on this local food and organic food. I think they are the kind of assets of the future that we specifically support here in Finland to promote by all means. President! After all, history is that in time, when Sitra was created, it was never necessarily thought that this basic capital would be so strong and so big that it is now there. That is based on the fact that, in history, low-cost stock transactions were made for Nokia and thus a strong balance sheet was obtained. Since this balance sheet is very strong, we assume that the fact that we use part of it for an investment that creates the future is precisely a future act and a very sitaristic idea. Especially if we talk about repairing mold schools with new technologies, using them, developing them, I think this is really forward-looking and perfect for Sitra's job description. In that sense, I find it a little regrettable that people are trying to talk about the fact that something is being looted here or else, whereas on the contrary, we are developing and looking to the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u106	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u107	Mr President! We have a government proposal and a report from the Committee on Culture. This proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Education Board and the Act on the National Education Evaluation Centre. According to the proposal, the National Centre for the Evaluation of Education and Culture and the Office of the Student Qualifications Board, belonging to the accounting unit of the Ministry of Education and Culture, would be transferred to separate units of the Finnish National Board of Education. Mr President! This government proposal received an exceptionally critical reading in the Committee on Education. This proposed reform raised some serious questions of principle regarding the independence and independence of the evaluation centre and the matriculation examination board as part of the Finnish National Board of Education, which is responsible for the effectiveness and development of its field of activity. I do not recall, for the second time in my long parliamentary career, that a second page of criticism has been recorded in the committee's report, i.e. under the heading 'criticism of the motion' there is a significant number of criticisms of expert opinions. Coats: "In addition,the expert’s opinions have set out that,when implemented,the purpose of the proposal is to return Therefore, the work that has been done to develop the Finnish education evaluation system over the past ten years is feared to go to waste. As a result of the change presented, the independence of the evaluation of Finnish education is again seriously questioned, so the political value and effectiveness of the evaluation results will also be significantly undermined." — Please note that I am not now reading the protest of the political opposition, but the official report of the Committee on Culture. It goes on: "According to the opinion,the most important criticism of The credibility of the published results was repeatedly questioned on the basis that the same organisation that carried out the reforms also assessed their success. The opinion anticipates that previous criticisms will arise again in evaluations of curriculum reforms such as comprehensive school and upper secondary school and the impact of vocational education reform, if the evaluator and the evaluation are part of the same organisation, as proposed by the Board of Directors." Let us take another quote: "The proposed reform also places the evaluation of universities in an integral part of the national education administration, which was precisely the aim of setting up an evaluation centre. According to the opinion, there is a high risk that the value of Finnish evaluation expertise in the international context will therefore be significantly undermined." Mr President! There'll be another one of these. However, I would like to make a specific point about how the position of the matriculation examination board is also being changed in this context. That too has brought about a very harsh criticism. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs then, after this merciless criticism, when the committee itself considered that this was not necessarily going to be a good thing, decided to make a statement that the impact of this change would then be assessed in two years' time in accordance with the statement. Mr President! Let me see if this was five minutes or ten? [The President : 10 minutes. ] Mr President! Let me then turn to this joint protest from the Social Democrats and the opposition. Therefore, in the light of what I have just read, we do not agree to the transfer of the National Education Evaluation Centre, as short as Karvi, and the Office of the Student Qualifications Board into separate units of the Finnish National Board of Education. The Centre’s operating model has been effective and valued and no justification has been established for changing its structure. Cooperation at different levels of education with its organisers and implementers has been constructive and constructive according to our knowledge. We believe that independent and independent evaluation of education and training must not be jeopardised and that there should be no risk involved. The working group that prepared the bill met only four times. The bill and its explanatory memorandum do not take sufficient account of the needs and requirements of independent training evaluation activities. The draft law proposes to transform the status of the National Education Evaluation Centre from the current independent agency into a separate unit of the Finnish National Board of Education. The national and international credibility of education and training would require that the independence of evaluation activities cannot be called into question. The draft law will prevent independent, credible and reliable external evaluation of education from being carried out at national level. Professor Jouni Välijärvi, president of the Higher Education Evaluation Council, stated in a written opinion to the Committee on Education how the proposed reform also placed the evaluation of higher education institutions in an integral part of the national education administration, which was precisely the aim of the establishment of Karvi. The risk is high that the value of Finnish evaluation expertise in the international context will be significantly weakened. The change in Karvi's position is also justified by the economic savings initially achieved and the efficiency of the administration. However, neither the explanatory statement nor the expert consultation showed any real savings. The Government's proposal also includes several weakenings of the independence of the matriculation examination board and therefore its special position in the Finnish education system. The proposal, that is to say the government proposal, does not understand the nature of the work of the panel, where the office, for example, cannot be seen as a mere unit producing support services for the boards, but both are entirely dependent on each other. The matriculation examination is unique in the Finnish education system because it is the only part of general education in which the external body assesses all participants with the same criteria. In its own opinion, the Student Qualifications Board has made clear to the Committee on Education how a government proposal would undermine the independence and special position of the Student Qualifications Board in the education system. This proposal means that the administrative authority would have the power to no longer be able to carry out independent tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u108	Värderade fru talman! Studentexamen har en oavhängig ställning inom det finländska undervisningssystemet och leds, organiseras och verkställs av studenttexamensnämnden. Det auri förslaget om att flytta över Nationella centret för utbildningsutvändering och studenttexamnsnämndens kansli till fristående enheter vid Utbildningstyrelsen riskerar dock att försvaga utbildningsutvänderingens Oberoende status i Finland. Vi kan inte dark på nämndens Oberoende ställning då studenttexamensnämndens oavhängiget är viktigare än de strukturella förändringar man vill uppnå genom förslaget. Det vore därför battre om det Nationella centret för utbildningsutvändering och studenttexamensnämndens kansli skulle stanna kvar under undervisnings- och kulturministeries Bookföringsenhet. Till sist vill jag aven tillagga att Ålands landskapsregering inte har hörts under lagberedningen trots att studenttexamen på Åland scöts av studenttexamensnämnden. Det har inte Heller varit tuöjligt för Åland att följa med lagsliftningsprocessen effectersom utkastet till proposition aldrig översattes till svenska. När ärenden berör landskapet på det oxättet brode landskapsregeringens utlåtande alltid inhämtas under beredningen och propositionen och lagförslag och utkast finnas tillgängliga på svenska.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u109	Madam President! First of all, I support Mr Gustafsson's proposals. I listened carefully to this speech, and the Committee on Culture must have done a good job, and these concerns seemed real. In that sense, there is good reason to object in this regard. All in all, if the reform of this system of evaluation of education from the point of view of experts and the texts of the committee as a whole leads in very critical terms to the risk that the independence and independence of this system will be jeopardised, then of course it will be a very serious place overall. Also, if there are no real savings, I wonder why all of this has been done. I also understood that this statement on the status of the matriculation examination boards is very necessary. In this respect, too, the committee has done a good job. I would like, Mr President, to raise one point in this very speech, which is a little related to this subject of the future reform of the matriculation examination. There has been a working group there, whose work is now in the statement. I have recently received a message of concern from, among other things, native-language teachers who fear that this reform will change the position of the mother tongue so that instead of the current 2 days and 6 hours, there will be 1 day and 4 hours. Of course I understood that the ministry has not yet made the final decisions, but that these matters are now being considered. In this context, I wanted to convey and express this concern, because I find it a little difficult from a lay point of view, because, nevertheless, the literacy of a young person and a child and the promotion of all of it and my mother tongue in general is very important, so I also wanted to express this concern in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u110	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Löfström for his attention on this issue. I would also like to draw attention to the criticism expressed by the representative that the Swedish language had not been translated and that the Åland provincial administration had not been able to make a statement. Now that this is combined with the criticism that was recorded in this report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy itself, of which I wanted to make a very small contribution in my speech, this does not represent the best preparation of legislation from the Ministry of Education and Culture either. Of course, as a former Minister of Education, I am not going to take this opportunity to criticise when I do not know the background, but here is the reason why it would be safest to reject this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u111	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 2/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u112	Mr President! Every year we receive reports from the Nordic Council, the OSCE parliamentary delegation and the European Council. And now this year a new approach was adopted: in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we consulted the chairmen and secretaries of all these delegations at one time and had a debate not only on last year but also on topical issues in particular so that topical issues could also be dealt with between these Councils. This reform has proved to be a useful way of increasing the exchange of information on international issues among the various actors involved. As far as the Nordic Council is concerned, I would like to start by emphasising that the UaV welcomes the fact that the Nordic Council has been dealing more and more with foreign and security policy issues in recent years. It is important that the opportunities offered by this forum also be used to discuss issues related to Finnish security. Above all, Nordic cooperation on foreign, security and defence policy is very important for Finland. Together, we can strengthen the security of our region and strengthen our influence on international issues. With regard to defence policy cooperation, the Nordic Council held 16 debates during the reporting year under the chairmanship of Nordefco, Denmark. Among other things, the security situation in the Baltic Sea region and cooperation with the United States were highlighted. The UaV also welcomes the fact that the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 was on the agenda at the Nordic Council meetings and the Nordic countries have begun to explore ways of promoting sustainable development goals in a joint Nordic context. Many of the 2030 targets are at the heart of both Finland and the other Nordic countries' foreign policy and development cooperation, and it is natural that close Nordic cooperation is being carried out around them. Mr President! With regard to cooperation between the Nordic countries and Russia, the UaV stresses the importance of continuing the parliamentary dialogue, although cooperation with Russia is still not possible in the normal way. It is good that this dialogue approach is also reflected in the report on Russia adopted by the Nordic Council of Ministers in the reporting year. The Committee also welcomes the fact that North-West Russia has been able to launch cooperation programmes during 16 years, including in the areas of the environment and climate. In the field of migration The cooperation of the Nordic countries has also been intensive during the reporting year. The Committee on Foreign Affairs particularly welcomes the decision of the Nordic countries to set up a common centre of excellence in integration in Stockholm. As a result of the refugee crisis, the border controls introduced by Denmark and Sweden during the reporting year were at odds with the principle of free movement between the Nordic countries. In this context, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that efforts must be made to resolve migration issues by intensifying cooperation between the Nordic countries and the EU, with the aim of ending border controls between the Nordic countries. The committee is pleased to note that recent developments have moved in this direction. With regard to freedom of movement, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also stresses the importance of dismantling border barriers. We in the committee welcome the fact that the focus on border barrier work has been continued during the reporting year and has also been raised as a cross-cutting theme for Finland's presidency of the Nordic Council this year. In addition to dismantling border barriers, it is important to prevent them when creating new legislation. Mr President! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we believe that the involvement of parliamentarians in the strengthening of the Nordic foreign, security and defence policy within the Nordic Council will continue to be important. It is good that these issues have been taken into account in the programme of the Finnish Presidency. The Presidency gives Finland an important opportunity to bring up current international issues for discussion in the Nordic contacts that are important to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u113	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for that presentation of your report. As a member of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland and also as chairman of its working group on border barriers, I am very pleased that the committee, in its own report, had drawn attention to border issues and barriers. Although we are in a common European Union, unfortunately, we still have a lot of border barriers between the EU and the Nordic countries, not to mention the kind of removal and solution that goes with the Nordic countries that are not in the EU. However, with the Nordic Council's very long and good action, we have been able to eliminate them a great deal, and perhaps in some way it is now looking for a new form of border barrier work to be stepped up. The working group on border barriers has approached the Presidents of all parliaments, and it would also be desirable that Parliaments should go through what could already be done at the legislative stage to take account of the absence of new border barriers. To some extent, such consideration is being taken in Finland, but it is not very systematic, not to mention that it would be systematically used throughout all the Nordic countries. A few border barriers are being dismantled all the time. It has been wonderful that Finland led the work of the Border Obstacle Council last year by Risto E. J. Penttilä, and cooperation with the new chairman will continue this year. But it also requires a strong political commitment to remove border barriers. Undeniably, last year the situation was a little peculiar, when these free borders within the Nordic countries suddenly came under border controls. They were then abandoned quite soon in the north, and now, according to the latest information, they are also beginning to be abandoned between Sweden and Denmark. Of course, they have brought a lot of commervents to the people, since they have not been visible to the same extent for decades. This does not mean that the border was not controlled. Mr President! I would also like to thank the committee for raising the issue of cooperation with Russia in your report. It has, of course, been quite difficult for the Nordic Council as a result of the situation in Crimea, and perhaps it is also concerned with the Arctic Council's cooperation, but it would be good to be able to work together on environmental and climate issues, because if there were any disasters there, the climate will be common, so that then the problems will be reflected across the borders of the country. Therefore, the investments in renewable energy are important and the attempt to curb black coal again on the Arctic Council's side, where all the Nordic countries are together. In other words, these overlap with the work of both Nordic Councils and Arctic Councils. I would also like to point out from this last year's report that, with a great deal of colleagues, we have considered transport policy issues and also labour market issues in the Nordic countries on the agenda. The Nordic Council made the labour market report by Poul Nielson, and there are still many things that we can do to make it happen, such as, for example, the transfer of unemployment fund contributions from one country to another, and how social security contributions would go together if there were unemployment. There is a lot of such small legalism, which, however, may be quite a big thing in people’s personal lives. On cross-border transport projects, now that a new TEN-T network and an update are being carried out at European level. It would be very important for the Nordic countries to drive these northern projects there: to connect Finland and Sweden through the rails — there will only be 10 kilometres of electrifying section — to get the Arctic Ocean on the last track. Norway is active in it, but the chips may have been a little smaller in this country. And then, at the end of the day, I would like to stress that we have a border prevention advisory body, funded by the Nordic Council of Ministers, and regional associations have also been involved in it. Finland has two people on the Finnish-Swedish border and on the Finnish-Norwegian border who are doing the practical work with entrepreneurs and residents. There should be an established form for this, as is the case between the Swedish and Norwegian Border Barriers Councils, and not always a part-time application for funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u114	Mr President! It was interesting to listen to President Matti Vanhanen's speech and a broad presentation of the Nordic Council's activity report. While listening to you, I may have thought a little more deeply about this situation, where we are now living in Finland and the Nordic countries. When it comes to this Brexit climate, Trump's protective weather and so on, it is easy to think of and emphasize how important this Nordic cooperation in its various forms is, because we still have a truly common value base, as we have now seen from these examples when seeking closer and closer cooperation and interaction through the labour market situation, unemployment funds, social security and so on. Thank you for the good contributions that have been made on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u115	Madam President! For me, too, this Nordic cooperation is not so personally familiar, I am not a member of these councils and others, but I would be happy to use it in the style of Mr Gustafsson, because I see the same way. I have often thought about it and sometimes listened to the discussions in this Chamber, how important it is for the various sectors to take into account the intensification of Nordic cooperation and its potential, then there were many things at stake. Among other things, Mr Gustafsson mentioned these post-Brexit worlds and others, and it certainly reflects quite well why we need such cooperation between certain countries with a common value base. The committee has done a good job here, and I think it was important to note, among other things, that there is emphasis on this opportunity for Nordic and Russian parliamentary cooperation. I think that is very important in itself, and although things are often difficult and other, I do see it as a good line for the overall benefit. I am sure that we have both a little worse and better examples of this in our own country, but I think it is important now that this line of approach in the committee goes in the direction that this parliamentary cooperation is intended to be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u116	Mr President! Representative Gustafsson, this kind of deeper observation is quite right. Yes, the Nordic countries make up a unique community throughout the world, you can say that the five independent states are so close culturally and, you can say, with regard to their whole welfare model and through their legislation. This ongoing dialogue between the Nordic Council parliamentarians and legislators has certainly had a very significant impact on the fact that this type of integration has taken place. After all, it has been seen now, I believe, in all international cooperation — In the Nordic Council, but also in other co-operations — that, with the world getting restless, it has led all the Nordic countries to look at each other somehow. It is a great asset to us that we have such a community. This dialogue also in the direction of Russia: when you compare what we have between the Nordic countries, just on the everyday level of people, then in the direction of Russia, this kind of genuine dialogue has actually been missing always. It has been an authority cooperation for the highest politicians and also for business. But a genuine one in which almost a week's debates are held by parliamentarians every year, in which they learn to understand things in the same way, has been completely absent from us from the other side, 180 degrees. And it is not so much for the Baltic countries either that there is quite a lot to learn about how this type of cooperation could build a much more stable environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-30-ps-60.u117	Mr President! I was also thinking about this broader Nordic aspect when it emerged in the debate. Yesterday the prime ministers from the Nordic countries were gathered in Bergen, and last year's approach to the corresponding meeting was to make the Nordic countries the most integrated region in the world. Many of these world upheavals and turmoils that are taking place were mentioned here in the Chamber. The Nordic countries, however, are an historic success story. There are not so many countries in the world that are so prosperous and prosperous and able to work so closely together on such a broad front. Then there are a lot of acute topical policy issues in which the Nordic countries seek alliances with each other and do influence work at different tables, and one of them is, for example, related to renewable energy objectives. What is the obligation to mix biofuels? Finland set it at 30 per cent, Sweden may set it at as much as 50%, and then we in the European Union should be able to lobby to the point that we can also get rid of fossil fuels as quickly as possible. Last year, the Nordic Council also discussed this global context, how the Nordic countries could act if not on the G20 tables at that level, and one example is that Sweden is currently a member of the UN Security Council. It is very important for all the other Nordic countries, if any of us are in the UN Security Council. And the Nordic Investment Bank, which celebrated the even years last year and where the Baltics are also on the way, has also played a very important role in the way in which cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltics has been stepped up.
