ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a story in front of us. SS. Fascists. For 6 days thousands of young people on the streets of Polish cities have been protesting - protesting in defence of their dignity, in defence of their freedom, in defence of the right to choose, in defence of the right to abortion. This is war, and you will lose this war. [[Applause]] We're gonna win. And who is responsible for this war? Madame, this is not a formal proposal. Vice Minister Kaczyński, this is your responsibility. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] I ask for a formal request, Madame. Turn on the mike, please. Request a formal request and no shouting here. Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. That's where I'm going with this. Okay, I'm listening. What's going on in Poland... No, no, but I am listening to the formal proposal, Madame. Then turn on the mike. That's what I'm trying to do. You're welcome. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Learn to read. What is happening in Poland is beyond all limits. Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński is responsible. [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the noise in the room.]] Member, I call you to order. Please don't interrupt... Because of you. Stop turning off the mic, man. Please file a formal application or leave the podium. ...for a break... Microphone! [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] ...and supplement the agenda with information from the Minister of the Interior about the events on the street. Mickiewicz in Warsaw, Katowice and yesterday's pl. Three Crosses in Warsaw, when the police, although they did not want to, used force and gas against protesters, against peacefully protesting people. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! What about churches? I don't know what you're taking, but take half. Nobody listens to you even in the PiS. Stop it. How much does it cost to protect your house, coward?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u2	It was a formal request for a break. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that if someone here... the importance of the House, it is unfortunately the right side with these shouts and you marshal with your foolish remarks. Ladies and gentlemen! What happens on Polish streets is broadcast by Polish media. I would like to point out that the way public media broadcasts what is happening on the streets is simply a lie. That's not true. [[Applause]] Mr. President Kaczyński! The fact that they're going to show that it's you that's being oppressed, it's just not true, because you're the one that's being oppressed by Poles. Don't lie to me. I'm making a formal request, Mr. Marshal, for a recess and for the completion of the agenda for the bill we filed in the Sejm, which is going to make 2 billion... Because it is necessary to explain to Poles: it is not that we voted whether you voted 2 billion for public media once a year. We'll have to add to the security of journalists. No, in the new year, in 2021, again PLN 2 billion will be transferred to this PiS-owska scumbag, which you call media. Today we have tabled a bill on behalf of the Civic Coalition, which transfers the 2 billion from 2021, even before the budget comes into force, to fight COVID, to fight COVID. [[Applause]] Journalists are afraid to go out on the street. Let the Poles assess whether these 2 billion new 2 billion are needed by health services, to those who are fighting COVID, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or Kurskie, Kaczyński... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Thank you very much. Mr President, this is a request for a break. Request for a recess and a follow-up to the agenda, Mr. Marshal. We have to win the election first. Yeah, I heard. I heard. Don't manipulate me because you're a Marshal of the Sejm, and you can't... Sit down! Mr President, don't lecture me and leave the podium. Can you teach us? You don't lecture me either. Please don't... Reliable public information is just as much an element of state security as other services. Don't tell me... Step out of the podium, please. I applied for... Sit down! I heard what you put together, and it's on the record. Don't manipulate me. [[Applause]] You're the one screaming, sir. Fame, you're getting old. A few years ago...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u4	Please leave the podium. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 184 Rules of Procedure apply for interruption and inclusion of two Left laws on the agenda. One is a rescue bill, according to which doctors and women cannot be punished for abortion and the other is the liberalisation of abortion law. We demand the liberalisation of abortion law... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Some Members enter the platform with posters]] Sit down! First change the constitution. Respect for churches. Sit down!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u6	Members, please leave the platform and hide these posters. Legal abortion. It's a woman's call. Members, I must warn you that I will have to use emergency measures. [[Some Members gather at the benches of Members of the Law and Justice]] Punishment, punishment. Oh, my gosh, the president's hurt. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. Oh, dear, the police. Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Applause]] Bravo! Sit down. Sir... I'm declaring a recess, and I'm asking the Marshal's Guard to intervene. Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Some Members chant: This is war! This is war! This is war! Duck, run. I ask the Marshal's Guard to restore order in the courtroom. Some Members chant: This is war! This is war! This is war! I've announced a recess. Please clear the room. Give me that guard. Where's the guard? [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 22 hours 10 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! In view of the situation that has taken place in the last few minutes, I am forced to take extraordinary measures. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, based on Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. He's sitting right here. Madame, you still do not allow your deliberations to be held. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the Freedom of choice. He's sitting right here. But the Member is there. Mr. Marshal, the Member is sitting there. He's in bench six. The Member is in his seat. It's okay. Freedom of choice. Constitution, constitution! Mr Sławomir Nitras, based on Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. Scheuring's in sixth row. Stop it. Cover your nose. How can you not be ashamed to destroy women? How embarrassing are you? Don't touch the women. Maybe I'll take a half-hour to... I've announced a recess, but we have the situation we have. Take it easy. Mr. Marshal, half an hour's rest maybe... Mrs Jachira, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. But you have no reason to rule it out. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. But, Marshal, these Members are here. Madam, you are still preventing the proceedings from taking place. Mr. Marshal, this doesn't make any sense. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm today. Mr. Marshal, this doesn't make any sense. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. Get out of here. Please leave this place immediately. Get out of here. Mr. Marshal, all right, take a break. Let's hear it. No, there's no way to speak right now. Mr. Marshal, the president of the club is asking for the floor. Mr. Marshal, please speak. In a minute. You're afraid of women. How embarrassing are you, Mr. Chairman? Tell the truth, you're afraid of women. Mrs Jachira is excluded from the proceedings. Please leave the room. What? Who? All of them. Does the Marshal's Guard want to protect one Member? ...a secular state. Are you sure about this? This is more stupid than Kuchciński did. Constitution. Mrs Jaruga-Nowacka, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. This is a fire. There is no such messenger. There is no such messenger. Who's Jaruga-Nowacka, man? That's disgusting. Mr. Marshal, it won't do any good. Mr. Marshal, give the floor to the President. Mr Sławomir Nitras, based on Article. 175 calling you to order. That's disgusting. How can a saintly memory... Get your shit together. My mother died ten years ago. I do. Because of your mistakes. Mr. Marshal, give the floor to the President. Mr Szczerba. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. Just because you don't respect your father... Mr. Marshal, it won't do any good. This is a bad idea. In a minute, take it easy. This is a bad idea, Mr. Marshal. It'll only lead to escalation. This is a bad idea. Announce a recess... But I announced, it didn't give any results. Speak up, Marshal. In a minute. Mr. Marshal, really give the floor to the president of the club. In a minute. Mr Nitras, based on Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. This is democracy. Mr Nitras, you are still preventing proceedings from taking place. This is democracy? On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the You have no right to cover me up. ...I'm making a decision to exclude you... I am a messenger to the Sejm and I have the right to record. ...from the Sejm meeting today. I'm a messenger. I have the right to record. I have resumed the proceedings, sir. Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. Mrs Jaruga-Nowacka, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4... Suski's red file. ...the rule of the Sejm, I call you to order and say that you are prevented from holding your deliberations. Mr. Marshal, please speak. You want it. Your Members, who are still standing there, please return to your seat. Disgraceful! Don't hide behind the word abortion. Mrs... This is not a church state, you have no right to abuse women. Have you ever heard of natural law? Mr. Marshal, allow the club president to speak... Some Members chant: Get to work! Get to work! Get to work! The diners, the most important diners. Because you weak and disabled people would do the same thing as unborn children. No compromise. You're not gonna tell me what to do. Don't insult the voters. Mr. President, I think you've taken the floor from the street too literally and you're leaving. I declare another break - 10 minutes - and call the Senior Convention to the dark living room. Let me remind you that two Members are excluded from the Chamber today, and I ask these Members to leave the Chamber, and if not, I ask the Marshal's Guard to ensure that these Members leave the Chamber. [[Game in the O.R.]] During the break, I ask the Marshal's Guard to remove Members who have been disfellowshipped from the Chamber. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 35 hours 10 min 45]] High Seym! I'm reopening the session. I'm declaring a time-out. 11.30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 45 hrs. 11 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. Will the session be held with the Marshal's Guard? We still have formal proposals before we proceed to the vote. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal... We'd like to sign up for questions. He's not in the O.R. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish. Way to go, girls. Mr. Marshal, you can't sign up for questions. You're welcome, sir. But I'm standing...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, a request for a break for you not to escalate. The conflict in this House, let's just solve the problems. Exactly. Bravo! There's 16,000. infections, patients with COVID, are a problem on the streets. What's going on in the Seym... You see the protests. Politics is about solving problems. The Marshal's Guard is from watching the Sejm, not the MPs. [[Applause]] Exactly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Take the Marshal's Guard. There is one solution: not to publish a judgment, write a referendum, enter the result of a referendum into the Constitution. And that's what I'm calling for. This is a clear and logical solution. And I have the right. That's what I'm saying. Mr. Marshal... We have the right to say this because there is an emergency. Scandal! There's a higher need. Constitution. Yeah, the constitution, because there's a higher need. Eliminate the Polish state. Marshal, take the Marshal's Guard. There is a state of higher necessity and we need to save Poland. Mr. Marshal, we can come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk with a formal proposal. Can I enroll for questions? Mr Tomczyk. You're welcome to let the Member pass. What's that even? The Member is going to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! First of all, I protest against the use of the Marshal's Guard in this way. Today, Members cannot vote, they cannot move freely around the Chamber because you treat the Marshal's Guard as if it were some kind of service in a totalitarian state. Bravo! Disgraceful! Shame! That is not the case, the Marshal's Guard is from defending the Sejm to guard the work of the Sejm... It's okay. ...not to use her as a security agency for Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] That's not gonna happen. Scandal! Mr. Marshal! Marshal - I address Marshal Terletki - Mr. Marshal, you are a Marshal of the Sejm, not a Marshal of the PiS, and that is the fundamental difference. We have to work in the O.R. today, we have to make this disgraceful... You are a Member of Poland, not from the murder of children. ...the judgment of the Constitutional Court was never a judgment, because it is not, we do not recognise this tribunal and we do not recognise that judgment. [[Applause]] All the responsibility, all the responsibility for a situation that... Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution! ...it's happening in Poland, it's falling on you, Mr. President. [[♪ The bell ♪]] President Jarosław Kaczyński is personally responsible for this. You have led the Constitutional Tribunal not to exist, and that is your responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u10	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm filing a motion against it. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Mr Sosnierz, please make a formal request. It's against.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u11	We have just heard Members of the Platform and the Left screaming: this is war! Guys, take it easy, keep your emotions warm. There's gonna be blood on the streets and people are gonna say that they heard in the Seym that there's a war because they kill each other in the war. You screamed war! In connection with the events of the last few days, I am making a formal request to convene the Senior Convention and to add to the agenda a discussion on the request to dismiss Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński because the government has no control over the situation on the streets. [[Applause]] In the last few days, there has been a wave of aggression in the streets that has been fueled and supported by the politicians of the Left and the Civic Coalition. There are acts of vandalism, destruction of property, desecration of temples, physical attacks, ascension of vulgar, hateful shouts and violations of the health restrictions that they themselves voted for. And the government shows itself only weak against the strong and strong against the weak, because the demonstration... You brought this on yourself when you signed the T.K. application. You should have taken a pill this morning. ...an anti-massage chased away with all ruthlessness Just to look at angry feminists and people who paint churches. [[Applause]] Sit down. You brought this on yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u12	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Your Sejm, I will now put to the vote a request for a break which has been submitted. You don't like the constitution anymore? Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. You want to change it on the streets. Who's against it? Who's holding back? You keep your mouth shut, ladies boxer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Women's boxer, women's boxer. I wouldn't touch yours. I hope the court convicts you. I believe in the court. I believe in the court. The Marshal is blocking the podium. Mr. Marshal, on what basis is the Marshal's Guard here? Epidemiological. 431 Members voted. For - 201, against - 227, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. There's still a formal application. Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u13	Dear Marshal, I ask for an adjournment, a meeting of the Bureau and of the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the procedure because you've illegally ruled out two Members... Legally, legally. ...including sleep. Mrs. Jaruga-Nowacka. Apologize for those words or correct them. [[Applause]] Plus we have 16 grand. infections. You declared war on Poles and Poles. Poles are on the streets. They can't accept your pseudo-Constitution Tribunal. You guys started a war. Therefore, please follow the procedures, declare a recess, and convene the Sejm's Rules of Procedure if you wish to obey the law, Marshal. [[Applause]] You're the ones shouting war!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u14	Mr President, we have just voted on the request for a break and it has been rejected and the Rules of Procedure Committee will be convened. Unlock the cards. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point including information on the Minister for Family and Social Policy on the functioning of the programme of comprehensive support for families, programmes financed by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and possible consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020 (sign. K 1/20). Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda for this information. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the centenary of the adoption of the first law on cooperatives in Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 676 and 675 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the cups and the circle in discussions on the report on the draft resolution on commemorating the centenary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives in Poland. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to six-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in discussions on the information of the Minister for Family and Social Policy. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the availability of gynecologists, gynecologists, gynecologists, including women with disabilities, prenatal examinations and abortion procedures, as requested by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Now I ask the secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u15	Dear Members, I would like to inform you that today there will be committee meetings: - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - obsolete; - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11 a.m. 12:30 p.m. and 12:30 p.m. 13.30; - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15; - Public Finance - hour. 12 hours 5.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. 2.30 p.m.; Marshal, escort the Marshal's Guard out. - Health-- hour. 2.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. 19; - Economy and Development - h.m. 20; - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17. Thank you. Marshal, escort the Marshal's Guard out of the room. Take out the Marshal's Guard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u16	Mr President, I am responsible for the smooth functioning of the Sejm. Do not violate the seriousness of this House. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Family and Social Policy on the functioning of the comprehensive support programme for families K 1/20). Do not violate the seriousness of this House. Hello, this is the Polish Parliament. Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion, please. Formal applications have already been made. Minister of Family and Social Policy, please... Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal request. ...Mrs Marlena Maląg to present the information. Mr. Marshal... Don't disturb me, sir. You'll have time after that speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The last ruling of the Constitutional Court raises social emotions... Ma'am, we can't see you. ...used by the opposition for ad hoc political purposes. We can't watch this. The same opposition, which, even recently, with its full power, has done little for women. [[Applause]] making a heroic decision to give birth to a child with a severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness. Some Members chant: You have no voice! You don't have a voice! You don't have a voice! I'm talking to you as a family minister, a woman. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You don't have a voice. I've got a government attorney with me to support people with disabilities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you wasted $20 million on the hospice? Therefore, I would like to remind you that it was the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right that was the first and only government to prepare a programme of comprehensive support for families... Some Members chant: Hell of women! Woman's hell! Woman's hell! ...the program of life. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! To fight for dignity, you have to live first. The expenditure on support for people with disabilities when we compare governments, 2015 is over PLN 15 billion, today, in 2020 it is over PLN 27 billion. [[Applause]] The Lifetime Programme primarily introduces innovative solutions and provides the first comprehensive support for people with disabilities and their families. In particular, the programme concerns early support for child development, care, including palliative care or rehabilitation, support for pregnant women and their families in case of complicated pregnancy. I can't see from where I belong. We thought about helping and securing the specially sensitive needs of families. Sir, you're blocking it. In accordance with the financial plan of the programme, we allocated more than PLN 3 billion to the implementation of the programme in 2017 and 2021. [[Applause]] In the next budget, for the years 2022 to 2026, we spend PLN 3200 million. In order to make the High House aware of the wide range of this programme, I will allow myself to exchange these tasks. I would ask you to pay attention to this and listen. The support of pregnant women and their families mainly involves taking care of pregnant women, especially when pregnancy is complicated. We provide psychological care to families and children with a fatal defect, and also, when necessary... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Madam, please don't disturb me. Minister of Family and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...Palliative care. [[Applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Lie! We're developing a network of mothers' homes with minors and pregnant women... [[Applause]] Lie! ...to, above all, increase availability. We create solutions to help pregnant schoolgirls to continue their studies. The solutions introduced in the Labour Code help parents combine their work with their children's upbringing. What are you saying? The objectives included in the children's co-ordinated care program are early diagnosis of... Hypocritical. ...to treat children born with severe dysfunction. This form of benefits allows you to finance integrated neonatological, multi-specialist and paediatric care. We create centres, above all coordination and rehabilitation centres, caring for children to be supported in their proper development. Oh, and Mr. Kaczynski where? The Ministry of National Education has already signed 305 such agreements. We finance childcare facilities with disabilities up to 3 years old. High Izbo! The government noted that parents who care for children with disabilities must take care of them for longer than 8 years of age. First of all, we have extended this period to 18 years of age. Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a formal motion. In addition, in the case of the birth of a child with severe, irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening disease, we have introduced a one-off benefit. So far, 14,000 have benefited from this benefit. persons. We paid over PLN 57 million. [[Applause]] The main additions are the tasks related to support, rehabilitation. Mr. Marshal... These include, above all, (The Bell) developing environmental networks of self-help homes, supporting those existing ones, as well as extending their activities through the possibility of people with combined disabilities or from the spectrum of autism. It is also a huge support for people with disabilities. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very often, a woman who gives birth to a child with a serious disability remains alone with heroism. Exactly. That is why we have introduced solutions and regulations aimed primarily at improving the execution of alimony. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no way to omit another instrument to support people with disabilities. It's the Solidarity Fund. 13 million for Rydzyk. From this fund since 1 October 2019 we finance, among others. supplementary benefits of up to PLN 500 for persons unable to live independently. Within the framework of this fund, so much needed programs are functioning efficiently: personal assistant of a disabled person, care services for people with disabilities, rest and care centers People have been cheering on the streets for days. So far, only the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, has taken such effective and effective action. [[Applause]] Go to the streets and listen. Together with the Solidarity Fund in 2019 and 2020 we will spend over PLN 14 billion on programmes. This year, an additional programme was also launched: Medical services from the National Health Fund for people with disabilities. It is primarily intended to provide professional support for people with disabilities, to help them take up their professional activities. As a result, dialogue with the environment of people with disabilities... The Minister present here, the representative of the Government for Disabled Persons, Mr Paweł Wdzik, has spoken to them many times. We develop solutions together with the environment of people with disabilities, [[Applause]] listening to their needs. The government, while listening to their needs, created primarily a programme of personal assistance for a disabled person, extended its operation, and created a program of rest-care for family members or carers of persons with disabilities. We have extended these programmes so that they include not only local government units but also NGOs. We want to act efficiently and effectively in behalf of another human being, [[Applause]] That's the kind of support he needs. We are also introducing additional funding under the current assistive service programme. First of all, we are expanding the programme so that as many people as possible can benefit from it, including the rest care program, which is so much needed for parents of children with disabilities. ...this bill is in the basket. Action has also been taken, which is primarily intended to translate into the implementation of the next programmes for 2021. We are working with the team under the direction of Minister Wdewik, but also with the environments of people with disabilities. Last week's judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal states that a provision allowing abortion to be admissible in the event of a high likelihood of severe, irreversible impairment of the foetus or an incurable disease threatening its life is incompatible with the basic law. Ladies and gentlemen, human life is a value in every stage of development. As a source of constitutional provisions, it should be protected by a fundamental law. The effects of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal will relate in particular to the increased need for all forms of support for pregnant women and their families implemented through the Lifetime Programme. What's that? We will present these enlargements to you. I speak to you as a woman, as a minister, especially as a mother of grown daughters and grandmother grandchildren. The fate of Polish women is important to us. It's a lie. We protected Polish women, protected Polish families. [[Applause]] We are the ones who are introducing solutions that are primarily intended to provide care, support our Polish families. It's a lie. Then why did they go out on the streets? Ladies and gentlemen! In order to fight for dignity, we must be able to live first. We have no right to kill unborn children. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the actions taken by the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right are primarily about the Life Programme and the Solidarity Fund to protect and support women, families and children and adults with disabilities who need this support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! Shame, shame, shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u18	Thank you, Minister. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mr Paweł Wdzik, will now speak. How can you lie so impudently? Mr. Marshal... Right after that point. Be patient. You've been tortured... Quiet! Quiet! Shut up! Shut up! Order! This is the feminine gentleness, angels. Respect more! You're not an angel, unfortunately, even though you really want to be. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u19	High Izbo! I'd like to start... I'd like you to make a statement about a disabled person who hasn't been admitted. If he can't react... I'll learn not to react in time, but it's still distracting me. With regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, I would like to read you first of all the article. 10 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This convention, ratified by Poland under the rule of the Civic Platform, but ratified unanimously, is a guarantee of equal civil rights for people with any disability. Fortunately, this is a law that has not yet been questioned by anyone, from left to right, that those affected by any disability have full civil rights. Art. The 10th Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is entitled: Right to Life. The States Parties confirm that every human being has an inalienable right to life and take appropriate steps to enable disabled persons to effectively enforce this right on an equal footing with other citizens - the end of this Article. It is thanks to this judgment - and I am saying this at the moment primarily as a disabled person - that we finally feel that no one refuses to live because of disability. That, of course... I don't know if there's a habit of appealing to conscience in the Seym... That's not your job. Quiet! ...but I would like to say to you that what is happening at the moment is a manifest manipulation, because we know very well that these more than a thousand abortions that are going on, in the vast majority, relate to the situation of the suspicion of disability, not to fatal defects. And it's worth saying that by taking 14-, 15-year-olds to the street. [[Applause]] Walking out... They left on their own. You're manipulating children. People with disabilities can be happy. People with disabilities can live happily... No skull. ...having Down's syndrome, having no hands, not moving his legs, not walking, not hearing, not seeing. [[Applause]] I'm not a member of the PiS, you know that. I am here because this is the first government that has guaranteed people with disabilities the ability to influence their situation - the first government. [[Applause]] And I would like to tell you that, regardless of the political orientation of NGOs, these organisations work with the government represented by the government's representative for people with disabilities because they see an opportunity to change their situation. I don't want to mention examples when as an employee of the University of Warsaw I was hanging from your handle of this or any other representative of previous teams to ask for a three-minute audience. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Shame! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Right now, any person with disabilities twice a month can come and talk to me as much as he needs. [[Applause]] Why aren't people with disabilities allowed in today? The people in the wheelchairs were at the Sejm today. Keep your voice down, sir. What are you talking about? The people in the wheelchairs were in the Seym, under the Seym... What I'm saying is... Don't interrupt. Please don't disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: ...that manipulating people with disabilities is a thing that at least part of this Sejm comes out perfectly... [[Applause]] Such humiliation... The Member who is now screaming is supposed to defend the rights of people with disabilities. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: On the other hand, solutions such as Availability+, such as the Act that guarantees (the Bell) people with disabilities the digital accessibility of public services - you did not come up with this, did you? You didn't stop by, but the government of Law and Justice did. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Solidarity Fund, respite care - you fight so hard for it, why, then, at the moment when we announce a respite program, most local governments do not even want to bend over for this money? Disgraceful! They're your self-governments. We are launching a parallel programme for NGOs, and in the next step we will introduce this provision of rest and assistance to a disabled person as a solution that will be legally assigned to local governments, because it belongs to citizens with disabilities. [[Applause]] And we will not wait for local governments of one political orientation to take money or not, because this is given by the government of the PiS, the government of the United Right. Because you can't build a good show, that's why. That's the truth. You have lazy... I'll refrain from commenting on what you're doing because it's really embarrassing. [[Applause]] I'm sitting here in this room watching from the side what democracy looks like and what it's like to block a debate. It's just outrageous. [[Applause]] And then you'll have the audacity to show on foreign television, EU... What are EU TVs? EU countries. You will show how the constitution is broken. Mr. Marshal, I'm protesting something like this. Go ahead and finish it. Sit down. It's just annoying. I'm asking you to intervene. Minister, thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: Of course I will. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] Bravo! It's the right thing to say, and it's the right thing to do. This is a defense of the rights. You're hiding from the disabled...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u20	I understand the situation has calmed down a bit, High Sejm. [[Game in the O.R.]] You've been gone so far. I'm asking you to calm down. I was just gonna say, Mr. Rutnicki... You, bald man, you better keep your mouth shut. ...that understanding that the situation in the Seym has calmed down a bit, I would like to thank the gentlemen of the Marshal's Guard - thank you very much - and we will unlock the entrance to the platform. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Take that mask off. Soviet or SS? I hope this doesn't happen again. Now for a formal proposal, Mr Tomczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the Marshal's Guard was here in the courtroom is an absolute scandal. [[Touchdown, applause]] Thank God she was. Do not bring God into this. So that the Marshal's Guard would be treated in the same way as a private security agency? It's not, ladies and gentlemen... (PL) Mr President, a formal proposal, please. I'm filing a formal request for a recess. This is not your private party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] You said that already. Think of something new. If you are talking about a disability issue, we remember the protest of people with disabilities, which lasted 40 days and 40 nights. Forty days of shame. I remember what you did back then. And you didn't do anything exactly. [[Applause]] And that's the answer. These people weren't allowed in the Seym today. They wanted to watch today's session from the gallery. There's a pandemic, and you know it, and that's a threat. They bounced back from the Marshal's Watch and the pass office. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I demand that Members be restored so that they can sit. Mr Nitras, Mr Jachir, Members of the Left - these are the Members who have appealed. You've ruled them out in violation of the Sejm's rules. There was no Bureau, there was no Rules of Procedure. I demand that Members be reinstated as soon as possible so that they can participate in the deliberations of the Sejm and in the deliberations of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u22	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear six minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. But I'm asking you to vote on this. I'm opening a discussion. Vote! Vote for a break! Vote, Marshal. We've already voted on the request for a break. We will not vote on this again and again. But I made... Mr. President, would you please... Please don't interfere with this House's seriousness. We're about to call a rule committee on... Okay, but I'm gonna ask you to pass the recess. But why? After all, we voted half an hour ago. Game in the O.R. We want to work. Allow me. We, too, want to work, Member. The Rules of Procedure Committee will be convened and then a meeting of the Sejm Bureau will be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Mr. Ms Anna Milczanowska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the information provided by the Minister for Family and Social Policy on the functioning of the comprehensive support programme for families, the programmes financed by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and the possible consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020. Thank you very much, Minister Marlena Maląg and the Minister for their report, for their words. The subject matter of this information we have heard was the presentation of the actual state of play of the programme and the related financial instruments. This synthetic analysis results in a stable level for further actions, measures to improve both existing legal solutions and their adaptation to changing conditions; practically it comes down to ensuring standards at which not one woman nor one child will remain unsupported. [[Applause]] The comprehensive programme of the "For Life" became the first coherent, synthetic attempt to implement support for people with disabilities and their families in the Third Republic. It introduced many proposed and important solutions. Its primary objective from the beginning was to enable the real and full social integration of people with disabilities and psychological, social, functional and economic support for their families. And today, thanks to the precise monitoring of the implementation of the programme, we can assess its effects, but we can also introduce the necessary corrections and completely new solutions that will not only enable the underlying objectives of the programme to be met, but also respond to the new challenges. The smart and systematic development of the Lifetime Programme must result in a stable care guarantee for all children who are born with or are not fully operational, as well as for their families providing them with daily care, including legal and often complicated and difficult, hospice and palliative, for healing rehabilitation and medical supplies. That's our duty, and we can't be fired. And the unparalleled barbaric attack against the natural man of the holy right to life and the values we respect only strengthens this duty. Because life is the most important value we have on earth. And there is no responsibility for social life without responsibility for the life of a vulnerable child. But the development of the program, for life, today, we owe it to those who are not yet able to defend themselves and - which may be surprising - to those who have lost themselves in a world of lies promoting the civilization of death, whose bitterness of personal drama often leads to uncontrollable aggression, who are cynically and instrumentally exploited. Therefore, we must not give up in this service in defence of humanity. [[Applause]] I'd like to believe that everyone, including those throwing rocks... Let us remember that this Seym established the year 2020 as the Year of St. John Paul II... [[Applause]] And that was a mistake. ...and reminded us of the words of the great Pole in whom he taught us that no community can survive without true solidarity, but also solidarity cannot exist without love. [[Applause]] Let us remember his words: "Solidarity - that is, one and the other, and since the burden is a burden borne together in the community. So never, one against the other. That is why the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is determined to lead and support all activities developing the programme and financial instruments supporting the programme. We will also support any projects that allow the actions included in the Good and effective solutions are needed. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u24	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Barbara Nowack from the Civic Coalition Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! First of all, I'm running out of time, I haven't arrived yet, but I understand it's your method. My name is Barbara Nowacka and I expect you to apologize to my mother, sleep. Isabela Jaruga-Nowacka, whom you ruled out today. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! I'm just reminding you that the Smolensk disaster isn't yours and everyone died there. Just as Poland is not only yours and you have no right to own it. [[Applause]] And today... I apologise very kindly to the Member for the mistake. Of course, I did not exclude the Member or the sleeper. Madame, we're in session. I'm sorry. Thank you, Marshal. Although you do have the courage because Mr. Kaczyński's checked out. And I am speaking here on behalf of the thousands of women who are standing in protest today. Jesus, don't overdo it. Don't overdo it. On behalf of the families you've exposed to fear and exclusion. Don't shout, Macierevich. Shut up. On behalf of girls, young women (Gwar in the hall, bell) who know that Poland is not a friendly country for them, and will be afraid to decide on motherhood. Poland protects life. On behalf of those women who are being discharged from hospitals today, when they are denied the right to abortion at a fatal disadvantage, about which the Minister said you had psychological assistance. For children with a fatal defect? You'll learn, Minister. It's a shame and a disgrace. [[Applause]] Bravo! I am speaking here on behalf of those who say today: we will be afraid to have children in Poland who does not care about us. Because Poles and Poles can't be bought for $4,000. That's how you insult dignity. Nobody cares more about Poland. And on behalf of these people, I accuse you. I accuse you, PiS politicians, I accuse you, Jarosław Kaczyński... And we've got you. ...about the destruction of constitutional order, about bringing about chaos on Polish streets, about bringing about Polish-Polish war. Don't send your kids out on the streets. A war that only leads to one thing: contempt and hatred. 16,000. New diseases today. [[Applause]] 16,000. You're waging a war. And you guys are making a fuss in the Seym because you don't know the difference between lightning and other signs. Shame and shame. [[Applause]] We're making a fuss? I'm accusing you. I accuse you of taking away women's dignity, denying them the right to a safe and peaceful parenting. I accuse you of cynical exclusion of people with disabilities, of using them for your political war. You're lying... Mr Macierewicz, sir [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm accusing you. For the war on Smolensk. Please don't disturb me. Macierevich, don't interrupt. And the Poles won't forget it for you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Macierevich, don't interrupt. Lies. Don't listen to the explosions. Apologize. I accuse you that today families will live in fear. I'm accusing you of sending children to the street. I accuse you of lying and contempt for people with disabilities. I accuse you of this... And we're not accusing, we're stating the facts. ...that you think that any problem can be solved by throwing a penny, not giving a woman the right to choose... [[Applause]] You're acting against women. ...woman and family. And the most important thing for us is the welfare of women and families. Families who want to be happy, and women who can choose for themselves. What's good? Madam, keep your voice down. Because Polish women, ladies and gentlemen from PiS, because Polish women, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, are wise, ready to fight for their rights, dignity and constitution. And the constitution gives them the right to live in safe Poland. Mr. Kaczyński is responsible for security. He has to go. And we're asking you to reject the Minister's information. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Come down. Some Members chant: Hell of women! Woman's hell! Woman's hell!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u26	Mrs Iwona Hartwich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's right, you represent the hell of women. Please don't disturb me. I wanted to say two words to Mrs. Malag, or actually everything I have to say here. Minister! You can say that you spend a lot of millions on helping people with disabilities, but that doesn't translate into the real lives of those people. Mr. Marshal may be talking about me screaming, but if it's claiming the dignity of people with disabilities - I can scream. Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland, the situation of families with people with disabilities is dramatic. The Lifetime Programme is not directed to people after 18 years. What are we supposed to do, Minister, with our children when they're 18 and 1 day old? [[Applause]] They've been left to themselves for many years. Everything must be fought for: for a place in kindergarten - please do not disturb me. Through the Civic Platform. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Anthony, really... A place in kindergarten, a place in school, access to rehabilitation. Mr. Macierewicz, shut up. Pick up every rehab tournament tournament. Disabled people in Poland don't even have one free turnout. The PiS government tricked people with disabilities by law 520. And the platform was? Minister! Our families haven't saved a single dollar from this bill so far. There's no free drugs, there's no free pampers. Ladies and gentlemen, have millions been cut off for rest and care - you say there is more money? Why are you lying?! Shame! These measures are just less this year. But people with disabilities, especially those after 18. R.J., because of you, they are invisible, these families are invisible. 40 days on the seym floor, ladies and gentlemen, remember? Yes. 40 days of humiliation, humiliation... Disgraceful! Disgraceful! The disgrace of PiS! ...closed toilets, elevators, windows, cold vents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The challenge, we were challenged. The Minister, Marshal Karczewski, called us an epidemiological threat. Don't ever tell us it's normal. Because what happened in 2018 is insane. Why didn't you come to protesting people and say, "Why are you here at all and what do you need?" Where was Mr Kaczyński, who promised help in 2015 and kissed our hands? Where was Mr Morawiecki? Mr. Morawiecki, when he came to us for a protest, he couldn't even look Adrian and Cuba in the eye. Where was President Duda? Mr. President Duda has promised to help us, but he hasn't answered his phone for two days. When I heard, ladies and gentlemen, that there is this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, I knew that a festival of lies about how the PiS government is helping people with disabilities is about to begin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's not helping. Don't believe it. And I keep my fingers crossed for those women who are on the streets, and I'm with them every day because I can't imagine... [[Applause]] Bravo! [[Some Members get up and clap]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u28	Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club. A little truth, at least. A little truth. A woman's testimony, not a piS-owska new speech. Not propaganda and manipulation. Macierewicz isn't used to the truth, but he might listen... You're a liar... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr... Is Mrs Kotula in the room? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President Kaczyński! [[♪ The bell ♪]] You spit in women's faces and you're surprised today. You lied and you'll lie. You are terrified of these hundreds of thousands of women on the streets of Warsaw, Poznań, but also of Gryfina or Goleniów. Hundreds of thousands of women protest and have things to say to you that I will not quote in the Seym. Those are the words addressed to you. After the scandalous decision of your tribunal, at the request of your fellow Members. It's a woman's sentence! Madam, do you know what the information was about? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A sentence that condemns thousands of women to unnecessary pain, suffering that threatens their health and makes the decision on motherhood in Poland a Russian roulette today. And now? Today? You're desperately looking for solutions and a way of showing yourself on the right side. Today you are trying to show yourself as politicians who care about the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families. I'm telling you, this is not going to work, because whatever you're going to show today in your reports and on your television, it's Polish women, the same women who protest in the streets of cities and towns, they know better about the reality of caring for loved ones with disabilities. They're the ones who know from their experience what this care really looks like. And they know that nothing has changed in the last five years, and they probably haven't heard about your life program. Minister! You were talking about assumptions, but not execution. Okay, well, then we're going with specifics. 80 million - so much money you took from the budget from the support pool for people with disabilities and their families. You financed as many as 48 sheltered apartments throughout Poland from the program. 77 places in childcare facilities for children under 3 years Oh, scale... 125 families with disabilities have been assisted by employment agencies. This is not data for one municipality, city or county. These are data for the whole of Poland - actually impressive. How many vacations have been taken? They're swinging. Round zero. Nothing. Because for four years, the PiS couldn't... Exactly. ...write laws that allow them to be given. It's not over. Your bill is valid only until 18th year. What does that mean? For example, the fact that only until then there is no limit to the refund of diapers. After 18 birthdays they only have two a day. This is the dignity you promised people with disabilities and their guardians? Do you hear that cry of despair of the 60-year-old mothers of 40-year-old sons whose life is hell because you left them alone? Today, the main topic should be people who are completely independent, unemployed, requiring genuine support in all life activities 24 hours a day. There are 38 thousand such people in Poland today. You left them alone. Telling women today that you're forcing them to give birth, but after birth, you're gonna take care of them as mothers, that's just a criminal lie. A lie that no one believes in today in Poland. Few social groups in Poland are as lied to, cheated as people with disabilities and women who take care of them. Look out the window, hear that scream. Look what Polish women have to say to you. They don't believe you because they know the reality they have to live in. [[Applause]] Those 14-year-old and 15-year-old girls, right? They know that caring for people with disabilities and their families wipes their mouths only when the subject of abortion bans comes up. Meanwhile, care and support in this care is a serious and big topic. It cannot be moved when you seek excuses in panic for your foolish and thoughtless decisions. [[Applause]] We didn't make any decisions. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u30	Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u31	Legal abortion - now, without compromise. [[Applause]] Bravo! Now! Why? You're talking about eugenics. Let us listen to the words of Professor Dębski who is already dead about a child who was to be saved by another professor, Mr. Chazan: This is a child who has no half head, has a brain on top, has a hanging eyeball, has a split entire face. There's no brain inside and it's gonna die for the next month or two because it has a healthy heart and healthy lungs until it dies of some kind of infection. And you guys call abortion eugenics. Women are tortured, forced to have babies like this. This fund should be called the death chronicle fund. No money from your fund, no backup for anything from walking coffins that you're forcing a dead man to give birth to. The church is mixed up in politics, so don't be surprised she's in it. You say you can't be Catholic and support the right to terminate pregnancy, but you say you can be a Catholic priest and rape children. You can, as long as he confesses. You can also be a priest, have sex with your housekeeper and get absolution. That's something you can And then Cardinal Dziwisz will say he doesn't know anything, he hasn't heard anything, and no one has told him anything. But now the faithful are rebelling. Catholics and Catholics rebel against this atrocity, which you want to guarantee Polish women a sentence, so-called. the so-called judgment. The tribunal. Mental and physical abuse, i.e. violence, inducing powerful fear among all women of procreational age, increasing the number of suicides of pregnant young people, increasing emigration from Poland, deepening negative natural growth - that is what you want to do. You're gonna make women use that bent hanger that's gonna pierce their uterus. They're gonna bleed out and you're gonna have them on your conscience. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Mr. Marshal! I advise you to educate me... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sorry, Mr. Terletki's not here. Then I hope your marshal will hand it over to Mr. Terleck. It is a symbol of the Grey Private assault groups. Marshal Terlecki insulted Polish heroes, calling this symbol a Fascist symbol. Thank you very much, Member. Please, Your Marshal, hand over to the Marshal. He can learn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u32	Thank you. Please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u33	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not words, but actions testify to the credibility of politics. The measure of government is always the attitude towards the weakest and the most disabled. You, as the United Right, failed this exam. Today we have not heard any systemic solutions that have been carried out. You didn't do anything, but today you can do something. You may begin to be ashamed. This will at least be a substitute for the satisfaction you will give to people with disabilities who have been lying for many years. [[Applause]] For starters, I'm going to ask a very up-to-date question. The Minister did not mention a reform of the caselaw which is to take the right to maximum financial support for most disabled people and to restrict access to schools for children with disabilities. He said, so to speak, Minister Paweł Wdezik, who announced in the Senate a month ago that such a system is already complete. He publicly explained that there are too many special education decisions at present and that too many families are asking for support. The life program we are talking about today had a similar history. He sounded very well and was very interesting. Tonight, apart from a few clichés, the clichés weren't really anything concrete. I'm sorry, there's one specific amount left, which the Minister was talking about, namely 4,000. zł for giving birth to a child diagnosed prenatally. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately neither autism nor cerebral palsy nor many genetic diseases can be diagnosed prenatally. More examples. In the program you have written down that you will create sheltered housing and special homes for people with autism and disabilities, so-called. D-type houses. How many apartments and houses have you opened in the last few years? Zero. Reinforcement care programme, which was to be given to the caretaker of a disabled person to a significant extent. Why did you set such criteria and deadlines, including income criteria, that few people could actually benefit from this? Perhaps because it was to be financed with the so-called. the solidarity fund from which you drew and spent your money, allocating it for another legitimate purpose, but it was not for this purpose that the solidarity fund was set up. Thirdly, the programme in theory assumes state funding for rehabilitation equipment or rehabilitation tournaments. In practice, the PiS reduced support and subsidies for diapers, speech prosthetics or rehabilitation tours. Your approach to carers of children with disabilities is a shift in the treatment of the whole environment of people with disabilities: or you accept that for less than 2 000. zł you take care of your child without having the chance and opportunity to earn, or you go to work, but no relief, no support You're not entitled to a country. This is probably the only country in Europe where parents of disabled people are treated in this way. There was some real help. The last concrete aid that this Sejm approved was aid in 2014 for the government of PO-PSL, when Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz raised by 1,000. zł The amount of care provided and equalized it with the lowest salary. Since then, no specific aid has been presented by the government. I remember a year ago when we applied in this room to raise pensions, so-called. EWK. At that time, in 2019, the previous Minister - I do not know, perhaps you - said that there was no means for this. Then on the same day 1500 million PLN was allocated to government television. And that's a scandal. $2 billion for propaganda. I'll give you that: PR is really good. Propaganda is your strong suit. The very weak side, however, is concrete. Today we have not heard of any plans, nor any concrete successes. Therefore, we, as the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, will propose something, we have proposed and will continue to propose. First, the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the compensation of benefits for carers of persons with disabilities. Secondly, the provision of care at the lowest national level. Thirdly, the creation of 1 000. new round-the-clock care facilities for children with severe defects. Fourthly, a social pension of 2.5 thousand. zł. Fifthly, 100% funding hospice care. I am now addressing you, my friends and colleagues from PiS. Instead of ordering, prohibiting, punishing women and ordering them to report difficult pregnancies, I suggest another way out. Try to create an incentive and support system for women... Yes, sir. ...so they don't feel lonely at this worst and most difficult time. I've been pregnant twice, and I'm the mother of two wonderful children. I know what it's like to enjoy every day, but I also know what fear is every day and every minute about if everything's gonna be okay. Women who have this sentence and know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that their pregnancy is at risk and that the child will not be able to live outside the womb, are in a tragic situation. If you want to help them, don't ban them, don't order them, but help them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u34	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is Kamil. Kamil was born with a four-term cerebral palsy, born without an educated bronchi. After birth, asthma, hydrocephalus, abdominal hernia appeared. Kamil was rehabilitated and spent a total of six years of his life in hospitals. Doctors and parents fought for his health, for his fitness. Today he is not only a national activist, who appears on various actions - we can meet very often in Wielkopolska or elsewhere - he is also a programmer, he has a girlfriend, he is Poland's runner-up at the club. Yeah, he's got his passions. The whole lie of this propaganda, which is spread in Poland these days, mainly because of the Civic Coalition and the Left, is that you do not tell people that the vast majority of cases of eugenic abortion... There's no such thing as eugenic abortion. ...it's people like Kamil or people with Down syndrome. No, it's not. It's a lie. These grown-up people today see what you're saying, and just like Kamil, they say, "Don't we have the right to live?" Why are you trying to kill us? Why do you want to kill women? I speak for those people who today... Do you know that adults, adults with Down syndrome, read very often, listen to what you say? Mr Downe, this is not about children with Down's syndrome. It's about total admissibility of abortion, we know. And they know they're the biggest group that's ever been bartered, killed every year. Those are the facts. And now I'm going to move on to what's going on, ladies and gentlemen, in the country, what's going on here, in this Parliament hall. You're having a circus. The country is in chaos. The economy is collapsing. And you here, together with Mr. Kaczyński, who deliberately tells the police to act passively under the churches so that there is as much desecration as possible so that as many monuments can be desecrated... It's true. Why are you lying? Because what you are doing here in this House and on the streets today is at the hand of Jarosław Kaczyński. You've caused this crisis. It is Jarosław Kaczyński who ignites it - together with you, who let yourself be used as a puppet in this theatre - to cover today the crisis of the state, the chaos of the state and the economic crisis. Why are you lying like that? Why? You knew people were gonna protest. You shouldn't have signed your name. Children - under protection, mothers and parents - with state support and Jarosław Kaczyński - for resignation. Stay away from our children.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u36	You're welcome, Mr... Your marshal, your marshal... You have not been mentioned. Mr Jakub Kulesza... About the formal issue. There you go. Don't give it there... Don't hide behind the fog. Formal motion, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u37	Formal conclusion. Mrs. Marshal! I'm filing a formal motion to adjourn, convene the Seniors Convention... We'll vote right away. It's best for a week. ...in connection with the scandalous words that had just fallen, accusing Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński of what the barbarians were guilty of... Don't suck up. A nose mask. ...those who are attacking human life today. I would ask you, sir, that no more such lies come out of your mouth because they are outrageous and unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're the best expert in lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u38	Sorry, sir, this was not a formal proposal. You took advantage of that opportunity. There's not gonna be a break. We will continue the proceedings, please. And you have abused the form of the formal application very much. And please correct the mask, the expert on lies, among others. Smolensk. Please, Mr Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that we can talk about the cases of hundreds of women in these difficult, difficult situations, but I would also like us to talk about hundreds of thousands of families, women who are forced by the left - and the one on the left, and the one on the right - to use in pregnancy, childbirth from extremely inefficient, because the state, centrally controlled health services, from the health system. And it is in this health system that, because there are no mechanisms for changing standards from patients, there is only a political mechanism, and there are no adequate standards of perinatal care. Also the support that the Minister was talking about, about respite care, assistance from families with disabilities, this is fiction, this is a dead law. Talk to the families of people with disabilities. And precisely because it is only through political pressure that we are able to influence this inefficient system of health protection that we have set up, as men, a Parliamentary Group on Health. Occipital care. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is the laughter of women, of families. I personally invited the President of the Left Parliamentary Club to attend the Parliamentary Group meeting. Occipital care, which was devoted to the separation of mothers and children. None of the messengers who are laughing about it now have come. [[Applause]] We have our teams. And this team meeting led to the ministry's actions, which two days later came out and intervened directly in hospitals. That's the hypocrisy. And the list of abnormalities (the Bell) in perinatal care is gigantic. I didn't even get it started. I would also invite you very cordially to address these hundreds of thousands of examples... Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. ...breaking the standards of perinatal care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You were in kindergarten when I was doing it, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u40	Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u41	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Minister, you can go out on this stand as many times as you want and tell us what a fairy tale you can't make up. But don't expect us to enjoy it. They don't pay us to be loyal to their own. None of you, unfortunately, have brought us here a good fairy and no gummyberry juice, because no clichés about life and love will change the fact that the program does not function practically at all. Because you're not gonna read the truth from the paperwork. The truth is where you're afraid to look. The truth will be told by the mother of a child with Down's syndrome, who could only read the brochures prepared by your ministry about uninvited access to specialists. The truth will be told by a mother or a father who takes care of their severely ill and disabled child day and night, exhausted completely, because the resting care they have been asking for for for so many years is a total bang. The truth will be told to you by thousands of mothers, fathers and carers who, in order to make ends meet, must set up fundraisers for charity purposes or collect nuts from bottles or buy equipment through OLX, or unfortunately, this is a true relationship that we received in Poland 2050, collecting rehabilitation equipment after dumpsters. This life for these families is violence. The state under the PiS did not pass the custody exam. You talk about decency, responsibility, and, as Prime Minister Beata Szydło once said, about the great sense of the mission, and meanwhile you treat hundreds of thousands of families with people with disabilities as a necessary evil. These people don't deserve it, they have every right to live and grow, and women have every right not to be afraid to get pregnant in this country. And you have no right to choose for them. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u42	Thank you, Member. That's where we ended the club and the circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. Can I still do that? But, sir, in what mode? Your Marshal, may I ask you a few questions? You're welcome, of course you are. If any of you are willing, you're welcome. The first question will be asked by Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like you not to invoke the constitution today, because if we respected the constitution in our country, we would not be at the moment we are now. [[Applause]] There would be a Constitutional Tribunal, there would be a law that should apply. There's a Constitutional Court. There's a law. Politicians shouldn't say such things from the Parliamentary Speaker. You just created a pathological situation. And today in the report, the Minister's information was confusing and confusing, because we are talking about helping families, women, children, but it is necessary to distinguish between those women who are struggling with the drama of carrying a fetus that is permanently damaged, who will not be able to live alone and who will probably not survive the birth or die a few hours later. But we are also talking about women who raise children who will require support and care for the rest of their lives. And the minister was talking about what the government was doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, these families do it because they make sure that these children are safe. The government left the women alone. And women must have a choice, not a ban. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u44	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u45	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! We demand legal abortion without compromise. What you just presented to the Minister for Family Affairs is a fairy tale for children, for naive children, about the fact that we live in a beautiful country where people with disabilities are dignifiedly cared for by the state. Have you lost your touch with reality? Don't you remember that during your reigns, families with people with disabilities stayed here for 40 days, that Marshal Kuchciński wouldn't let them into the toilet? Hello, this is Earth. Return to Earth and really take care of what needs to be done by people with disabilities, without ideology, without compromising dignity, and above all, by caring for the rights, life (the Bell) and the health of women. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u46	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u47	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Minister, with experience in this kind of water supply, has told us for a long time about the so-called. comprehensive support programme for families of children with disabilities born with serious health defects, Mon. For life, the foundation of which is a one-off benefit - 4,000. Can you hear the minister? 4,000. zł. Is the Minister aware of the cost of a specialist, modern wheelchair? Have you ever checked the price of a rehabilitation bed, not to mention the hygiene and medications that are necessary for everyday functioning? Secondly, the case of the tribunal's judgment. This is the context we're discussing. Isn't it better to give the Poles and Poles the decision in the form of a referendum instead of denying them the right to choose? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because those protesters don't want an abortion today. They want, in particular women, to have the right to decide about their lives, the right to choose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you. Namely, as you know, the 500+ program did not produce any results. But wouldn't you consider paying family doctors to have a baby in the family they're looking after, a sum higher than the doctor gets for having an illegal abortion in Poland? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u51	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, many sentences came from this place, many words in which the left side praised the protest of women, praised the fact that we were at war or calling for war. But the Seym Council is also a good place to thank and commend. Well, in many places on the Internet, photographs have now appeared, on which young Polish fathers, supporters... There's no such word - the kikibites. Ha, ha, ha! ...kids who participate in actions of defending Polish temples, show their children, also disabled. Today I wanted to thank you very much from this place. [[Applause]] for being afraid of defending Polish values, defending Polish temples. This is truly admirable, commendable. I think that on behalf of many Members of the Law and Justice, but not only do I express my admiration and hope that you will continue to do (the bell) as you have done so far. Polish, Catholic, Christian values must be defended. God bless you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u52	Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kaczyński! You're only strong when you can cover yourself up. Today, you've hidden yourself from the Marshal's Guard, you've hidden yourself from the party colleagues before, you've hidden yourself from public television, the police on the street, the Constitutional Tribunal. But I want to tell you one thing: the measure has changed. [[Applause]] It's not just women who see it. Farmers, fans, entrepreneurs, young people and older people can see it in Poland, on the streets of small and large cities, on the streets of Warsaw, on the streets of Końskie, on the streets of Rzeszów - people see who is responsible for this situation all over the city. Minister! Do you think you can bribe women with a single witness? There is no price, there is no money that you can buy the dignity of women who could force the Polish people to suffer. [[Applause]] There's no money like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want a choice, not a ban. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And above all, Poles fighting in the streets of cities, towns and villages! We're with you anyway. As you demand legal abortion without compromise. There's no way out... of our constituents. And today you are hiding behind the facade of the Constitutional Tribunal. You have a mouth full of constitutions. You're wiping your mouths off people with disabilities. Meanwhile, people with disabilities and their carers have been waiting for justice for six years. For the past six years, you have failed to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment on equalisation of benefits to carers of disabled persons. For the past six years, these people have to live for PLN 620 a month. 620 zlotys a month is less than Marshal Terlecki who is absent here earns a day. That's disgusting. How embarrassing are you? No, you're not for life. You're for suffering, you're for harm, you're for humiliation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate was to be in the mind of the United Right, an attempt to divert attention from the hell that PiS had prepared for women, the hell that he had prepared for women, giving an order that pseudotribul Przyłębska should give in the middle of a pandemic a scandalous sentence in practice completely prohibiting abortion in Poland. PiS wanted to use this moment in the name of the doctrine of shock to completely deprive the Polish people of their right to decide about their life, about their body. You wanted to take another part of their freedom from the young Poles, but you fell victim to your own actions. Nobody really cares what the Minister has to say tonight. Nobody cares about the bullshit you're gonna push through your propaganda tube of PiS TV. People are sick of you, which has been expressing for 6 days on the streets of Polish cities and towns. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Do you think that your speech today, at least to the slightest extent, will calm the mood on the street? I don't. Women's protest will continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u58	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We demand legal abortion without compromise. The Lifetime Programme is not a Lifetime Programme. He's full of cynicism and hypocrisy. Women in Poland, mostly women, stay with disabled children alone. Unfortunately, partners, husbands most often leave women in this situation. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister when the welfare allowance for mothers and fathers taking care of disabled children will be granted - it is children over 8 years of age - who do not go to school because classes above IV are in remote education. The welfare allowance was only valid until September 20th. When will this be done? You say beautiful words here, but you can't change the regulation so that parents can take care of disabled children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're staying home today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u60	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are situations where you have to leave your mothers' consciences, your parents' choices. You cannot force heroism - Sister Margaret Chmielewska. The compromise reached must not be violated, I repeat, it must not be violated - sleep. Lech Kaczyński. Now I ask you, as a Catholic mother, who gave you the right to enter into human consciences? How embarrassing are you? Thousands of women, mothers, Catholics, who have their faith and their worldview, go out on the streets of Polish cities and towns, but they know that they can't impose it on others, they can't force anyone to be heroic. I ask you today: what happened to you, the Catholic state of PiS, that you have for nothing the words of a woman, a great hero, a sister of Margaret? Finally, what happened to you that Lech Kaczyński, whose memory [[♪ The bell ♪]] You wipe your mouth so often, suddenly he's no longer your authority? What happened? That's why choice is so important, not a ban. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u62	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have over 16,000. Congestion, epidemic. The cowardly arsonist Jarosław Kaczyński with the help of the Constitutional Tribunal sets Poland on fire. Each day it provokes further action, e.g. by putting the idea on the spokesperson or, in fact, the butcher of the civil rights of Wróblewski. It's a special provocation, but we can't treat women's rights as a substitute. It's an idea for family tragedy, for women's tragedy. Coffin-bear, baptize, bury-- that's how you treat women. Even the Catholic Church is more humane because its leaders say that no one can be forced into heroism. Women must have a right to choose, not a ban. I'd like to say hello to the pissants, a little differently: move away quickly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u64	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I beg you, Your Marshal, to respond to such situations. Sit down. Don't lecture your marshal. Calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u65	He set his emotions on fire in the middle of a pandemic. He's done the pseudo-Constitution Tribune... Your time is long gone. ...and he thinks he's tightened the screw, but it's not a screw, it's a spring that can't hold any longer. This is the beginning of our common anger. Shut up. He already knows he's declared a war he can't win. He's already run off today. Because all he can do is kiss a woman in the same hand when she twists the other one in the shoulder. [[Applause]] Young people saw it and protested from Lądek through Kłodzko, Dzierżoniów, Warsaw to Pomerania and in the east. They protest because they do not agree that cruelty ends where the borders of Poland are. We want rights and freedoms. We want empathy and support. We want to decide our lives. Kaczyński knew we wouldn't give up our rights with a fight. He knew we were gonna go protest. He knew that to cruelty, to coerce heroism, to enter our lives with boots would not be our agreement that there would be a reaction, there would be a protest. Nothing's gonna stop us now. We want a choice (the bell), not a ban. But 25 million doesn't protest.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u66	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to encourage you very much to help people with disabilities after 18 years of age in a real way. At the initiative of me and the Civic Coalition a project was created, which moved on to the first reading, which eliminates the criterion for providing a supplemental 500 PLN. Today, as the only group in Poland, people with disabilities who are incapable of independent existence receive this assistance with a criterion. Disgraceful? Disgraceful. Minister, I have a second question. The first question is, when are you gonna lift the criterion and are you gonna do it, or are you gonna help? When you execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which you have in fact challenged and won, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and it concerns adult care, that is, adult carers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u68	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u69	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Sitting here opposite me, Janusz Korwin-Mikke once became famous for saying that such a child should be born, sold, preferably in the open market. And you want to prove to us today that in Poland the life of a child can be bought. Last time, you valued the suffering of women, people with disabilities at 4,000. zł, today you want to raise the stakes. We remember protesting here, in this Seym, people with disabilities. We remember Mr Zalek talking about their parents: degenerates. We remember how Mrs Krynick - I wonder why she is not here today - I think the voters have verified her - turned to the disabled with her back. Marshal Terlecki said you didn't have a heart to keep the disabled in the Seym. You don't have the heart, you're not here today, in the courtroom, when we're discussing this pseudoprogram of yours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're trying to force women to get pregnant by the decision of a pseudo-tribulation. You're hiding behind the tribunal because you don't have the guts to stand up. across from us. Thank you very much. We're on the streets fighting for our rights. Thank you very much, Member. Women's rights are human rights. Thank you very much. You convict entire families, you take away our choice. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. And the point of your program... Mrs... ...it's that once you give me help and forget about the existence of people with disabilities. Thank you very much, Member. We want a choice, not a ban. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u70	I'd like to ask you very much to comply with your time. I always let you finish, but it's just a few seconds. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u71	Ma'am! I just wanted to ask if it was better to kill the baby or sell it to the family that wants it. But I have a short compromise for you. Ladies, you're fighting for women's rights. Here's my offer: you're not allowed to kill girls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u72	I'm very sorry, sir, but you took advantage of... Scandal! I won't give you that voice again. You're welcome, Mrs Rosa. Sometimes it's better not to talk. Silence is gold. I don't know why you're surprised now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u73	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! What my previous speaker said was so stupid that it's too bad to comment. On the other hand, I will make it clear to you on the right: you will not take away the dignity of women or the voice. You will not take the floor of Claudia Jachira, wrongly excluded because you are afraid that she is telling you the truth. You are afraid of thousands of voices on the streets of Polish cities, which tell you the truth, that you want to take away our freedom of choice and decision. I have questions from mothers of children with disabilities: Nela is 3 years old. Her mother Eve asks: How do I survive for PLN 1830 a month with a child who has a complex disability? How to pay for media, life, rehabilitation? Special cart - 7,000, orthesis - 3,000, 70,000. In the last two years, they collected PLN for rehabilitation because the state isn't helping. Patricia is 34 years old. Her mom Ola asks, "When is the rest?" Who was interested in her when she was locked up at home with her kid at the lockdown? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, No. No one was interested in her. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mariola's 24 years old. Her mom's asking, "Extinction, assistants?" It doesn't work. The lines to the doctors, the way they were, they are. Rehabilitation? There isn't. Thank you very much. And that's what we'll always shout out to you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u74	Thank you very much, Member. With a formal proposal from Mr Piotr Boris. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u75	Thank you very much. Minister! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a formal request so that, however, it would be possible to allow disabled people who have been waiting for you to listen to them all morning. You don't want to listen to people with disabilities. Those who are 18 years of age are actually deprived of any help. No resting leave... Waiting for rehabilitation tours, which cost 7,000, takes over a year. Minister! One of Głogów's residents buried her 27-year-old son, who was disabled. She devoted her whole life to him. She's 2 years old for retirement, she can't get her pension because she's not eligible for full care. Help everyone, don't practice politics. Let those people who are waiting in the wheelchairs at the Sejm, in 45 minutes they will have a conference so they can take the floor and tell them that your help is insufficient, it's holes, it's selective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is political aid, not... Thank you very much. ...real aid. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u76	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, this is not a formal proposal for today's proceedings. The questions will be answered by the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Ms Magdalena Maląg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u77	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, cynicism and selfishness are what came from what you said here. You cannot agree with what has been presented, and in concrete terms with regard to the Life Act introduced by the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right, and implement it through the programme implemented by that Law. Support from the Solidarity Fund is real, provided to people with disabilities. Specific figures and concrete actions tell us what the Law and Justice Government has done. And I would like to refer here to one of the statements in which the subject of care benefits or care provision was raised. Ladies and gentlemen, care allowance: 2015 - 153 zł, today - 215, more than 215... So what? ...care experience: 2015 - 1200, today - 1830. Wow. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the facts and the reality. This is a summary of all expenditures in support of people with disabilities. What we are talking about is 15 billion in 2015 and 27 billion today, in 2020 is real money being transferred. We continue to work to make this support even wider, so that families with children with disabilities can live well with adults with disabilities. But in order for them to live properly, they must have the right to live. [[Applause]] And you have no right to decide that an unborn child... It's a woman's call. You have no right... A woman has a right. ...decide if the baby is born. This country has no right. It's a natural law, and we have no right to decide, to make decisions about killing. We have no right to kill. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of choice depends on an inalienable... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We're not incubators. ...constitutional [[♪ The bell ♪]] the right to dignity. You have to be able to live so you can choose later. We have no right to kill. [[Applause]] Every woman decides...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u78	The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 643 and 676). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u79	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws contained in print No 676. On 15 October this year, the Public Finance Commission examined this draft Print Act No 643. Members of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice and the PO-KO Club have tabled amendments to this project. The Public Finance Commission voted in favour of two proposals submitted by the Law and Justice Club. The remaining conclusions were not supported. Member Mirosław Suchoń has submitted a minority request to the report. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the draft law and amendments, proposes that the High Chamber adopt a draft law contained in the print report No 676. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u80	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws, print No. 643. As I said at the first reading of this bill, the aim of the amendment is to implement a pro-investment tax system based on Estonian solutions. Similar solutions were planned to be introduced at the time of the government of PO-PSL in 2013. The taxation of limited partnership companies was then justified by the fuller introduction of the principle of tax justice, the fight against tax inequalities and action to ensure equal competition in the market and the coherence of the tax system and the fight against tax optimisation. These arguments are also valid today and it is worth recalling the current opposition of the PO-KO and in 2013 the ruling Civic Platform. The inclusion of CIT of limited companies is part of the tax sealing package. This is a step recommended by the OECD. It was made in 12 countries of the European Union - e.g. Belgium, Spain, or in our region - Lithuania, Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania. High Seym! In Poland there are about 40 thousand. limited companies of which up to 80% it may be subject to taxation in this way. He's losing it. 180,000. actively active in Poland, paying CIT tax honestly to companies from o.o., especially... That's not the point. Excuse me. Your marshal, that's not the point. They're at the next point. Estonian CIT now. This is Estonian CIT, Mr Estonian CIT now. They're at the next point. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Now it's a CIT tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u82	Thank you so much for keeping an eye on... What does it matter? On this subject, Mr... Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga. Thank you for paying attention. Ha, ha, ha! That's good. That's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal, I want to make sure that we are at print number 643, because I think you were talking about something else. [[Applause]] Bravo! However, High Sejm, it is difficult in this atmosphere, which is here, in the Sejm, and here, in the streets, to talk about taxes today, but somehow you have to rise above this atmosphere and join another work. At first reading, we talked about Estonian CIT: from a large cloud small rain. There were high hopes, high hopes of entrepreneurs in case of announcements that there would be simple and common rules for Polish entrepreneurs, and at the end we have very complex and very exclusive solutions that will include, here we are wondering, here we are counting, certainly not a penny, but a small number of Polish entrepreneurs. Besides, the finance minister himself said it was piloting. If we're talking about piloting, then let's not let our eyes think we're making some serious changes. Estonian CIT, but Polish regulatory hell. These parties, these dozens of pages of legislation, these dozens of pages of explanations, will certainly not result in the Polish tax system being simple, transparent and clear, that businesses will be easier to fill in all tax returns, to deal with taxes, that for this reason we will be promoted in different rankings. We are introducing completely new solutions alongside those that are. We're probably gonna watch if these entrepreneurs want to use it or if they want to see some benefit for themselves, go through that thicket of recipes we're cooking for them. Minister! High Seym! The Civic Platform will report six amendments at second reading. We want to reduce the flat rate to 10% respectively And 20%. If this is going to be good for entrepreneurs, let it really be good, let it really be cheaper, let it really be attractive. We also want to allow command and commando-action companies to benefit from this. In the next item, the Sejm will proceed with CIT in the case of limited partnership companies. If we put this kind of tribute on them, let them deal with the Estonian solutions, in quotes, I keep saying, CIT. We also want to make the income criteria real, adjust them to reality when the tax year is different from the calendar year. I would remind you that this tax year may last 23 months in special cases. We want to remove VAT revenue from the limit, which discriminates between activities taxed with 23 percent VAT on activities taxed with 8% tax. We want to extend the scope of possible investments to land, buildings, buildings or water and land engineering facilities. It's completely incomprehensible why the government forbids it. Small companies also invest in land, also invest in buildings, also invest in buildings that they need to do business. Why rule them out? Why prevent them from doing so? We also want to enable companies to settle losses from past years. We will make these amendments. At first reading, we asked the government to reflect, so that the government itself would try to simplify these rules so that they would become very common, because apart from the fact that we are limiting this Estonian CIT to a few economic operators, there are 15 points on the Minister of Finance's website that will have to be met before it can be said that someone is eligible for Estonian CIT. Why force entrepreneurs to hire people if they don't want to hire them? Why force people to invest if they do not need these investments at a given time or direct them to certain activities? Why do all this? I think it's just so that the government, the minister, has power over what's going on to complicate things so that it's not easy for entrepreneurs to do business. In the end, we will support this bill, but we will really have to look at it very closely. I think that in the course of this, we will continue to try to make amendments in order to improve, simplify and disseminate this tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u85	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! We demand legal abortion without compromises and without restrictions. I'm sorry about the voice I lost at the demonstrations. I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws, print No. 643. The so-called Estonian version of corporate tax is a good solution, which reduces tax levels, which encourages Polish companies to invest. As pointed out by Estonian experience, but also by many other countries, these solutions are pro-investmental in nature and contribute to the growth of equity capital of enterprises, improving their liquidity, credit capacity and productivity, and thus will positively affect the growth and competitiveness of the Polish economy. It is also a step, or perhaps rather a small step towards simplifying the complex tax system in Poland. However, it must be pointed out that the proposed solutions also have disadvantages. There's still time to fix this. The lack of consideration is that this solution was proposed only for limited liability companies and public limited liability companies, and there is a lack of cooperatives. Cooperatives are an important form of entrepreneurship in Poland. They include e.g. agricultural production, labour, machinery rings or housing cooperatives. Why do we think this is a certain oversight? Because cooperatives are also a sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and, according to the government's assurances, they are addressed by this law. They also belong to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Cooperatives are entities that meet the principles of the bill designer. A simple equity structure whose shareholders, shareholders or members are natural persons who do not have shares or shares in other entities - that is a condition fulfilled. The same way of taxation in the classic CIT system - this is also fulfilled. The obligation to conduct the so-called full accounting, which is necessary to verify the regularity of tax accounts - this is also fulfilled. Restrictions on the ownership structure of capital links - this is also met. Therefore, all the assumptions of this law are also fulfilled by cooperatives. There is therefore no substantive reason for cooperatives not to be included in the proposed solutions. Probably the government, when preparing the bill, modelled on Estonian law, where cooperatives operate on the basis of the same law as capital companies, while in Poland it is a separate law. Now, at second reading, there's time to correct this mistake, which is why I'm making appropriate amendments to include cooperatives in the bill. The second problem I want to draw attention to is the reduction in tax revenue for local governments. According to the impact assessment of the regulation, the expected reduction in revenue in 2021-2022 will be about PLN 1.3 billion and in 2023 - PLN 0.7 billion. This is a lot, especially since local governments are already in a very difficult financial situation because of the pandemic, but also because of the increase in expenditure on education and health protection. Unfortunately, the new responsibilities imposed by the government do not result in an increase in subsidies from the budget. Therefore, the Left makes an amendment to compensate the local governments for the reduced revenue resulting from this law. I am counting on all parliamentary clubs to support our amendments. Many times Prime Minister Morawiecki called for opposition to a substantive discussion, which we also do, not only today but always. I ask Members to support our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u86	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to draw attention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to the three fundamental shortcomings which we believe this project, despite being worked by the committee, still includes, without breaking it down, thinking that these are solutions which today, in this difficult situation of the economic crisis that is going through Poland, should be introduced. Our first comments are arguments directly brought from entrepreneurs. That is the charge of being too narrowly treated by those eligible for it. Only the smallest entrepreneurs will be eligible for this solution. There is no possibility of subsidiaries and restrictions on reorganization activities. Only natural persons can be partners. There is no possibility to benefit from R &amp; D relief and income relief. The high level of complexity of the rules presented in the project for many entrepreneurs will be a disincentive to the choice of this solution. Our second reservation - was mentioned by the previous speakers - is that a very important segment of our economic space, which is still co-operatives, cooperatives, does not qualify to be able to find themselves within the scope of this law. And it is a pity, because, as I said, entrepreneurs are a very important pillar of our economy - and various areas that function in this form. The third reservation, no less important, which I would like to point out on behalf of the Polish Coalition, is a negative look at this project by the local government. In the appropriate position, the Joint Committee of the Government and the Local Government shall declare these reservations. Namely, the law leads to the depletion of the income of local governments, while without providing compensation for losses in income, especially severe for voivodships, for voivodships. Over the next 3 years these effects on local governments, are estimated to cause losses around PLN 4 billion in total. The voivodship authorities will lose the most because it is the proceeds from CIT tax that are the main element of the voivodship's own income. In 2019 the revenue of the regional governments for participation in CIT amounted to 37.5% all their income. It is not difficult to predict the impact this might have on regional governments: the lack of resources to cover the negative financial result of the SPOZs, the need to reduce the transport offer within the framework of passenger transport, the underestimated costs of education reform and the reduction of all other areas for which the voivodship authorities are responsible. It's definitely gonna take some work, and our club's gonna get involved in trying to eliminate these flaws. Of course, it takes a majority of the parliament to do so, but we encourage you not to avoid such an open approach to this law, because, as I said at the outset, today's economic crisis, which we are entering, requires [[♪ The bell ♪]] Brave solutions, and such a solution would be to extend this law to further entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u89	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll tell you the first thing I'm curious about. The Law and Justice sector, discussion on the so-called Estonian CIT, when it comes to Members present in the Chamber, I see one. Thank you, respect, sir, just one. Rapporteur. The rapporteur? It's not even an envoy? Rapporteur. Rapporteur. It's gotta be. Good. Well, that's the kind of thing that's exciting, not the kind of stuff we do around here. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice are introducing something at this point that has called the marketing of Estonian CIT, but unfortunately with this Estonian CIT it is so on average. Here we have heard the previous statements, more or less it was all described, but let's repeat it quickly. Innovation is being introduced - innovation that has been operating in Estonia for 20 years and has been living there peacefully, and our glazeers, neither those present in the last 5 years nor the previous 8 years, have been willing to take care of it. Very simple thing: until the company pays dividends, it does not pay income tax. A really easy solution. They there in Estonia have a tax system that allows them to spend 10 times less time than Poles in accounting. And now why isn't this tax, this Estonian CIT thing really Estonian CIT? First of all, we've got a lot of different sharpenings, add-ons, ideas that make no one benefit, and that's what I'm going to want to point out, but let's replace it. Such a company must have at least three employees, there must be adequate income limits, companies must not have other shares, other companies, shareholders must not be companies, forced investment expenditure. So you're ruling out completely large companies because they're gonna be able to handle it, and you're gonna rule it out, and you're actually gonna throw the smallest companies into it, the smallest ones, which are gonna be very few. Then you're gonna brag about bringing in Estonian CIT. Just as you brag about the fact that you have reduced income tax, then when you have, by the way, increased the lowest national average, which caused the national average to increase, which caused the compulsory Social Security Office to increase, and in fact, this reduction in income tax did not actually lead to anything. For those who conduct single-person business activities, such a reduction in fact led to an increase in tax burden with the Social Security Office. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to help, if you really want to help, maybe you should take into account all the comments that have been here, our amendments which would lead to the fact that it would indeed be Estonian CIT, but such a real Estonian CIT, this Estonian CIT, not this PiS-owski CIT. Then we could think about it, then we could support it, because Estonian CIT, the real one, is a very good solution. The only problem is, when the PiS gets into something, it ends up like this every time. And the question is, how long is it possible to live like this, because today we're going to be talking about other topics, things that you're going to want to screw the screw even more. This is where you want to help. But if you're gonna help, well, damn it, help, and don't make it so nobody's gonna take advantage of it. So that we are waiting for these corrections. We hope it will come to them. We hope all the time, until the last vote took place, that Estonian CIT would be Estonian, and if PiS-owski were to remain, the Confederation would not support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. There isn't. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u91	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I hope these gentlemen aren't here because they're at the protest that's under the Seym. CIT is of course an important issue, but I will talk about something else - what is now most important about what the Polish street lives on. Polish women demand, Polish society demands the right to abortion. The Polish right doesn't care, because for the Polish right Sejm or the tribunal of justice it is the same as the episcopate, and the Sejm's deliberations are the same as the party at Rydzyk's. Even if you vote that every year will be the year of John Paul II, if you hang everything with crosses, how Czarnek will tell you that there will be 10 hours of catechesis in school, and Kurski will spend billions more on lansing Jędraszewski and others like him, it will not help you. The law in Poland cannot be established according to Catholic doctrine, because the law in Poland must be secular. Thank you very much, Member. It's a woman who decides... Thank you very much. ...and new speech: a child conceived - nothing will work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. I'm just reminding you that this is a point about CIT. If there are limits, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u93	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The Left Club demands abortion without restrictions, without compromises. Turning to the CIT tax, I simply wanted to ask the question: How does the government plan to supplement local governments with income lost due to this change, mainly to regional governments? Is there a planned amendment to the Local Government Income Act? If so, what is it? And if otherwise, how is it planned to supplement the losses of this change, this income law mainly of voivodships? The reduction of these revenues means a clear reduction or elimination of many programmes, including for women, families, children with disabilities, for whom there will be no funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u94	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We read in the explanatory memorandum that the bill is addressed to entrepreneurs who, due to a weaker competitive position, have less opportunities to obtain external financing. They lack the cash to make the investments. I ask: Are not cooperatives, including housing cooperatives, in this situation? Of course they are. They have a weaker competitive position and should be helped. I very much regret that the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance has failed to convince the government that housing cooperatives - and in general cooperatives - should be covered by this law. I ask the government: Why? Please change your position. There's still time. Please consider the cooperative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last but not least, we want a choice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u96	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, every decent guy stands with women today, and we stand with women too. And we're gonna stand here because that's the role of a real man today. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we are also talking in Parliament today about other important things, companies, the Estonian tax solution. The question to the Minister: Why are you narrowing it down so much - only to capital companies? If this is a solution that is supposed to start the economy, which is supposed to give fresh breath, fresh breath to companies, then why are you limiting it so much - in fact, to a very small group - the possibility of taking advantage of this solution? After all, Estonia's success is that this solution - this Estonian tax - has been widely applied. You shut down cooperatives, you shut down businesses, you shut down small Polish companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you condemning them to pay ever higher taxes, and this is how you narrow down the group that can benefit from this good solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u98	Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Already in the previous sitting and now many times it sounds that you call Estonian CIT something that Estonian CIT is not. I did not get the answer to the question why you want to exclude so many companies from this solution, why you set the revenue not more than 100 million, why the shareholders cannot be other companies, why you introduce a lack of possibility to own shares in other companies - this is a common case - why you have to invest so much in fixed assets. This also precludes the possibility for training companies, translation agencies or accounting companies to benefit from this. Why are you making it necessary to freeze profits, especially at this difficult time when the liquidity of many companies is at risk? Did you count that the trader will have to pay a de facto interest of 24% at the end? after 3 years, if he fails to meet any of these conditions? Who's gonna risk it? Finally, I want to get an answer today to the question of how many entrepreneurs with these regulations are de facto excluded from this solution. I haven't seen that answer lately either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u100	Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, When preparing this bill, you were also conducting a public consultation. The joint government and self-government committee has negatively assessed this project. On the basis of the justification of the draft law, as regards the financial consequences, local authorities will lose over PLN 3.2 billion from their own income between 2021 and 2023. This is the basic question: Is a government partner in public tasks? After all, the State, by reducing these revenues for local government units, is limiting their development, because these measures are often an important component in terms of own resources for European investments, the maintenance of hospitals, the expansion of roads and social policy. In view of the above: How will the government compensate (the bell) for the loss of these funds to local government units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u103	Marshal Wojciech Saluga. Oh, Jesus. Excuse me. There's nothing to apologize for. It doesn't matter. You know it, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And the entrepreneur asked me, "How much is this CIT going to be?" To illustrate the level of complications, in Estonia - 20, in Poland - 25, but when you're small, 20, if you invest so much, 15, and if you're big... And in 10 minutes, but you still have to pay PIT, depending on something - 25 or 30. This is what it looks like, it's a Polish example: when we enter the country, there's a board on the road that shows what speed limits are. And so we complicate it so that entrepreneurs don't understand how much it really amounts, what they have to do to... and what kind of tax they're going to pay. These are ordinary, simple people who (the bell) run a business, and we complicate it so much that they are unable to understand it or drive it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u104	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u105	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Well, it's not the first time we've dealt with a bill that reduces the revenue of local governments. And once again, it can already be accepted as a certain manner, it is completely forgotten to somehow compensate for these lost revenues to local governments. I wanted to ask if there was any reflection on this occasion, which would also result from the voices of the local authorities' community regarding previous draft laws, aimed at meeting these demands. While the financial situation of local governments 2 or 4 years ago allowed them to be reduced in budgets, Minister, today local governments are on the brink of financial efficiency, especially in the face of the crisis, including health and economic. That's why I'm asking if this compensation is planned. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u106	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u107	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government. Is the so-called introduced by you. Estonian CIT is a fatamorgan? Is there a real solution? Why is the pilot you're introducing so narrow? What are you afraid of? That they're gonna dwindle the state budget? Then it's a simulation of help. But I understand that you want to see how this can work in Poland, so the basic question is: Do you plan to extend it to other actors in the second step? E.g. about the co-operatives, about the limited companies, and whether the state has calculations or agrees with the calculations of the association of voivodships concerning the extent to which the income of voivodship local governments is reduced. And do you have such calculations broken down by voivodship? I am particularly interested in the Łódź region. Thank you in advance for your answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u108	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the last debate, when we were dealing with Estonian CIT, you said with distancing sincerity that such a social responsibility for the possible investments that entrepreneurs will make... I was just then asking about compensation for local governments. If not directly compensation, it can increase the shares in CIT just for local governments. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if this money is less in the voivodship budgets, then something will have to be cut. Just a question of what. There were cited examples of railways, services, perhaps cultural offers. Ladies and gentlemen, local governments also have walls. And these walls are getting closer, very close. Minister, would you like to make up for this, perhaps, limited companies, and what should the local governments say? Please, once again, about the (Bingle) reflection on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u110	Thank you very much. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Are there few Estonia-specific solutions in our proposal? No, it's not. The whole regulation is modelled on 1:1 solutions that operate in Estonia. Companies that enter this system, instead of 278 pages of CIT regulations, will have to use only 20 pages of regulations describing Estonian CIT, with 15 of them describing entry and exit rules, and 5 and 5 middle ones - those to which companies, while in Estonian CIT - 4 years, 8, 12 years, and even more - will apply on a daily basis. And this is the most simplified solution that will allow the annual settlement time of CIT to be less than 59 hours for smaller companies, as it is now, only 5. Is this a particularly exclusive solution? No. Already now, following the changes made in the public consultation process and as a result of the work of the Sejm Committee, with only a slight change in the employment structure and organizational structure of the company, the Estonian CIT will benefit from 200,000. companies, i.e. more than 90% actively active in Poland CIT-people. Moreover, due to the change in entry criteria, the investment criterion will not only apply to investments in fixed assets but also to investments in human capital, i.e. the employment of additional workers, this system will be open. It will be open not only to the manufacturing sector, to industrial activities or to the food industry, but also to service activities. As one of the Members rightly pointed out, companies that specialize in IT services, security companies, accounting companies or the training industry will also be able to benefit from it. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Is this regulation difficult? Indeed, we have a catalogue of conditions that companies have to meet in order to enter the Estonian system, while these are intuitive conditions, conditions that even from memory are able to check accountants operating for a limited liability company, even for the smallest one. What do these solutions guarantee? First of all, precision - support will go to exactly those companies for which it is intended, i.e. smaller companies, which are most struggling with the problem of lack of access to debt financing and in the investment process are constantly colliding with the glass ceiling, which does not allow them to develop to the extent of their potential. Second, safety. These are tax optimization solutions, often internationally, which do not allow large companies to use them. What about the cooperatives? Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently dealing with a pilot of the Estonian system, which will be extended from year to year. Next year we want to start talks with the cooperative industry and adapt the rules on Estonian CIT so that it can also be covered. This process cannot be carried out by submitting a parliamentary amendment, because it requires very precise regulation, which also needs to be developed with the industry. Unfortunately, it is not possible to do this quickly at this stage of the legislative process. However, we are planning to do so and we want to do so at the next stage of expanding the system. As far as local governments are concerned, I would like to remind you that we are jointly responsible for the state of the Polish economy and Polish companies. The source of tax revenue, the source of additional... Accept our amendments... Of course. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, Estonian CIT will cost PLN 5.6 billion next year. 4.3 billion will be covered by the state budget, 1.3 They're gonna lose the local government units. They're not gonna make it up to each other. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an investment in the Polish economy, in the good condition of Polish companies from the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. In this way - giving them investment opportunities and protecting their liquidity - we help them stay on the market and protect the proceeds that we will receive next year and next years. As with the fall in tax revenue, both the state budget and the local governments are also benefiting from growth. I would like to remind you that between 2015 and 2019 the revenue from PIT and CIT - also thanks to the sealing and reform of the National Tax Administration - increased in the case of local government units by as much as PLN 22 billion. During the COVID period a 14% decrease in CIT revenues was expected this year from PIT by 11% in the months from January to August. We haven't dealt with this inheritance. After all, the effects of the COVID are yet to come. The influence of local governments on CIT increased by 1%, with PIT decreased by 6%. So that at this stage there are no plans to correct the receipts of local government units (the bell) resulting from the implementation of Estonian CIT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u112	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws (prints No 642 and No 675). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. Only that you present a good report. You've already mentioned that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the examination of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws, print No 675. On 15 October this year, the Public Finance Commission examined this draft Print Act No 642. Member Mirosław Suchoń filed a motion to reject the bill. The Commission voted against this proposal. A request for a public hearing was also submitted. The Commission has given a negative opinion on this proposal. Members of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club have tabled an amendment concerning the amendment to the title of the law by adding a debriefed description of the bill. The Commission has given a negative opinion on this change. In addition, the committee considered 26 amendments. The committee adopted six amendments tabled by the club Law and Justice and 20 amendments tabled by the members of the opposition clubs were negative. Something like that. As part of my cooperation. These amendments were tabled as minority proposals. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this draft resolution, requests the adoption of a draft law from print no. 675. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You don't have an MP? Remotely. Remotely. We're waiting for a call. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u115	Am I on the air yet? Hello? You're welcome. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft Print Act No. 642 and 675. The bill is another step, alongside Estonian CIT, towards a simple and friendly tax system that will support companies during the economic downturn. The extension of flat-rate registered revenues will improve the condition of single-member activities, civil and public companies, while limited companies, limited companies, limited companies and others will benefit from services with an increased limit, the application of a 9% CIT rate. The Act also contains solutions limiting unfair competition of small and medium-sized enterprises from larger companies, those that avoid taxation. Thanks to these solutions, as well as Estonian CIT, about PLN 7 billion will remain in taxpayers' pockets next year. About 400,000 will benefit from these changes next year. companies, small businesses, family businesses for which these regulations are dedicated. They reduce their taxation and protect against competition from companies that use the so-called. tax optimisation, which escape taxation in Poland and bring income abroad to tax havens. And that's the main objective of the project. Thanks to the seals in the last 5 years, our government has been able to implement both ambitious social plans and lower taxation, but to reduce taxation where necessary, i.e. to smaller taxpayers, family businesses. Hence such solutions as in this Act - whether Estonian CIT or expected other tax incentives for entrepreneurs. Sealing is not a one-off but a continuous process. It is a difficult job, both for the government and for us, for Members, and for entrepreneurs who ask for strong action against unfair competition and point to gaps and injustice in the law. Of course, the big voice is more audible, but is that the only reason to listen? And the limited companies, of which every fifth earns revenues above PLN 10 million, are to be treated preferentially? No. We try to make the tax system fair and tight. The most important element of sealing is the inclusion of CIT of limited companies, for two reasons. One of them is aggressive tax optimisation. Commanders are a very convenient tool in international tax avoidance structures. The opposition is screaming that there are a small number of commando companies, and in this respect it is correct. But what are these companies, and what damage do they do? These are often even hundreds of millions of zlotys transferred abroad without tax by one company. Therefore, it is not surprising that the revenues of these companies are almost three times higher on average and their tax profitability is lower. And I know what I'm saying. I'm an expert auditor, and I've been working with the tax authorities for many years. I can see that. Another important point is that in recent years very often limited liability companies, in order to escape the payment of CIT, acted under the banner of a limited limited partnership, which really was camouflage (the distortion of acceptance) entrepreneurs as limited liability companies. In this way, the Civic Platform noticed the problem already in 2013. It was already planned to include CIT limited companies. Why didn't it happen? Why, for unknown, unexplained reasons, did this proposal suddenly fall out of the project? You can only guess. The tax gap remained in the legislation and for this reason there are more and more companies, four times more than six years ago. This is a kind of tax absurdity. It cannot be that the sole justification for the activity in the form of a limited partnership is the tax motive. And where are the business prices that the Platform is screaming so loudly about? I hear some entrepreneurs joke that CIT in Poland is voluntary, but it's not funny. With a correspondingly high income, they can choose CIT 0% by setting up an additional limited partnership. State control at such tax holes in the law is fiction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has to be changed. In Poland it operates around... [[Disruption of reception]] ..companies... In that case, I would like to ask you on behalf of the parliamentary club to adopt this bill. Law and Justice will vote in favour of it. Thank you. Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The speech by the Member of the PiS Club clearly indicates the views of the Ministry and the club. Just scoop it up. Not develop, not create conditions for development, but spoil as much as possible. Tell me, why do you measure others with your measure? Why are you measuring businessmen with your measure? Why do you call companies operating in the form of a limited partnership aggressive tax optimizers? Why? Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting, I asked what the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology said. I still haven't gotten an answer today. And this ministry should create the conditions for development, for maintaining jobs and for increasing investment. Unfortunately, we are convinced that this solution will have an exact negative impact on all the elements I have mentioned. Yesterday, Prime Minister, Minister Gowin said that we are ready for dialogue with all sectors. The Ministry is on your side. Where is this ministry on the business side? Where? Has it commented on the additional taxation of limited companies? Of course not. The commando companies also operate - I wanted to draw attention - in the catering industry. In the industry that this government shut down on Friday, day by day, without guaranteeing anything, without talking, without discussing, without debating. They turned it off from day to day. And today, ladies and gentlemen, he sits quietly in this House of the Sejm, and quietly the ministry maintains that he wants to tax these companies additionally. It's not only that he's shutting them out of business, it's gonna tax them. And this morning, the premieres at the press conference assured me that there would be support. That's the backup? Dear Entrepreneurs! If this House adopts this Act as an additional tax for limited companies, thank only Prime Minister Gowin and his party, because their vote depends on whether you can continue to develop and whether you will survive or not. Mr Gowin and his party are truly addressed to this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u119	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, Mr Nitras was about to speak with me, which, of course, is about to be addressed by many Poles and Poles living abroad. The scandal is that he gags in the Polish Sejm of Polish Members who speak on very important matters, especially for those who are not in Poland today, for those who earn abroad. But to the point, your marshal. This speech is addressed primarily to the ladies and gentlemen of Members, as well as to all the people from the governing camp, from the PiS camp. You drown Poland, you strangle it. You've already drowned the catering industry, you've drowned the fitness industry, you've drowned the tourism industry. Step by step, you are melting new industries, more businesses, more entrepreneurs - people from whom and from whom you live, people who work hard every day in Polish GDP, Polish prosperity. The loop that PiS is preparing for citizens and entrepreneurs is getting tighter and tighter. This loop takes breath and freedom. The government has introduced and continues to impose a number of burdens on companies and citizens, such as: bank tax, continuation of freezing of the PIT tax thresholds, increase of ZUS contributions, recycling fee, sugar tax, monkey tax, increased VAT, issue fee, solidarity duty, finally abolishing the abolition of the allowance and double taxation of limited companies, which de facto means eliminating them. Law firms are already covering their hands because they're gonna have extra work because they're all gonna run away from those proposals you have. Of course, there is more and more. Citizens, employees, entrepreneurs feel it more and more in their pockets, in their daily lives. In September inflation was higher than a month earlier and, let me remind you, the highest in the European Union - 3.8 percentage points. People have less and less money, they lose their jobs, they just seem to be worried about their future in the world. In return, all you have for them is fear and control. You don't trust entrepreneurs, you don't trust citizens. You treat them like crooks, you don't let them work. You're getting deeper and deeper into the pockets of citizens and entrepreneurs. You pryed out of everything, you didn't prepare for a second wave of pandemic, which you knew would come eventually. Now you're punishing everyone for this, and you should punish yourselves first and foremost. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! During the committee's work, we tabled many amendments: 11. Today, I am making another 15 amendments, which aim primarily (The Bell) to withdraw from this provision on the abolition of the abolition allowance, the de facto liquidation of limited companies, i.e. their double taxation. We're against this bill. Marshal, I'd like another vote. Last sentence. We are all facing: the government, entrepreneurs, citizens, but also the opposition with the biggest crisis in 30 years. Over 400,000. The workers are in quarantine. You close - I'm talking about the government, about the rulers - more and more industries, and what do you give? You are giving a shield, or actually a concrete wheel, in the form of this law, which should be called otherwise: a law concerning the liquidation of limited companies and the liquidation of the abolition of the concession. As the Civic Coalition, we are against this bill... [[Applause]] Thank you. ...we are against this bill and we are again filing, as at first reading, a motion to reject this bill - at second reading. Thank you. We're gonna fight till the end. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Bravo, sir!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u121	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The Left Club is in favour of abortion without restrictions and without compromises. But moving on to the subject of this law: as a Left, we have a negative opinion on this law and we are in favour of rejecting it unconditionally. [[Applause]] But if this proposal hadn't gone through... Although it should pass, because less than the right hand, according to what we read in the documents relating to this law, is behind this law. The Ministry of Development is opposed to this law, the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises appointed by this government is against this law, and many right-wing environments are against this law. It is difficult not to be contrary to this law if it concerns 3 million people employed in limited companies, if it concerns 40,000. limited companies which generate PLN 300 billion of national income if it concerns 2807 local government units which lose significant income as a result of its entry into force, if it concerns 67 000. Poles and Poles employed abroad, who will lose their previous abolition relief. It is difficult for Polish citizens and citizens, including the left, the opposition and, I hope, the government side, not to oppose this law. This bill is not only misconstrued, but also miscalculated. Its overarching fiscal objective will also not be achieved, as has not yet been mentioned. The assumption of the Ministry of Finance in this explanatory memorandum is that it will generate PLN 2 billion, but if you count what the Ministry of Finance states in the materials concerning this law, it will turn out that it will generate PLN 100 million rather than PLN 2 billion. She's just miscalculated. The Left Club amends to delete the entire article if it is not possible to reject the entire law. Point 2, i.e. double taxation of limited partnership companies. If this does not work, we will apply for this article in a point. 1 plus lithium. and that these changes apply only to limited partnership companies with foreign capital, which are actually 2%. This is all that the PiS Member has said does not refer to the facts. There's 0.4% in tax havens. Those commando companies. If this is the case, let this law apply only to foreign capital companies. We're asking to be deleted from the article. Point 12, which concerns the liquidation of the abolition allowance. If this relief was not to discriminate against our citizens and citizens, the tax-free amount should be PLN 33 600, and since it is not, we propose simply to delete it and introduce it after the article. Article 22 22a and Article 22a 22b, which assume compensation for local government units by means of a targeted grant for 2021 and 2022. We specifically justify why. Maybe just a few more words, since I have a moment, a reason. We are based on the data of the Ministry of Finance itself as to why the assumed financial effect will not be achieved. These are shocking data, ladies and gentlemen. It turns out that the law not only destroys Polish entrepreneurs and their workplaces, they overwhelm the budgets of municipalities and powiats, but also significantly overwhelm the state budget itself. Currently, limited companies are not CIT taxpayers. The partners of these companies, as we know, pay PIT at a linear rate of 19% from the revenues generated by the limited partnership companies. If these companies are taxed with CIT, the partners of these companies will not pay PIT for 2021. The increase in CIT revenues will therefore be coupled with a decrease in PIT revenue. Additional income from PIT will occur at the earliest in 2022 if the partners of these limited companies decide to pay dividends. From experience, it's not gonna happen. 72% limited liability companies do not show income and do not pay taxes at all. CIT is paid at 19% and 9% , and PIT at a rate of 19%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If I don't have time, I won't show it to you again, but I believe we can count everyone in this room. From this calculation it appears that this bill is simply suitable for basketball. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u122	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The more I analyze the provisions of this law, the more I come to the conclusion that it was given a completely wrong title. She could successfully be called the Act on the liquidation of limited companies in Poland. High Izbo, 73,000. Polish entrepreneurs operate in 45 thousand. limited partnership. It is a huge number of Polish, native economic entities, which the Polish government at an extremely difficult time, at a time when we want every place of work to be saved, so that the Polish, native economy survives this difficult time, serves such a thing. Minister, there's really something wrong with this step you've taken. What will be the results of the adoption of this bill, the United Right project served by Polish companies operating in limited companies? First of all, real taxation will increase from day to day, i.e. from 19% to 422/45%. This one, Minister, no one can stand it. This will result in mass bankruptcy and the transformation of companies into public or civil companies. This will certainly result in an increase in unemployment. Each limited partnership employs at least dozens of employees on average, which is why rejecting this harmful bill is in our view the common interest of employers and workers. The reduction in salaries for young workers, the blocking of investments and new jobs, the numerous bankruptcies of companies operating on a low margin, and this is the case in many cases, especially at this time, the discouragement of income. Developing a grey zone for many will be a real temptation. The competitive capacity of Polish capital vis-à-vis foreign corporations will be significantly reduced. Maybe I will develop this foreign aspect, because even recently before my first reading as one of the arguments you raised a certain argument, except, of course, a jump to the money, because it is known that it is beginning to run out of budget. I agree with the previous speakers' voices that this is a leap on entrepreneurs' money, because I think the indicators are alarming when it comes to the state budget. This argument was very widely raised by the designers. The point is that this is a fight against speculation, a fight against some wicked activities related to the transfer of money from Poland, avoidance of taxation. For God's sake, Minister, they come forward today - I think it's up to you first, but also to us - people who make up commando companies, entrepreneurs operating in commanditic companies. These are native, often some generation of representatives of the transport industry, agri-food industry, representatives of industries representing various fields, such as Poland's long and wide. It insults them to treat their Polish government in such a way, which many of them voted for. Today they view it as a slap on the face. I will finish with a question, Minister, perhaps still completed later, in a round of questions: What really prompted the Polish government to barge in on commando companies that operate, which bring income to the Polish budget, which give many, many thousands of jobs? What really happened, what forced such a foolish decision, a gesture of despair? Is this a hole in the state's money, which many suspect, or are there other circumstances? The coalition of Poland makes a request for rejection in the second reading of this harmful bill, harmful to Polish domestic entrepreneurs, which during the crisis must be respected and not imposed on them such restrictions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u124	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We listened as the PiS Member said that limited companies are doing damage to Poland. How can companies that pay taxes that employ 3 million people in Poland do damage? After all, this is a completely absurd situation. PiS Members do not understand that without these entrepreneurs, without those people who work hard, there will be no budget. There will be no employment here. There's going to be enormous unemployment. How can you not understand that? You can if you've never been an entrepreneur, if you've been an official your whole life or someone who's never given a job. 41,000. limited companies, 3 million people employed. These limited companies are 95% Polish capital, i.e. people who work in Poland and work for Poland. And what does the PiS propose? In October or November, let us introduce a bill in which from 1 January they will be double-taxed. Apparently, they don't do enough for Poland. It's just gonna end up with them taking these companies abroad or taking them out. Is that what this is about? Is this really about getting rid of all this? Besides, we're really shutting down other industries, and we don't get anything in return. We're not delivering new impulses to the economy. I know nobody cares about the PiS side, but at some point it has to break down, you can't function like that. The limited companies do not serve any tax optimization. They are transparent, pay off local taxes and give stable employment to residents. Do we really have any problems other than taking care of companies that do really good work? If you lack this money, and apparently you lack it, this is a simple way - digital tax from Google and Facebook. Only here did you not have the courage, because it was enough that the Vice President of the United States, Mike Pence, arrived, patted on the back of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, and you withdrew from it, you withdrew. And in return, what? In return, you want to destroy Polish entrepreneurs, Polish business. That's your plan. I'm really surprised as the person who ran the commando company, I really don't get it. I don't understand your actions, because it's hard work, it's a responsibility, and no one's putting any assets on the side. These are people who work hard to earn money to keep their businesses going. And you're taking it out at one point. These people have business plans, maybe they've started, they've taken some loans, maybe they're thinking about selling the company, and none of this is gonna work out, because at one point you're destroying it. Really, let's reject this very bad bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u127	Dear Marshal! We are talking about another tax, in this case of course it will be a pretend tax again - that it is not there. I look at the room and again in the law and justice sector of people: one, rapporteur. That's enough, I'd say, sad. Only now should we say a few more words to those who actually listen to us today, here, during this discussion. These are Poles who work abroad, Poles who unfortunately have such a professional career. I say: unfortunately, because in most cases they are not people who have decided to develop professionally abroad and continue to live officially or leave their families here in Poland - these are people who have experienced personal tragedies. These are people for whom Poland was insufficient, did not have an offer for them. These are people who haven't found themselves on our labour market, because there wasn't a job on our labour market or this job, or the job was so low-cost, that as they saw what offers look like abroad, they said they'd be much better there and they'll manage there somehow. These are people who often left behind, for example. their wives or husbands, their children, their families and they work there, they send money here. They come here to spend some time, and then they go there again to make money to keep it going, to keep it going. These are people who make sacrifices for their families, and yet remain patriots, staying here in Poland. Their families are here in Poland. They bring this money here, to Poland, here mostly they spend it. What does Law and Justice want to do? Law and Justice wants to reduce the abolition relief. He wants to do everything he can to get an extra tax out of these people. He wants to force them to pay an additional tax, which they might not have paid if it weren't for the fact that Law and Justice are falling apart, and it's absolutely on all sides. They don't have any idea, but the idea suddenly turns out to be to rip off extra money from people who work abroad. This is a hit on our Polonia, even bigger than what you did during the fake so-called. correspondence elections when the majority was cut off from voting opportunities. This is an outrage. For these people. It's a tragedy. Shame on you for making that decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u129	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I'd like to say that there's no argument... Louder. ...a speaker for the introduction of a limited tax, indicating that there are extortion, depletion, tax optimization, did not fall. In this room, the entire opposition is right - you are looking for extra money. Why are you doing this in the most difficult time for Poles? Because no one in this room... Answer how many controls, how many optimizations, so that this argument can sound. And the other thing, one of the previous speakers said, you don't give a chance. We used to work on the abolition case. Someone works abroad, that part doesn't pay tax. What about you? Extra tax. How can you talk to Poles and encourage them to return? It's not like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This money, not from the black zone, from the gray zone imported, is driving our economy. Why are you doing this to Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u130	Thank you, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u131	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first question is why you decided to tax CIT on these limited companies, and you do not take into account the basic facts that you yourself provide in this justification, namely that CIT taxpayers effectively display a tax to pay only 24,25% these taxpayers, while, as the Ministry of Finance itself states, among PIT taxpayers paying a linear rate 19% 83% effectively displays a tax to be paid. So the result of this bill is that this decline in PIT-paying and the amount of PIT paid... of this inheritance, of unpaid PIT, will exceed the increase in CIT. The second question concerns (the bell) local government units. The units have no part in the roar. If you're rejecting our amendments to compensate for this loss, how are you going to make up for this loss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish families are already on the verge of endurance. Meanwhile, the Polish government changes key tax laws. After the clinical death of millions of Polish micro- and small companies, you introduce regulations that are an attack on the income of 2.5 million Poles and Poles working abroad. Most often they work away from their homes so that their families can live well in Poland from the first to the first, in a country where the state has already abandoned care for the health, safety and happiness of citizens. You want to seal the tax system, do it wisely, and don't rob ordinary people of money, for which they have already paid hard work, separation and are also financially accountable to financial services in those countries where they earn money. Focus on taxing other groups. Will you introduce e.g. Instead of eliminating the abolition credit for priests? Bring it in instead of eliminating that relief. There is no agreement of the Left (the bell) to remove the abolition allowance for foreign earners. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u134	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again I stand up for Polish employers, I stand up for those who create jobs, stand up for those who pay taxes, stand up for those who work for 12 hours, and sometimes more, stand up for those who risk their own assets. Today we have a peak of infections and I am surprised that you are bringing such a disgraceful bill to our House at such a time. Today we also have a practical lockdown for the economy, thoughtless and stupid, because no one has plans today, no one analyzes that with many elements you could give up at all, do not enter such a deep lockdown. I don't think you're doing well. It's a pity about Poland. Give me the power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: What are your decisions based on? Because not based on reality, that's for sure, and you can see it every step of the way. Have you noticed that entrepreneurs haven't recovered from the spring lockdown and are already facing the second lockdown? The question to Prime Minister Gowin, who is responsible for the development of the economy and not for the destruction of the economy: Prime Minister, will you be on the side of entrepreneurs? And one more question for you. You're talking about the fact that entrepreneurs who work as part of a limited partnership conduct aggressive tax optimization. You're the aggressors, you're the aggressive fiscal policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u138	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u139	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I want to thank all those entrepreneurs who are following us because I know there are many of them, and I know they're looking at what's going on here. It's a good thing you're doing this because you have to tell your friends, you have to tell Poles and Poles that these people, instead of helping Polish entrepreneurs in times of crisis, help them through difficult times, [[Applause]] will lead these Polish companies to collapse. And you guys need to talk about it tonight. This project is double outrageous. First of all, it eliminates the abolition, which means it takes away Poles who work hard abroad for their salary, the hard-earned money. Today you tell them: don't come back, stay where you are, because if you come to Poland, we will take this money away from you. Is that okay? But then there's the second case I've already mentioned, which is the hit on the limited companies, the companies that he's creating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish capital, Polish families. Today, in times of crisis, these companies are killing. I have a question: When will you stop destroying Polish companies, Polish companies, Polish economy and get to work to protect them from what happened to them today, in the days of Coronavirus? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u141	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 16,000. infections. A country in chaos. You're going to war with the Poles. You're even hiding yourself from St. John Paul II, who at the time of his pontificate never once questioned the abortion compromise. You send the Poles to war, but this anger will reach you. The eighth commandment tells us not to give false witness against one's neighbor. Let me remind you this: On July 1st, Duda says that he is a guarantee of not raising taxes in Poland. On July 8th, President Duda says he will always aim to lower taxes. What are you doing? You want to hit 70,000. Polish entrepreneurs from limited companies. You're lying. [[Applause]] In addition, you want to hit Poles and Poles working abroad. The anger of men will reach you because you lie and cheat. That's why you're about to give up power. [[Applause]] I wanted to greet all those who are under the Seym, unite and speak decisively about how you lead Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u142	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got another phase of the epidemic, we've got another lockdown in fact. Sports, gyms, fitness clubs no longer work. The gastronomy doesn't work. In a very difficult situation is the tourism industry, transport industry. Many companies haven't even risen since the spring lockdown. Among these companies are also limited companies. I ask: Is it your goal to butcher these companies and kill those lying companies? Because that's what it looks like. If, in turn, your aim is to seek savings and additional income, then I must disappoint you, because when introducing these taxes, the company will turn back into civil or public companies and you will not see this money at all. What's gonna happen for that? Unemployment will increase, employees' salaries will decrease. If you're looking for savings, why don't you look for them a little closer together, maybe in the Treasury companies, maybe in funds for Rydzyk or TVP PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u144	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u145	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government. Do you realize that you are attacking companies that work well, which have found a formula that suits them, that you are attacking companies that are the most family, honest, Polish, just like we want? After all, if this law does not end up in the basket and at least in the freezer, it will mean that PiS treated Polish entrepreneurs from the very beginning as a lemon, which should be squeezed into election times and thrown into the basket. There are various industries, even gastronomic ones. Lawyers say that action outside the commandite formula loses its existence today. Transporters say it's the third hit this year. First - lockdown, second - implementation of the cross-border directive, and now - this commando. Guys, what are you doing? After all, you are attacking the most honest Polish companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get out of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In her speech, Mrs Janyska mentioned companies, food business operators. Let me ask you this: Why do you want to slaughter these companies, which function largely as commando companies? That's because there's no money in the budget. And why is that missing? That's because Mrs. Szydło paid the wrong prizes because she deserved it. Because you're giving money to the Polish National Foundation to put a hat on judges because it's the right thing to do. That's because you're paying off your debt. Rydzyka. Is there money missing? You want to extort them from Polish entrepreneurs. And they're the ones who keep their employees, they're the ones who give jobs, they're the ones who make progress. Go to your senses, for you have locked yourselves in your shell, where there are high salaries for the heads of state Treasury companies, where there are high prizes - even in the Ministry of Health when the Ministry of Health does not grasp what is happening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in relation to the pandemic. You're looking for money where it doesn't belong. Look in your room. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u148	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First, I want to address all women who bravely fight for their rights on the streets of Polish cities, including my Szczecin. Ladies, we're with you. [[Applause]] Bravo! But now I'm gonna move on to business because this is where the government is planning another disaster. When entrepreneurs struggle hard to keep jobs, they struggle hard for their existence, what does the government do? He's putting on more taxes. This bill is a double taxation of limited companies, a massive blow to over 70,000. Polish entrepreneurs. Let me get this straight. You've brought public finances to this state, there's a big hole. You have to fall asleep, and that's why you reach into the wallets and pockets of those who pay taxes fairly and legally. Do you really think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the crisis is the best time to put on more responsibilities and take the entrepreneurs out of their pockets? No. We're in a crisis. Entrepreneurs should be supported and not subject to further taxes. This project should go to the trash. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u150	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is this bill next to Estonian CIT another step towards a simple tax system that will support companies during the economic downturn? Is it true that some limited companies are a convenient tool in international tax avoidance structures? Minister, is it true that in 2013 the authorities of that time submitted a similar bill and used the same arguments as those they had in the seven-hour debate at the level of the Public Finance Commission? And she didn't take it, and she didn't give it... Finally, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am making a clarification amendment in respect of the real estate company acting as payer. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u152	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u153	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I will answer you, sir. Don't run away. You're the ones who are introducing double taxation on the limited companies. You're the ones that are eliminating them. It's sadly true. If you wish, you can reach out to how many limited partnership companies have foreign capital. Less than 500. Do you know how many limited companies are in Poland? Over 30,000, over 40,000, and some say about 70,000. It is scandalous that you talk about Poland when you think about yourself, not when you think about Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] Minister! I have a question: Do you know that 45% is believed to be surveyed by the Central Statistical Office of restaurants and hotels will not last more than one quarter? Did the Minister see the appeal of business organisations and employers not to introduce this disgraceful bill? [[Applause]] You're the only ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to search the pockets of Polish taxpayers and Polish citizens with greedy hands. We're against it. We will not vote in favour of this bill. And I ask once again to take into account the appeal - not Members of the opposition, but above all Polish entrepreneurs, Polish citizens and citizens - that you do not introduce this shameful law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u154	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u155	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I'm very concerned about what's going on at the Ministry of Finance. I want to tell you, Minister, that first-year economics students know that no taxes are ever raised during the recession or the economic slowdown. That's what we teach in freshman year. Either someone there didn't go to class with you, or all those who had any idea about economic policy, you threw them out of work. [[Applause]] Minister! You want more money, so you're trying to get the Poles. You want more money because you've had good economic years, giving away money to the right and to the left. But I'm gonna tell you where to look for money, and I'm gonna ask you why you don't. Why don't you charge taxes on international digital companies? Because you're afraid of your American ally? Don't you have enough courage? You'd rather pick your own. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizens? Why don't you make it right with the Tax Order, which has been amended several dozen times since 1998? Do something for the entrepreneurs, do something for the citizens, not just for yourself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On 5 May, from this stand, Minister Sarnowski promised to the Poles and Poles that the Minister of Finance would prepare solutions to pass 1% on to Poland in response to my question. personal income tax on more than one public benefit organisation. Last year, taxpayers transferred PLN 907 million for this purpose, and more than 14 million taxpayers benefited from it. Will the resort introduce this solution or not? Second thing. Not only do you reach into taxpayers' pockets with these solutions, but above all you simply deprive the development opportunities of local governments. In the next 10 years, according to your assessment of financial regulation, local governments will lose PLN 15.7 billion and in the next 3 years - PLN 7.4 billion. How can local communities represented by local governments be deprived of their development opportunities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we are talking about the abolition of the abolition relief, which will affect Poles and Poles living abroad. They will simply pay higher taxes in 2021. You promised that there would be no higher taxes. There are even Members from Solidarna Polska who signed the declaration of the young generation. Shame on you. Today you raise taxes for Poles and Poles working abroad. But, ladies and gentlemen, these days Poles and Poles also protest in London, Toronto, Brussels, Paris, Berlin, Geneva, New York, Sidney, Dublin, Munich, Chicago, Edinburgh, Stockholm, Munich, Zurich, Amsterdam, Cologne, and many other European and world cities against the pseudo-judgment that we want to create in our country a hell for women. If at the moment the Polish people decide to return to the country [[♪ The bell ♪]] from emigration, it will certainly take into account that Jarosław Kaczyński ambushed their freedom and their dignity, which he is destroying at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a quick question. Many limited companies benefited from anti-crisis shields. Today, as a result of these changes that you want to make, many of these companies will close down. I have a very specific question: How will public authorities treat such situations? How will those who will end their business today, because they will not be able to compete in their fields and manage to continue running their businesses, be treated with regard to the aid they have received? Will it be refundable? Is there any way you're gonna be gentle with these companies? They didn't change the rules of the game, they changed the rules of the game. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, public authority in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a disgraceful and evil bill. You deprive local governments of revenue of about PLN 1.5 billion due to flat-rate income tax. The Polish Towns Association speaks of this. But for this you took care of your own income - income tax revenue will fully contribute to the state budget. You'll have something to pay for your supporters. It's even more shameful that you're introducing the so-called. Estonian CIT - not any Estonian, only PiS-owski - in times of crisis. Over 70,000. Polish businesses, which employ more than 3 million people, will be taxed twice. These entities today are asking and screaming: don't do it. It's a nail in a coffin for them. They can't handle another racket, you know that. You're smiling because you've never done business, Minister. Of course. These companies are saying today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think they need backup. Is this what state support is supposed to be like? This CIT, ladies and gentlemen, is a central, irrational tax tyranny towards Polish economic operators. There's no permission to do that. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u164	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Why does the government want to double tax limited companies in a time of worsening crisis rather than supporting entrepreneurs? That could even be 46%. It's another blow given to entrepreneurs. This could cause an avalanche of bankruptcy. Is that what this is about? One avalanche of PiS has already started. The discussion takes place on the streets of Polish cities. Is that what this is about? Why the limited companies were not covered by the so-called. Estonian CIT? At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we were convinced that a good argument, based on figures, would convince the government, but, as the rapporteur said, only the PiS amendments were voted out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The others, even the best, were not accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u167	I get a call from citizens and they ask why the state, the government urges them to go abroad permanently. If the only host family works abroad and pays contributions, taxes, some benefits, some entitlements cannot be used in Poland. So far you could say that something for something - he doesn't pay taxes here, so he doesn't use it. This is about to change now - people will have to pay taxes in both countries, and yet they will not have the same powers. Therefore, they are rightly deceived and plundered in two countries at the same time, asymmetrically. The government de facto invites them to permanent emigration, because only then will they avoid double taxation. Is the government aware of these side effects? Did he think this through? Wouldn't it be so clever that she loses twice? In order to collect some more tax money now, we will lose taxpayers for the future - no more taxes will be paid here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u168	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u169	Minister! You want to patch the budget hole, reaching to the pockets of Poles and Poles working abroad. You reach to the pockets of those who, sharing their lives between Poland and work abroad, return to Poland most often because they have families here. Polish immigrants, whom you want to hurt, feel discriminated against and think that in this way, by eliminating the abolition relief, you want to say goodbye to Poland forever. It sounds loud in the forums and in the letters that go to the government and to the finance minister. The migratory environments speak with one voice: not for the abolition of the abolition relief. Get out of those unfair, hurting proposals that double-tax their salary. They're already paying a high price for working abroad. It is about separation from families and life outside Poland. Stand down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm wearing a mask that says, "Maybe some people on the left can't see on the right are going to eliminate income tax." This is a solution that will make people in Poland want to earn money, that they will not go abroad, where the tax-free amount is several dozen times higher than in Poland, and they do not have to pay such a high tax. They will stay here because they will know that what they will earn will be able to consume, save, invest in Poland. And the state - I'm talking about the government side - is doing everything they can to drive these Poles abroad, and what's more, bring them to a situation where these people have nothing to do with Poland. It is precisely the state that, by eliminating the abolition relief, these people, if they want something to do with Poland, will have to pay double taxes. This isn't the way. 40% - so much is taxing work in Poland. From every worked-out gold mower 40 gr. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's it, take out the income tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u172	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u173	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The longer I listen to your statements, the more I think we are talking about two different projects. Is the purpose of the regulation we propose to melt down further industries and entrepreneurs? Is it her goal to rob companies? No, the proposed law has one objective: to improve the health of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Entrepreneurs in Poland lose. They lose not only as a result of the epidemic of restrictions, but also as a result of the new threat of market instability. What do companies need? The three things that the bill presented to them today will give them. Firstly, low taxes that will allow financial security cushions to be created or funds to be invested when new opportunities arise. Secondly, companies need security, maximum simplicity of billing, so that it takes as little time as possible to carry out their tax duties. Remember, the simpler the tax settlement rules, the lower the cost of handling it and the less risk of costly and time-consuming disputes, making mistakes. Thirdly, companies need, now in particular, a level playing field. At a time of economic slowdown, in the time of increased competition for customers, it is crucial for companies, especially the smaller ones, to ensure a level playing field with larger players. It is the big market players who have the most opportunities to save money on taxes. The fight against tax avoidance by larger companies is particularly urgent right now, during the epidemic, because large companies push the smaller ones out of the market and, to a large extent, they are helped by the competitive advantage they achieve through savings on taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, tax cuts for small business and sharp steps against tax avoidance are now being taken by the majority of European Union countries, among others. Germany, France, Austria, Italy or Hungary. As far as limited companies are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about an additional tax on limited companies. We are talking about the level of taxation between a limited liability company and the conduct of business in the hybrid formula of a limited liability company and a limited liability company, which is economically exactly the same as a limited liability company. In such a scheme, the limited partnership camouflages the real activity of the entrepreneur, which is no different from the limited liability company. This is a problem that many countries see. The inclusion of CIT in limited partnership companies with the appropriate exemption for the partner and the amount free for the commander, i.e. what we are doing in Poland now, is recommended by the OECD. This has already been done by 12 countries of the European Union. They are both in the West, i.e. Belgium and Spain, as well as our neighbours, Lithuania and the Czech Republic, as well as Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. The inclusion of CIT in limited liability companies will not mean that they need to be wound up. They will continue to serve business to raise capital from non-related entities. They will not only avoid CIT taxation. Smaller companies won't feel change. CIT paid by the company will be deducted from the tax paid by the partners. The situation of the partner will not change, and the commander will benefit from the amount free. In the case of smaller companies, taxation will fall, even with a partner, and will not amount to 19% as it is now with linear drinking, and not much more than 17%. In relation to other companies, the tax will be adjusted to the level of taxation of the limited liability company, bearing in mind that now 19% is levied on such a hybrid. PIT, and will be charged, in the case of as much as 70% of which 9% CIT. As long as the company does not pay its shareholders dividends, as long as current taxation will be more than half lower, which will give these companies, including these hybrids, an additional capital security cushion that will help them to survive this difficult period. As regards the abolition relief, I would like to ask you very cordially once again to align the level of knowledge between us, between Members and Members of Parliament and Polonia. Let us remember that this is not a regulation that will affect Polonia in any way. This is not a regulation that affects people who live outside Poland longer than 189 days a year. This is not a regulation that affects more than 2.5 million Poles living abroad. There are only a few more than 60 thousand people benefiting from the abolition allowance, of which approx. 2/3 of them will not be affected at all, and of those affected by this change, the vast majority of them achieve income, i.e. saves more than 10,000 on taxes. PLN per year. This is the difference between what they pay abroad and what they would pay in Poland from income of the same amount achieved on the spot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law amending the Law on the procedure for public aid cases (Prints Nos 608 and 670). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present the report of the committee, in print No 670, on the draft law amending the Law on State Aid Procedure, in print No 608. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading on 16 September 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed solution introduces legal certainty when the Court of Justice of the European Union finds that the European Commission's aid decisions have been annulled. This proposal ensures that decisions or civil law agreements providing for the granting of public aid approved by a decision of the European Commission may continue to be implemented in so far as it does not involve payment of the aid. This project makes it necessary for the European Commission to re-evaluate the aid measure in the form of money to collect the funds due in the dedicated bank account. This obligation shall take effect from the date of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This law is extremely important due to the Polish power market law, which guarantees public aid for conventional energy, the reservation of renewable energy. This project is compatible with European Union law. The project will have a neutral impact on the public finance sector. The project does not distort the competitiveness of the economy. The Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 8 October, during which substantial legislative and order changes were introduced making the draft more transparent, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u177	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Law on Public Aid Procedure in Sejm Print No 608. The solutions proposed in this parliamentary bill provide legal certainty if the Court of Justice of the European Union finds that the European Commission's decisions on aid cases have been annulled. Those provisions shall ensure that the decision or civil law agreements providing for the granting of public aid approved by the Decision of the European Commission may continue to be implemented in so far as it does not involve the payment of aid to beneficiaries. In addition, it should be noted that, during the re-evaluation of the aid measure by the European Commission, the body responsible for the granting of aid in monetary form will be required to collect the funds due to the beneficiary in a dedicated bank account. This obligation would be updated if the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled on the annulment of the decision of the European Commission. It is necessary to make the obligation to raise funds on the bank account subject to the issuing of a judgment. It allows for a precise time frame within which funds should be collected in a dedicated account between the annulment of the European Commission's decision and the adoption of a new decision by the European Commission. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the same time, I would like to make a number of amendments on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which are specific to the existing provisions of this parliamentary bill. In view of this argument, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly on the amendment of the Law on State aid proceedings, together with the amendments notified. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to present a position on the Law amending the Law on State aid proceedings. The Act, as has already been noted, mainly contains technical provisions governing the disposal of State aid in the event that the Court of Justice annuls the European Commission's decision on State aid granted. The project allows, with the agreement of the beneficiaries of the public aid, the continuation of administrative contracts and decisions while raising funds in separate bank accounts until the decision is re-issued. This is a desirable action. The Act was consulted at the level of the UOKiK, and some legislative amendments were introduced and all the doubts we raised in the committee were clarified. We therefore have no amendments and we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wiesław Buz, Left. Bluj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u181	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Having read of the proposed draft law amending the Law on State aid proceedings, it seems reasonable to me to believe that the proposed draft envisaged appropriate solutions which would have a positive impact on the ordering of the rules in the event that the Court of Justice of the European Union found that the European Commission's decisions on aid cases had been annulled. It is reasonable to assume that, during the re-evaluation of the aid measure by the Commission, the body responsible for granting the aid in monetary form will be required to collect the funds due to the beneficiary in a dedicated bank account. However, attention should be paid to the need for precise identification of the authorising officer of the aid collected by the Commission. In addition, account should be taken of the situation in which the European Commission decides not to grant aid for the execution of payments when the State aid measures have been partly paid to the beneficiary. The question should be asked: What entity will then have the other resources and whether the assumptions of this draft law contained in the article. 24a point 5 will have an equivalent application in the complex situation? So many questions arise: What will happen to the means if there is no solution? After all, we know that these matters are going on for a long time, and the TSUE, as international arbitration, often has very serious problems, dilemmas, because the current law that is being implemented often gives rise to very variable interpretations as to the appropriateness of aid in relation to the competitiveness of the European market. Secondly, the problem is that, depending on what we are doing, this affects the economy and the EU's qualifications for assistance are often very volatile in the short term. Thirdly, the bank's request for aid is also not clearly democratic, I would say, a market solution. The applicants in the project indicate that BGK will be the bank - at least as mentioned in the committee - which will be the manager of these measures. Does this not put the remaining banks operating on the domestic market at a disadvantage? We know the case that during the forced restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank the various European funds allocated to the implementation of the aid investments have been lost. Thus, it may be appropriate to move towards the establishment of such a right that these funds may be deposited in an account with any bank and that they are exempt from the bankruptcy of the bank concerned if, of course, it is in such a situation. The Supreme Court referred such a question to the TSUE, about the fate of money from European Union aid funds deposited in a failing bank. High Seym! Knowing and submitting many dilemmas, the legislative initiative to amend the Law on State aid by adding an article. 24a after Article. 24 should be assessed as expected and needed. The indication of clear rules for determining the time limits for the movement and location of aid measures, schemes of procedure, including the alternative of the actions of the beneficiaries in connection with the annulment of the Commission's decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union, allows for the conclusion that the proposed provisions appear to resolve issues which so far may give rise to interpretation doubts and which result in different proceedings in different cases. So I propose a vote in favour of the proposed solutions. And one more point on how to proceed with the bill and its preparation and to bring it into session. In fact, I believe that an important project should be prepared by the Polish Government and thoroughly consulted and conducted between ministries and consulted with EU law. It turned out at first reading that the rapporteur could not explain and answer the questions asked. The Legal Office of the Sejm, which took part in its legislative duties, has proved helpful as always. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u182	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, who will present this in a remote version. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u183	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, I would like to refer to the presented project. Well, as my predecessor, Mr Boj, said, the project has indeed been prepared in a scandalous way. He was not fit if we wanted to be consistent, to be accepted by the committee. First of all, there was no known author, we had to look for the author, and then these changes, and if it weren't for the Legislative Bureau, we probably wouldn't have been able to rewrite this project on the committee. But I'm getting back to the point. This project is really about one law today, one problem - the energy system in Poland and so-called. power market law, called power law in short. Since PiS took over, it has been in constant dispute with the European Commission on energy solutions. We could list all the cases that have happened here. This conflict, this dispute is continuing and only delays the introduction of many good solutions, because it prevents even the use of aid measures, leaves the energy system in great uncertainty. Today, the energy system is in a very difficult economic situation. Many factors came to this end - the freezing of electricity prices two years ago, where energy companies were exposed to large losses, the integration into the energy system of the mining sector, where the aid to mines caused large losses to the energy system, and today there is a problem. In turn, at this moment, freezing, actually, prices for electricity, that's... [[Disruption of reception]] . . Unfavorable. In the meantime, the so-called. power market, it is a law which is intended to support the modernisation of the energy system in Poland. This is what citizens, residents and entrepreneurs are going to make up for. From the beginning, we have argued that this is the wrong solution. We voted against this solution. It was supposed to come in from September this year. Due to the economic and economic situation caused by the pandemic, this solution was postponed to 1 January 2021, i.e. in a few months it will enter. What does that do? What's causing this? Unfortunately, electricity consumers in Poland will have to resort to the energy system, which should be modernised in the amount of approx. PLN 6 billion minimum. It is in this economic, economic, difficult situation for households, and especially for companies that are currently having huge problems, that is dangerous and cannot be allowed to do so. Therefore, the Polish People's Party submitted a project which will postpone the introduction of this law causing an increase in electricity prices from January next year until we have a stable economic situation when we will stabilise farms, state enterprises, and also when the material situation of households will improve. 6 billion PLN per year is not such a small amount. That's what everyone in the monthly bills will feel. That is why we have submitted such a project, so that at least a year, and if the situation does not improve, then until the economic situation is better. It is not possible to charge citizens, Poles, with additional taxes today, because it is a tax on the renovation of installations which are already beginning to block, are not able. An irresponsible energy policy has led to this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All such voices, jumping, lack of responsible, decisive decisions led to the fact that the energy system in Poland is becoming inefficient. We will support this bill, of course, if it is corrected, because it generally depends on what amendments were tabled there, because it was not reported at the committee meeting. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u184	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. I now ask that Mr Krystian Kaminski speak, who will present his position on behalf of the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's that law about anyway? If the Court of Justice of the European Union annuls the European Commission's aid decisions, it shall ensure that decisions or civil law agreements providing for the granting of public aid approved by a decision of the European Commission may continue to be implemented in so far as it does not involve payment of the aid. This is, of course, the right thing to do. However, public aid is generally prohibited. Forbidden by the Member States of the European Union pursuant to Article. 107. 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Of course, there are exceptions: aid granted to the economy of certain regions of the Federal Republic of Germany affected by the earlier division of Germany, in so far as it is necessary to compensate for the adverse economic effects caused by that division. Why is one country excluded from the ban? We don't know. It would be fair to disable all states of the former Eastern Block, but we know that will not happen. We read further that any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods is incompatible with the internal market in so far as it affects trade between Member States. And there's a lot more questions. But when Germany e.g. implement the project Nord Stream 2, doesn't that distort competition in the common market? Or when the Posted Workers Directive is introduced, are not countries discriminated against? Poland e.g. There is, because 90,000. Polish companies and 350 thousand. Polish workers are being discriminated against at the moment. Isn't the push-over mobility package a clear push-out of Polish carriers from the European market? Of course it is. Only then there is no European Commission. The European Commission only works when Polish shipyards were closed when Polish mines are now closed. Here he will always see forbidden public aid. The proposed act is, of course, right. But can't we do our own business in the European Union like Germany and the French? Can we not fight for our national interest, for the rights of Polish entrepreneurs to equal treatment in the common market, finally simply for the interests of Polish citizens? No. The Polish government always announces success after the European Council. And then? And then it turns out there's no success. It turns out that he was never there, and the Polish government agreed - as always - to everything. That is why, despite the support of this law, I believe that we should take the problem as a whole and seriously reflect on where and how we operate within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. On this, the list of MEPs who presented the position of clubs and circles was exhausted. Two of your fellow Members have signed up to ask questions. Anyone else want to join us? You're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left. Sorry, it's a mistake. I see. In that case, I would ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is virtually no area of life in which something would not be bogged down by the current government. The same is true of this law. Why is she being processed? Because it's called. a fuse in the event of an unfavourable judgment of the TSUE in the field of power market and the government is secured. The bill is absolutely necessary, but it shows that at the last minute the razors are being drawn. The same is true of this law. Of course, there is no way to shift responsibility for a lack of decision. whether government incapacity on the recipients of power, i.e. on Polish citizens, therefore the bill will be supported by us, of course, taking into account our amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u188	Thank you very much, Member. I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to clarify some of the doubts that have been raised in the course of the speech, and also at the end, by the Member. The point is that in Poland in the previous term we passed a law on the power market. This law guarantees precisely what the majority of Members in this House are seeking - to build renewable energy, green energy. Renewable and green energy can only be built in countries where societies and companies are rich enough to cover additional costs. And this extra cost is the lack of sales at that time... When we sell renewable energy, there is no sale of electricity from conventional energy. So the more renewable energy, the less electricity conventional power plants sell. On the other hand, renewable energy cannot exist without conventional energy, because it is weatherly unpredictable. It means we never know how much energy we're going to have and how much time we're going to have. Therefore, the European Commission has accepted the creation of a power market as an energy market that will be... Power plants will be waiting, with the priority of renewable energy work. When she's gone, there's going to be electricity coming in from those power plants. But in order for these power plants to function so that they can exist in order to pay off their construction, they have to be profitable. And this financial gap, which then arises, is now covered by the power market. Such a law was passed in Poland and the United Kingdom. And that is true: this law has been approved by some environmental environments as the so-called "energy support." black, energy that comes from either oil or gas or coal. Unfortunately, the committee has decided that this reserve has to be and this has to happen. Therefore, I would like to make it clear to Mr Kasprzak that this is not a dispute with the European Commission, but that the European Commission's decision approved the power market both Polish and British because it was similarly constructed. The European Commission has approved... Excuse me, Minister. Why don't we ask your reporter to hold a phone call outside the room. He can't hear. Did you hear the reporter? I'm asking you to move this conversation out of the Seym. Don't wave at the Marshal's guard, just move the conversation. Mr. Journalist, move this conversation out of the O.R. He can't hear you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to end this by saying there's no dispute here. This power market was approved by the European Commission, as was British before when Britain was still a member of the European Union. This power market has been approved and the decision of the European Commission approving this power market has been challenged by the Court of Justice of the European Union. That is why this problem has arisen. On the other hand, this power market is needed and the European Commission does not question this need. If, as a country, we have decided to build renewable energy sources, then in order for them to exist, we must ensure the power market and the existence of conventional energy sources that will be waiting. When there is no renewable energy, this energy will be delivered here. No one in a civilized country will agree to a break in electricity supply. That's the basic thing. I would also like to point out that, indeed, the power market is imposing additional burdens, which are small but individually large in terms of citizens and businesses in terms of the power market. Unfortunately, renewable energy cannot be built without this system, which will guarantee the certainty of power supply. Therefore, with regard to this decision of the TSUE, it is not a decision that we have introduced something in Poland without the European Commission, it is only a dispute within the European Union, the European Commission and the authorities with regard to the extent to which to ensure energy security in individual countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u190	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing (prints Nos 534 and 652). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on a government draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. The draft is contained in print No 534, and the report of the joint committees - in print No 652. The first reading of the government project took place at the meeting of the Sejm on 17 September this year, while detailed work on the project after the first reading was carried out by the subcommittee set up by both committees, which I had the honour of chairing. The report of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government in print No 652 was adopted on 6 October by 48 votes in favour, with one vote against and one abstention. Today I have the honour to present them to the High House. High Izbo! Due to the complex nature of the problems posed by the bill, the solutions submitted include all basic laws for social housing, including municipal housing, in Poland, and the project introduces amendments to 23 laws. Improving the availability of housing by stimulating new housing investments in the rental market is one of the priorities of the State's housing policy. Investment in relatively low rent housing with the involvement of municipalities has a particular role to play. In view of the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy, the importance of housing-enhancing measures is also increasing. High Izbo! Changes in the field of social housing - I remind you that in the project mainly refer to the Act of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of housing promotion, to which the amendment contains an article. 7 projects, but not only - changes in this sphere are among others. the introduction of a new name: social housing initiatives, i.e. SIMs, for social construction operators, but existing TBSs will be able to use the current name and act on existing principles. Secondly, these are higher grants from the Payment Fund in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the participation in the construction, among others. by SIMs, i.e. TBSs, low rent apartments - and that is to increase the support from 20% of investment costs to up to 35%. A very important instrument to support the establishment of SIM, TBS - for this purpose it is created - is the Government Housing Development Fund, which is powered by PLN 1.5 billion from the already operating Anti-Action Fund COVID-19. This is a very important form of support. There is also flexibility in the rules on rents when TBS invests in renewable energy sources, in thermomodernisation, in improving accessibility for seniors and disabled people. We are also dealing with rental vacations for tenants in SIMs, TBSs, up to 20% lower rent after payment of the loan by SIM. In the case of the construction by SIM of apartments with a higher share of the tenant's costs in the building of the premises, it will be possible to change the lease contract with access to the property, i.e. to acquire ownership over the years. Another instrument is renovation bonuses in SIM buildings, TBS, for buildings older than 25 years old, because the rules so far speak of nearly 60-year-old buildings, as well as rent subsidies in the program High Izbo! Changes in municipal construction and in the programme against the effects of the homelessness crisis, which are mainly covered by the Law of 8 December 2006 on financial support for the creation of social housing - Article. 14 of this project. These are, among other things. increase and harmonise the amount of financial support provided under the Act - as an incentive for municipalities to decide on the implementation of housing investments; that is to say increase the funding according to the type of activity up to 35%, 50% or even 80%. This is - in detail - an amendment to the 15th article. 14. This is also the introduction of the possibility of providing financial support from the Fund for projects consisting in the renovation of inhabited dwellings to local authorities, which carry out projects with the participation of renovation premiums. This is an increase in expenditure on renovation of an existing municipal resource, which is not inhabited due to bad technical condition. This is to harmonise the catalogue of eligible costs with the catalogue of costs in the social housing programme, i.e. to include e.g. construction of garages, weapons networks. This is particularly important because of the possibility of pooling funds from the social and municipal housing programme. It is also an extension (the bell) of a group of entities that can apply for financial support, and financing common areas for seniors that will serve to satisfy... Mr. Marshal, I'd like another minute, because I have a lot of changes to discuss. I think it will be important for many people. 26 substantive amendments were introduced in the subcommittee at the stage of work. The most important issue is the transfer of amendments to the Act of 13 February 2020 amending the Construction Law, which were included in the article. 21 Government submission, to Article. 6, which contains amendments to the Act - Construction Law. The reason is that when the first reading of the project was completed, the Act of 13 February came into force, it was exactly 19 September, and it was necessary to refer directly to the Construction Law for better legibility and ease of application of the provisions in question. In addition, amendments to the Construction Law, which were adopted both at the stage of the subcommittee's work and later during the work of the Joint Committee, introduce the possibility of electronic submission of applications in the following building law procedures: declaration of works (except for those notifications to which the project must be attached), application for demolition permit, declaration of demolition, request for transfer of a building permit decision, request for transfer of a permit decision for the renewal of works, application for transfer of rights and obligations resulting from the notification, notification of the intended date of commencement of works, application for a decision on the necessity of entering the neighbouring building, premises or the area of the neighbouring property, notification of a change of the use of the building or parts thereof. For the electronic circulation of documents in these proceedings, which I am talking about, in these nine proceedings, a 30-day vacathio legis will be introduced. On the other hand, as regards the further extension of the list of procedures that will be possible on the Internet - and in the age of COVID this is of great importance for general security - there will be further procedures which will need to be submitted electronically. Such procedures which require the submission of an application in electronic form are: an application for a building permit, an application for a modification of a building permit, an application for a temporary building permit, an application for a simplified legalisation procedure and other similar procedures. For these proceedings, which will require an electronic application, there will be a 6-month vacathio legis so that the competent authorities of the architectural and construction administration can properly prepare to conduct the proceedings in such an electronic manner. High Izbo! At the stage of work, 14 amendments were also introduced in the joint committees. In addition to those to the Construction Law discussed in detail, I will not discuss, I will mention just one more, amendment to the Act of 2 March 2020, the COVID Act, to the article. 15jca. These are the three amendments which introduce a mechanism allowing entrepreneurs who have suffered the adverse economic impact of the pandemic, a reduction in the annual fee for perpetual use for 2020 in proportion to the duration of this cessation of activities as a result of the pandemic, and where the trader has already paid a full fee in advance, the possibility to settle the excess of this levy in the 2021 levy, with a reduction in the charge for 2020 being already notified to the European Commission as permitted public aid under the COVID conditions and a reduction in the charge for the next year is planned to be notified. Due to the thinness of time, more amendments will not be reported here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Infrastructure and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, please adopt the law contained in the committee's report in print No 652. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u192	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will speak again by Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of my club, I have the honour of saying a few more words about the bill presented just a moment ago. I will say that the proposed package has been prepared in line with the direction of the housing policy pursued, for which a strategic reference is adopted by the government in 2016, the National Housing Programme, and the proposed solutions complement the legislative measures already taken, which relate to the expansion of the rent segment. Investment is particularly important in this respect, which increases housing stock with relatively low rents, undertaken with the involvement of municipalities. High Izbo! The stimulation of new housing investments through the use of financial support instruments also complements the important social impact in this case. The result is a better quantitatively and qualitatively resource of apartments for rent directed to low- and medium-sized farms. The project was also supplemented by a draft law amending the State Aid Act in the repayment of certain housing loans, granting guarantee premiums and reimbursement of guarantee premiums paid to banks and certain other laws. Its aim is to finalise the guarantee premium refund scheme by extending the catalogue of activities for which premium payments can be applied and by introducing a mechanism for registering housing books. As for social housing, I already said this in my previous speech, and I will not repeat it. I just want to stress how important a tool to stimulate community activity in the residential sphere is to support the establishment of SIM, TBS and this 1.5-billion-dollar fund, the Government Housing Development Fund. This is a very important instrument for creating housing policy. High Izbo! I would like to say a few sentences about the "Setting-up" programme, because within this framework the project also works. These provisions extend the scope of individual support provided in the form of rent subsidies in the scheme to start-up renters, i.e. if the sub-rental is a municipality that rents apartments built on the basis of the scheme directly from the investor, as well as the extension to tenants of apartments located in renovated buildings and located outside the area of the special revitalization zone. The new action is also to include the owners of housing books in the priority criteria in the selection process for the start-up accommodation programme. As regards the provisions relating to the National Property Resource, the Social Fund of the Housing Initiative is set up under the KZN Fund, and the funds from this fund will come from the management of property, mainly from the sale, distribution in perpetual use or lease of real estate which are located in the KZN resource. The fund will be used to create social housing initiatives, to include participations in SIMs or TBSs by KZN. National Property Resources will be able to create SIMs, TBSs and join existing ones. That's not an option at the moment. The Article is also repealed. 62a, which provided that in the event of the sale by KZN of real estate transferred to the stock by KOWR or the KZN Military Property Agency, the KZN paid 90% compensation to these entities income derived from this property. It should be pointed out that to the social development fund of the rent building KZN will transfer 60% revenue from the sale of property and 20% the revenue generated by interest or other sources, so these measures will be directed in a different way. High Izbo! As regards the housing allowance system, there is a simplification in determining the applicant's income, excluding housing allowances from chamber executions, harmonising the definition of income, so that for different housing legislation there is a single definition, the adoption of an average remuneration in the national economy as a basis for determining the income threshold for determining the right to the allowance and increasing the protection of personal data, including sensitive data, of persons receiving the housing allowance. As regards the new forms of financial support for households, I would like to say about the housing subsidies that will be available to tenants and sub-tenants of dwellings, the rent subsidies, which will amount to a maximum of PLN 1500 per month and can be paid for a period of up to 6 months. I would like to remind you that applications for aid may be submitted by the end of this year. High Izbo! This law contains a number of instruments (The Bell) whose action will be as positive as possible in terms of the housing situation of Poles, which is why I declare on behalf of my club that we will of course vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u194	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u195	Your Marshal... Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents an opinion on the draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. We all support the construction of apartments for Poles, because housing is a basic good, but housing policy is not the success of this government, it is a failure, contrary to what my previous speaker said. You can say a hundred times that living on the start is a success, that Living+ is a success, and residents, Poles still know that it is a great, great failure. You're just whispering reality. Today we are looking at another project on subsequent changes, this time changes of more than 20 normative acts, including the National Property Resources Act, which was also not a success, but rather a failure. It's only a pity for the people who believed you and were hoping for a place to live. You tricked them. It's a negative apartment, not a plus. Now we're revisiting the changes in this flagship PiS project. We also change the building law again, but not for the better. In the field of Construction Law, the government introduces either the legalization of lawlessness - which was in March - that is to say, the self-confidence of construction, or the exclusion of construction law for half a year, resulting in illegal settlements by the sea, Kosakowo, Mechelinka, or in the campino reserve, with the grubbing up of this beautiful forest. Well done, but successful. Prime Minister Morawiecki promised that by the end of 2019 100 thousand would be created. Low-cost apartments. Where are they? You have closed a very popular program of living for young people and replaced it with your start-up program that doesn't work. I understand that everything that was good for the previous government is measuring you, but it is a pity that the continuation of our housing programs has been abandoned, because this gave 1.2 million apartments in 2008 and 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, housing policy should be extra-cadence, because only then does it give a real increase in the number of apartments. I am pleased that in this project you are introducing the changes we are proposing regarding the digitalisation of the investment process. This is the implementation of our amendments to the previous amendment to the Construction Law. Then there was total criticism on your part, and now you're introducing it as your own. Never mind. The important thing is that the law will be better for people. It is also a good solution to strengthen the position of tenants, as we have also sought, in relation to their boards. In the project you create a KZN super developer with our, i.e. the Treasury, free territories, giving these land to companies, also private, of course, after being considered, because without criteria. Communion, come back. For the Polish People's Republic, this program turned out to be a disaster, and now you're introducing it? In addition, there is no record that KZN, when selling land, can spend money for it only for housing purposes. Bravo, clean business. KZN should be able to create companies only for the purpose of building cheap apartments, because - with the help of our land. The assumptions of this bill also consume some of our comments and demands on increasing the participation of municipalities in the implementation of cheap apartments. The project assumes the establishment of the Government Housing Development Fund with a budget of PLN 1.5 billion for the construction of cheap housing by municipalities, only that in the absence of clear rules for the allocation of these funds by the Minister they will be transferred to obedient authorities. In line with our demands, you introduce the possibility of joining KZN to TBS or electronic documents during the entire design process, especially for construction surveillance. We have called for this and it is good that - although after a long time - you agreed with this because most developers in Europe are already designing on electronic multi-branch models. The project also provides for rent subsidies for people who have lost their jobs by COVID. Very good. But why is it that institutional leases are not removed with the need to sign a notarial act on voluntary emptying of premises in case of late payment? After all, it's homelessness+, it's the possibility of throwing people out on the street without providing a social establishment, and during the pandemic, it's easy to fall into rent arrears. The Act provides for the creation of new TBSs, but they are to be called: Social Housing Initiatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The change only applies to the name, probably only so that the government can boast that it has introduced something new that works, because TBS is actually working well, but it will only bring chaos. However, we are voting in favour because, as an opposition, we support any step that can increase the number of apartments. We're giving it a chance, and we're finally hoping for success, because living is a basic good. I am making amendments to this law on behalf of the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u196	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mrs Karolina Pavliczak to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before referring to this bill, I would like to pass on to all women, all families fighting on the streets of Poland today, also in my district, in Kalisz, Leszno, Ostrów Wielkopolski, Krotoszyn, Pleszewo, Jarocin, big and smaller cities, that we are with you and you will never go alone, dear women. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this bill: more than 650 thousand are missing in Poland. Apartments, and incredibly lives up to 1,700 thousand. Poles. We have no apartments, although the apartments are built. But who can afford them? In this context, the saddest thing is that I thought, with such an important assumption, from the substance and expected by the municipalities and the public, that the law on housing support will finally be able to work without politics, without pushing each other into words and content, which are more important and will have the support of the rulers. These were false hopes, even though the Left wants to support this law, because we realise that together with our amendments, which we have made and which were intended to improve it, mostly the individual provisions of this law serve to support housing and social construction. However, we had a deluded, naive hope that, with the often repeated last words of the Prime Minister on agreement, compromise with opposition and seeking consent, we would encounter a shadow of these announcements. That's not gonna happen. And the subcommittee, and the committees that were discussing this project, revealed that one option is right, the rest of us can have a colloquially chat. What's wrong with wanting, for example? increase the average monthly income in single and multi-member households, since the number of persons eligible for these allowances is clearly decreasing on your assumption? It is crazy to base the aid criterion on an average remuneration which, in the light of the crisis, will fall significantly, thus excluding the needy. What's wrong is that we want to increase the area of the premises if there's a disabled person living in a wheelchair, with 15 m I believe that the name itself - the social housing initiative - carries a division into better and worse, and those which do not change that name will be profiled as the hostile ones of the previous system, in which certain preferences may simply not benefit. But if you think that changing the name doesn't change the organizational structure, then why? Why change it and bear enormous public costs? There is no logical justification in this action. Ladies and gentlemen! Apartments, health and work are among the most important values. Don't give everything your political passion, because it brings what today's street and people's way out to protest and shout out loud as a sign of protest and opposition. Finally, I ask you that this law on the assumptions supporting the development of housing should not meet the fate of the government's housing+ programme, from which practically nothing is left and which unfortunately is a great shame today, a sign of the incompetence of the rulers. The left makes an amendment to this draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u199	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 on the government bill amending certain laws supporting the development of housing, prints no. 534 and 652. Dear rulers, you build sand castles, not get into housing because you behave like children in a sandbox. Another project, another vision, how many apartments will be built, what resources you've raised: and the money, and the land you need to build for it. We are all well aware that the construction industry, despite the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, is to be the flywheel of the Polish economy. Only what's happened so far convinces us that you can't do it. There were plans to build thousands of apartments. The apartment+ has turned out to be unexploded. The other programs you've been offering are also in their infancy. Don't tell me something's gonna change today. Of course, if you put the local government on it, it might work. I know examples of small local governments who have dealt with this problem a long time ago. They've set up communal companies that build apartments with little rent. With little money, young people can buy an apartment. Of course, for those who cannot afford to buy, it is important that these rental apartments be built. But this series of facilitations you're talking about is not going to be so easy to implement. The fact that you're changing your name today is another example of you putting old programs in new boxes, promising new quality, new values. Turns out it doesn't change anything. In this case, I guess, nothing's gonna change either. As far as resources are concerned, it is easy to juggle this land between State Treasury companies and government institutions. Whether it's a stock of State Forests, whether you hand it over to the National Property Resource, whether it's owned by KOWR or other institutions under the government. This can be passed on, only from this transfer will not increase the number of apartments in our country. Of course, the combined committees of infrastructure and local government accepted all these proposed amendments, the 14 amendments that you tabled, because we understand that this is the right thing to do. It is better to start now and build these apartments, but we also need to speed up procedures, we need to digitize everything, because we already see how long the COVID procedures are going on in offices. The normal thing is that everything possible can be digitized to do and accelerate, because investors don't want to wait either. If we are talking about these issues, that the money that investors have paid in 2020 must, of course, be transferred to 2021 under the title of perpetual use. The point is that entrepreneurs who pay such a fee should not feel any further problems today. ♪ We'll support you as a club ♪ Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 these amendments that have been introduced, because we want young people to finally be able to count on these apartments, which you so often talk about at meetings, only reality is completely different. And this is best seen in the field, in conversations with local authorities, with the authorities, with the mayors of small municipalities, especially urban-rural and rural communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u200	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to present his position as the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's morning events may appear to be a very intense cultural, civilizational dispute in this Chamber, a dispute about the value of the underlying elements, but the truth is that 95% of the cases concerning the extent to which the State's involvement in economic activity, in the activities of citizens, in the activities of society, the State in this Chamber is in full agreement. Maybe these differences are very cosmetic. For example, a health care system. And the state, and the state, and the state agree that this state, i.e. officials, politicians, is to take money and then give it, distribute it, decide whether to give more to oncology or more to such a specialization, for which citizens are to be treated. The second example, the education system. And the state, and the state, and the state also agree that it is necessary to take citizens, then through local governments to give schools, to determine the salaries of teachers. Of course, the differences are cosmetic when it comes to what percentage of GDP you give for the health care system, the list of school readings, but these are details. You agree that the state, i.e. officials, politicians, decides absolutely everything, without the control of citizens, without competition on the free market, so that all this will work. You agree, for example. about gastronomy. Although, no, the gastronomy, fortunately, you left it. That's what keeps people from starving. But there have already been temptations to nationalize the food industry. This, unfortunately, is the case with a different need of man, namely the need to have an apartment, a place, a very important need. Instead of leaving these 40% to the citizens their salary in the pocket, instead of downloading an additional 23% VAT, excise duty, real estate tax, the state decides to collect in taxes and then kindly help citizens to acquire their own apartment or rent. And so over the years, these housing programs have been huge. Under the Left, there were TBSs, surprisingly the most free market program. In 2006 there was a family programme on its own, called the developer on its own. Behind the Platforms was the apartment for young people, the same program, just changed the name a little bit. And the most socialist program of living +, a total misfire, because suddenly it turned out that housing officials can't build, they don't know how to do it. This direction, which you've all been taking for years, is a very bad direction. What's the problem with apartments? The problem is that people just can't afford to rent, buy or borrow, because they pay too much in taxes, too much of what they earn, is taken away from them. That's why young people can't afford apartments. If you hadn't taken it... Instead of encouraging young people to buy a new apartment, so that the developer earns money instead of constantly building these new apartments, it would be possible to encourage them to buy an apartment on the secondary market, for example. on credit or e.g. for rent. That's what young people would be able to afford. Young people are more interested in e.g. They'd start families. Your pension system makes it impossible for anyone to start a family - it's just a cost. It is not only that we pay our contributions to the pension system for which the neighbor's children will be made, but we still have to pay on an ongoing basis for the maintenance of our children, knowing that these children in the future will pay their pension not only to our neighbour. This is the tragedy of a common pasture. We have more views of the housing programs here. Of course, they will turn out to be a misfire - bigger or smaller - these are just the details that you are arguing about. But to discuss whether to abolish the income tax or to leave the 40% In the pockets of the citizens, that, I see, no one here is willing. Let's keep arguing about the details. I'm sure the citizens will think we're so diametrically different in everything. The state is in favour of the so-called. a state of prosperity - ironically called a state of prosperity - a welfare state. In fact, it is a very inefficient country, a country that has no mechanisms for improving certain spheres of socio-economic life, because it is centrally controlled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members who are enrolled in the task of questions consists of 17 persons. If any of you would like to join us again, you're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. At the same time, I set the time to ask a question - 1 minute. I am the first I ask of Mrs Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! They couldn't make it. Minister Adamczyk couldn't do it, Minister Smolinski couldn't do it, Minister Soboń couldn't do it, Minister Nowicki probably couldn't. There were assumptions, there were deadlines, there were promises. It was supposed to be cheap, fast, much - neither cheap, nor fast, nor much. From the assumptions, there's a substitute. By 2030 there would be 435 apartments per 1000 inhabitants. That means you'd have to build 200,000. apartments per year. What they were able to build - and not with their hands - is 2,000. apartments per year for the last years. You can't, it's a lot, it's not enough. And the money went, among other things. for the ever-growing new creations. Such an example is the company Polskie Domy Drewniane. They spent half a billion zlotys. For what? Probably on his salary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They didn't build a single apartment. I'd like to keep my fingers crossed, and I'm gonna keep them warm, but I'm afraid they're not gonna make it again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u204	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The apartment is still a luxury commodity. As you know, its price may vary depending on the city, but everywhere is very high. Many young people had hoped for the government's noisy housing+ programme. Unfortunately, the program failed, it turned out to be a failure of the government. It is carried out only in commercial form, with a minimum share of the State. It was replaced by a program of living for development. In view of the above, please answer the question: How is the implementation of the scheme going? What municipalities have so far started investments under this scheme? How many of these apartments are going to be locked up by the end of this year? What towns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u206	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act provides for a payment mechanism, inter alia. for modernization of buildings, modernization of tenements. Once these payments were also possible, but only after the removal of tenants on request or in accordance with the decision of the district building supervisor. At the request of local authorities, among others. Knowledge, which runs a very wide programme of such works, is planned next year to allocate PLN 164 million for this purpose. The Ministry allowed the use of these subsidies even in the case of tenement houses from which the tenants were not removed - the payment would only apply to the vacant premises. We requested that this surcharge be applied to the entire building so that there would be no need to get tenants out of it. I wanted to ask you whether this proposal will be or has already been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u208	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition. And Rutka? Marcus Rutka was here earlier. Excuse me. The Member is coming, then maybe the Member will come later. You're welcome, my fellow Member, and I apologize. You want me to go? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you why, in a pandemic, in such an increase in disease, you don't want to help people? You didn't support our amendment to take people out on the street. It is about the need to sign a notarial act on voluntary emptying of premises in case of late payment. I mean, it's homeless plus. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS government, it's an opportunity to throw people out on the street without providing a social establishment, and during the pandemic, it's easy to fall into rent arrears. However, in this draft law you introduce various regulations from the Polish People's Republic, which proved to be a complete failure, or regulations from the PiS program from 4 years ago, which, as we know, are also a complete failure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u210	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u211	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If there was a law at this meeting of the Sejm, which could give Polish families something better, more births or children, it would be this law if it were implemented. Indeed, nothing is so lacking for Poles to start large families with children, if they wanted to, than just apartments. I just wanted to ask you one thing: Is that really the bill? She's good, of course she could be better. The housing problem was between the Ministry of Infrastructure, KZN, BKGN and PFRN. We're leaving the Deputy Minister again at the Ministry of Development. I just wanted to ask who's going to implement this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u212	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First to Marshal Terletki - lightning on our masks is not a fascist sign. This is a symbol that appears on energy devices. I'm saying this as an energy engineer who's seen hundreds of these devices. Therefore, I'm asking the marshal not to exaggerate with his grades. [[Applause]] Another thing - in this discussion there are issues concerning the construction of apartments, the number of apartments built, the return to the PRL system. So I would like to say to the High House - because maybe this knowledge is not widely known - that most of the apartments in Poland were built in 1978.283 thousand. apartments. Today we have a situation that lacks housing. My question is whether this law - in addition to the financial resources that are foreseen for these famous SIMs - secures issues related to the armament of land, the delivery of media, with all these costs (the Bell), which are very important for the construction of the dwellings themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Boj, the Left, will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very concerned about this programme, although I would like young people to finally have access to cheap, comfortable, safe apartments. I'm afraid that when this project comes into force, there will be problems with its implementation. For example, because, according to the draft law, these basic parts of the sub-lease agreement are to include municipalities. I am concerned that again, once again, it is the commune that translates the realization burden of such an important investment, housing project. As there are certain doubts that there are good odds... - you point to the aid scheme - I have one request: that, until now, the development of housing should be emphasized by a thick line (the bell) and summed it up thoroughly, so that the new hand with the new law simply has new values and represents your work in the past and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u216	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. This is Mr Mark Dyduch, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of people don't know why the Soviet Union was called the Radian Country. Well, they advised, advised, advised, how to build socialism, that it fell apart. We're the same with housing. Instead of building apartments we have a program after the program: We don't know what to do with it, either, so it doesn't blow up. The essence of building apartments is to build symmetrically and deploy it evenly. At the moment, the construction of apartments takes place mainly in large cities and is very expensive. We do not build in small and medium-sized municipalities, and no programme does not respond to this in actions. And those people out there aren't stupid! They can build, but they need to create real conditions. I wanted to ask you how many apartments have been given up in small and medium-sized municipalities over the last 10 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u218	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u219	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, before I get to the point, I would like to refer to what Marshal Terlecki said today. Well, he was comparing the symbol of lightning... He aligned it with some fascist ideology. In the meantime, this symbol is also a symbol of Polish troops, Polish communications troops. Today, when the Marshal of the Polish Sejm claims that this sign is related to fascism, it also strikes soldiers of the Polish Army. He should stand here, apologize to the soldiers for such a comparison, for such a blow and call off these disgraceful words. [[Applause]] You should apologize to the Poles for... On the other hand, the PiS struggles with the housing program could be filmed either a comedy or a tragedy. First of all, because five years of struggle didn't work. Secondly, because the government's own experts (the bell) levelled the assumptions of this programme to the ground and found that both the implementation and the assumptions themselves were simply unrealistic. In 2019, apartments were built at a revolutionary rate of 10 per month. If the government promised 100,000. apartments, it is enough that each of us will do a simple action to see in which perspective they will be built. But I have a question. Mr. Marshal, thank you for the opportunity of his task. Well, I would very much ask the Minister to answer how many apartments will be built in 2021 in connection with the vote of a possible law. I ask you to answer in writing because we will certainly settle the government with this promise at the end of 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal, for your special kindness. Very nice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u220	I ask you to ask Mr. Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The housing market needs backup. The PiS policy so far, in general, I am referring to Prime Minister Morawiecki said that by 2019 it will be 100,000. apartments. Today is the question of a new program. Who's gonna be responsible for this program? For today there is such a cast for the government that we do not know whether anyone will be responsible for this program, and unfortunately I have such misconceptions that it will end in the same way as the apartment+ programme ended. And one last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, there was our young people's apartment program. He had his successes. This program had to be strengthened, not completely thrown out and put a new one without any prospects. I have one piece of advice for you, first of all, if you want this bill to make sense, you have to do a few things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, 10 seconds. First, accept the opposition's amendments. Secondly, include local governments. And thirdly, introduce reliefs, real tax reliefs for those who want to build apartments on their own account and with their own money. Otherwise, this bill will only be a propaganda bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u222	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs Sibińska said today that other ministers were unable to build, but, apparently, from all figures, they managed to spend money. They were able to spend public money on anything, just not on what was needed in these programs. I therefore have a question and ask for a written reply: How much money has been spent from the state budget over the years on the company's national programme or public institutions? Second question: Is your policy only to destroy existing systems in order to create new ones to split positions and to earn only 2,000 over the years. built apartments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u224	Thank you very much. A list of Members registered... Ah, Mr Rychlik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the main brake on the development of Polish families is the lack of housing. Accommodation+, the programme of the Government of Law and Justice, is a project that has created thousands of apartments. Many local governments such as Kępno and Łowicz benefited from this program. But there were also local governments who didn't take advantage of this opportunity. I mean my native Wieluń. So that, ladies and gentlemen, the allegations that more housing should be built, that these apartments are not built, should also be addressed to local government officials, very often mayors, presidents from the Civic Platform. Minister! I wanted to ask you about the situation in your relationship with the President of Warsaw, President of Łódź, President of Gdańsk, President of Krakow. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or Poznan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u226	Thank you very much. And I would like to inform you that the list of Members of Questions has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Andrzej Gut-Mostowy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to disagree with many skeptical opinions about this law. I wanted to start by pointing out that I'm not going to refer to many different aspects concerning the entire housing system in Poland or the situation on the housing market, only to the matter of this law, due to the lack of time, but also to the fact that we will continue to work on this law. The law is needed, it is a response to the needs of local governments, to the needs of Poles and to the process of investigating it during the subcommittee meetings was very constructive and I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the law has been significantly improved. Referring to the questions raised by your Members: First of all, we believe that the construction issue will continue in the Ministry of Development, so any insinuations or comments that construction with the whole housing market will be somewhere in another ministry are wrong. This scope of activity of the Ministry of Development is continued. As far as the question on tenants is concerned, it is only a remark that apartments with tenants cannot be renovated, so certain provisions must be flexible in this situation. The question of Mrs Gill-Friday, who will carry out all these tasks. I have already answered that the Ministry of Development will carry out the construction of housing in Poland further in its competence. With regard to matters raised by Mr Wieczorek, whether the Law protects land weapons - the provisions of the Act give the National Property Resource a great opportunity, which will also be able to ensure that land weapons together with local governments are developed within its competence. As we stress, this law is an answer and an increase in the amount of grants for local governments is a response to the needs of local governments. We give local governments large instruments to create and develop housing in Poland, in accordance with their local policy, of course. This is also the answer to Mr Buż's question - we believe that local governments should definitely have large instruments and opportunities to participate in the development of housing in Poland. To Mr Dyduch's question, how many apartments have been given in small and medium-sized municipalities, we will allow ourselves to answer in writing as we do not have precise data now. Mr Suchon's question was how many apartments we would give back in 2020. The construction process itself, the Members themselves know, lasts three to four years, so we are not so optimistic as to believe that in 2020, as a result of this law, some housing has been given over, but we hope that this will give rise to a significant boost in terms of increasing the number of investments started in the sense of design, but also investment. Mrs Janyska, of course, we will reply in writing. We will also answer the other questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u228	Thank you very much. Now I would ask the rapporteur of the committee to speak, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There were a lot of questions and comments here. I'd like to refer to some. Namely we heard a moment ago that the increase in the participation of municipalities in the construction of apartments was a postulate of the Civic Platform. Well, I would like to remind you of the law, which is also the subject of action in this project, the Act of 8 December 2006 on financial support for the creation of social housing, housing for rent, etc. This is a bill that has been converted for the first government of law and justice. It was an extension of a helping hand and support to the municipalities to present an apartment offer not only in large cities, but also in smaller towns or on the so-called. Provinces. All of these solutions were open to the government of PO-PSL and somehow there was no action. On the contrary. The Dollar Fund was liquidated in 2009 and the post-stage phase of the family programme was closed, first the second segment from the secondary market, which was particularly handy for young families, then the primary market segment. So I would really appeal for peace of mind in the discussion, because despite some emotions during the work of the subcommittee and committee, there were some things that could be discussed. As for Mrs Pavliczak's demands for raising the parameters for disabled people, Mrs Pavliczak, we have discussed this issue several times. We cannot prejudice things that are within the competence of the municipalities' councils. It is the municipalities' councils that have their own housing policy, and if we raise certain parameters, we would have to compensate the municipalities. You know that very well. If the government wants to, it will be able to make such decisions. So, in general, many of these discussions have already been. Thank you for these discussions. Thank you for your constructive participation in the work, after all. Ladies and gentlemen, the housing problem is the problem of all Poles, and all of us, regardless of the differences and regardless of the fever that you are causing in the streets of Polish cities, the Member State of the opposition, by lying to the young generation, regardless of this fever, should focus on our work, which is our duty, and we should take care of the housing policy. I am convinced that this law, which complements the range of instruments that the State operates on the housing market, will contribute to increasing the supply of housing, where it will be possible to bear costs for the average Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on the organisation of livestock farming and distribution (prints 512 and 660). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding, prints 512 and 660. The Commission examined the draft law at its meeting on 7 October 2020. The proposed draft is intended to replace the current law of 29 June 2007. The current law regulates livestock breeding and breeding in a comprehensive manner and complies with European Union legislation. However, the entry into force of Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 and the accompanying amendments to a number of legal acts forced the need to adapt the current Polish legislation on zootechnics. That Regulation shall apply from 1 November 2018. This regulation has resulted in the repeal of most of the existing European Union legislation on zootechnics, which has been implemented in the current law. Leaving the existing provisions of the Act in view of the direct effects of the application of a regulation prior to the law would result in a conflict. Given the size of the changes, a new law must be adopted. The draft agrees with the provisions of the regulation relating to species such as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae with the provisions of our Act, which additionally regulates the organisation of breeding and breeding in respect of other livestock species such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer. In addition, in line with the demands of breeders, it is proposed to supplement the list of livestock with alpaca and mulberry silks. The main changes that will ensure the correct application of Regulation 2016/1012 will include: firstly, the elimination from Polish legislation of rules on the keeping of breeding books and breeding registers, rules on the entry of animals in those books and registers, rules on performance and genetic evaluation, the requirements of purely racial breeding animals used for breeding and breeding, the marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and their biological material intended for use in reproduction, and the manner in which official controls are to be carried out on animals of species such as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae - those matters have been regulated in the said Regulation, which is applied directly; secondly, the indication of the authorities and institutions to which the powers and powers laid down in the Regulation will be conferred on the territory of the Republic of Poland - namely the Minister responsible for Agriculture and the National Centre for Animal Breeding; thirdly, the introduction, on the basis of the rules currently in force concerning the keeping of breeding books and records, the conduct of performance and genetic values and the requirements of animals placed on the territory of animals used for breeding, the establishment of the natural resources and the authorisation of the animals to carry out of the natural resources in the records. The process of the draft law in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place in an atmosphere of favor and acceptance for the project. The comments were legislative and editorial in nature. The Commission adopted the proposal with no votes against. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request the support of the High House for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law that we are discussing, print no. 512. The proposed bill results from the need to adapt the current Polish legislation on zootechnics to the regulation of the European Union. This has already been presented in the committee's report. As a law and justice club, we see the need to adopt a new law. This regulation has resulted in the repeal of most of the existing European Union legislation on zootechnics, which has been implemented in the current law. Leaving the existing provisions of the Act in view of the direct effects of the application of a regulation prior to the law would result in a conflict of our laws with the EU. All Member States are required to introduce the provisions implementing this Regulation in accordance with their constitutional arrangements. The draft agrees with the provisions of the regulation relating to species such as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae with the provisions of our Act, which additionally regulates the organisation of breeding and breeding in respect of other livestock species such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer. In addition, in line with the demands of breeders, it is proposed to supplement the list of livestock with alpaca and mulberry silks. As defined, animal breeding is a set of treatments aimed at improving hereditary assumptions, the genotyping of livestock, which includes performance assessment, genetic evaluation of livestock, selection and selection of animals to be associated under normal farming conditions. We consider the bill presented to be a good tool, more efficient than before, which will meet the objective of adapting to EU legislation and will ensure continuity of livestock farming, keeping livestock books and registers and assessing the performance and genetic value of animals. It will also ensure an objective, transparent and independent assessment of the genetic value of animals. In our view, the Act will ensure the implementation of breeding programmes for particular species and breeds, will ensure the development of the use of animals based on the selection of breeding animals with the best characteristics. At the same time, let us keep in mind the conservation of genetic resources of native races. And here I would like to mention, for example, the Polish breed: red, red and white, black and white - in the case of cattle, the Puławy breed, formerly called the pigeon breed - in the case of pigs, the heather sheep and the pig, the Polish mountain sheep colored variety, the merynosa colored variety, the Carpathian breed of goats and a number of others. This is a great role in the protection of specific livestock populations and the implementation of genetic resources conservation programmes of the Institute of State Research Institute in Cracow. In view of the above considerations, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed project. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I would like to make three amendments to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u234	Thank you very much, sir. I am asking Mr Piotr Boris, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club on the Act on the Organisation of Farming and Animal Breeding, which is to replace the current Act on the Organisation of Animal Breeding. That law is required in view of the amendments resulting from European Union zootechnics legislation which entered into force as a result of the entry into force of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016, which lays down in principle the zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and hybrid breeding pigs in the territory of the European Union and the trade in their germinal products. The law was widely consulted, passed the entire system of opinions. In fact, all parties were given the opportunity to comment on their comments, some of which were taken into account. The law has been further notified to the European Commission, which is an important and essential element. It is surprising that, as a result of certain actions, this law was withdrawn at the end of its term of office and entered into force almost a year later. We don't understand, Minister, delays. I would ask for an answer, from where I kept the bill for a year, which went through the whole consultation system. Did you just run out of time for that? We consider that in the territory of the Republic of Poland as a result of the entry into force of the rules of the Union official control within the meaning of Article. 2 of the Regulation will constitute the National Animal Breeding Centre. At the committee meeting, we asked - and we made reasonable amendments as a result - whether the National Animal Breeding Centre was actually fully equipped as regards the financial issue. As regards matters arising from the control elements, the National Animal Breeding Centre will, as previously, carry out the entire control system for keeping breeding books, breeding records for pigs and records for other livestock, performance and genealogical evaluation, so this continuation of work will be fully justified. As Poland became a party to the Convention on Biological Diversity and Biodiversity in 1992, it is important what is included in the article. 34 draft law to ensure that a given animal breed or breeding line of bees or a poultry family is considered to be endangered and protected by genetic resources. The important role of the Institute of Zootechnics of the State Research Institute in Krakow - this is also what we asked about. We have made some suggestions for amendments, because the whole part of the Act concerns legislation on equidae, which is complementary to that provided for e.g. the organisation of horse competitions, so that there are no differences between horses originating in the territories of the Republic of Poland and the European Union as regards the issue of equal treatment in the system of admission of horses to the professions, as well as the system of prizes. Here we have asked for suitable vacathio legis, so that these provisions, which result from the obligation to notify certain professions by the end of October, may be extended for the next year, because the law will probably enter into force at the beginning of the year. The point is that this record simply should not be a record that would hinder the possibility of organizing competitions. Thus, the bill will gain our support taking into account some of the technical amendments that we have asked for in committee. It is an important law which, in a complementary and uniform manner, regulates the principles of breeding and breeding of farmed animals in Poland, and allows all our producers to extend the possibility of breeding also outside the Republic, so we count on it to be adopted and to include our amendments tabled in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u236	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Marcin Kulask, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This submission is a government draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. This project includes all existing arrangements for carrying out performance and breeding evaluation, breeding books and hybrid registers and State control of this activity. The draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding is intended to replace the current law of 29 June 2007 on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. This law regulates the breeding and breeding of all livestock in a comprehensive manner. The need for a new regulation arises from legislative changes at European level, notably the adoption of Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and hybrid breeding pigs within the Union and the trade in and introduction into the Union of their biological material used for breeding. The European Union Regulation 2016/1012 entered into force on 1 November 2018. As this Regulation applies directly in the Member States, it was necessary to amend the 2007 Act. In addition, in line with the demands of breeders, the list of farms, livestock with alpaca and mulberry silks has been supplemented in order to allow the breeding of these species to be carried out in a manner so far appropriate to the livestock referred to in the Act of 29 June 2007 on the organisation of breeding and breeding of farmed animals. The work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place in an atmosphere of cross-party consensus. All the doubts raised by me at first reading were resolved in the discussion. They concerned the reporting of horse-riding and technical aspects of the keeping of breeding books. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Coalition Club of the Left will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u238	Thank you very much, sir. Now, please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law on livestock breeding and breeding, prints no. 512 and 660. Today's project involves a number of important changes in breeding, genetic evaluation, as well as the surveillance of livestock reproduction. It therefore replaces the current law of 29 June 2007 on the organisation of livestock farming and breeding. The purpose of the new regulations is to implement the solutions adopted in the European Union in the above mentioned Polish legal order. the field governed by Regulation (EU) 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 The draft law comprehensively regulates matters in the field of: firstly, breeding performance evaluation and genetic evaluation, secondly, keeping breeding books, breeding records for pigs and registers for other livestock, conservation of genetic resources and supervision of breeding and breeding of all livestock species. The introduction of new rules will ensure continuity in the introduction of farming. It is extremely important to include, in addition to the farming species referred to in EU legislation, animals relevant to the Polish economy, namely: deer, poultry, fur animals, alpaca, mulberry silk, and honeybee. In addition, standards specify specific requirements for breeding animals. In addition, the Act contains detailed provisions which will be the basis for the provision of aid related to the keeping of breeding books, as well as the assessment of the performance and genetic value of livestock. The legislator assumes the possibility of providing indirect support, firstly, in the form of subsidised services consisting in the keeping of breeding books - in this case the aid will be granted in accordance with the declaration up to 100% This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, Under the new provisions, the Minister responsible for Agriculture will approve or refuse to approve the breeding programme submitted by a breed society or breeding establishment. There is no doubt that the implementation of these standards will have a positive impact on the functioning of the European Union's economy and the Polish economy. The harmonisation of law by eliminating differences in the legal order of individual Member States in the area of animal breeding will, as a result, contribute to the efficiency of trade in breeding species and biological material derived from them. Unification of rules and facilitation of trade transactions between the Member States of the European Union should be a priority in the current noticeable crisis in the agricultural sector. As a result of the outbreak of COVID-19, Polish farmers and entrepreneurs in the meat industry were and are still in a critical economic situation, which without the support of the Polish state and the European Union will lead to the collapse of many of them, which we cannot afford. In view of the above, and above all of the good and continuous development of Polish agriculture, I believe that the procedated bill will have a positive impact on the animal breeding and breeding industry and will contribute to the further development of this area of the economy. The Polish People's Party has always stood and will stand on the side of farmers, which is why the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask the floor of Mr Michael Urbaniak, who will present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of September, we've been fighting against the five animals. Today, this draft was to be discussed at the committee meeting and a vote was to take place on it, but it will not be. My questions: Did he actually end up in the seym freezer or not? Why was there basically this whole animal defense discussion? The farmers' protests were effective? We'll see. It is possible that one postulate was successful, but there was another postulate, that is, the resignation of Minister Grzegorz Puda. That's what we've been waiting for. Once again, we are bringing EU law into our order. It's basically nothing new about how the elites of the Republic of Poland, the Third Republic, treat our Polish agriculture and the fact of food security. This is a matter of the fact that you just gave all this leadership to the European Union years ago. The requirements that the European Union imposes on us include: European green order, which will literally destroy Polish agriculture. Requirements imposed in the strategy: from field to table and in the biodiversity strategy tell us, for example. hold 10% agricultural land as unused whether they provide that 25% land should only be used for organic production. I don't know if it'll be profitable. According to my information, it doesn't look like it tonight. In principle, farmers were burdened with the costs of further health, environment and climate protection. This will lead to the relocation of a large part of today's production outside the European Union. High Izbo! This must be made clear: many foreign or non-European food producers are just wiping their hands and waiting for this to happen. Once again, instead of making life easier for farmers, European Union legislation is being introduced without reflection. In fact, it's not just farmers who have this problem. Gastronomy industry - closed recently, almost overnight, without consultation. You took people's bread. The same applies, for example, to the tourism industry, to travel agents or tour operators, even to museums. These people don't have bread today. These people have been waiting for some real help for months. Tourist shield didn't really touch them at all. On agriculture, it is also worth considering what is another systemic problem. This is an ASF issue. Problems have been increasing for several years, in principle since 2014. We are also still missing a national strategy on water management, because droughts are still there. It is natural that we are not responsible for how it rains, but we are responsible for where rainwater can be guided. The mere fact that there is another package of legislation from the European Union will only be a sad formality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u242	Thank you very much. Only two Members signed up for the questions. Is there anyone else who would like to join us? There will be three of you, then. The time for questioning is 60 seconds. I would like to ask Mr Mark Dyduch, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As you can see, women have gone to protest. Because men alone are in the courtroom, only one you are. I have a question unrelated to this law, but related to the problem that this law regulates. I mean the population of bees in Poland. We learn from various articles that the number of bees in Poland is decreasing. This is of course a huge problem in the context not only of honey production, but also of plant production in Poland. We know that such a problem occurs in the United States, where bees practically extinct and replace them is extremely difficult, and in some parts of plant production - not possible at all. First of all, it costs very much, huge billions of dollars go to replace bees in the plant production process. I wanted to ask for an answer from the government representatives in writing because it is not related to the provisions of this law (the bell), but it is related to the problem. I would like to know how this population is in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u244	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Brief question to the rapporteur. The fact that the rules introduced will take care of the genetics of animals currently reared, those which are the basis - so to speak - of agricultural production, I do not doubt. But is it sufficient to protect those races that are descending races? Here I think about cows - for example Polish red cow - here I think about sheep, here I also think about horses. Do these records somehow guarantee us that these breeds connected with our agriculture, our culture will not disappear? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u246	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Paul Rychlik, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The basis for high-quality breeding and breeding of animals is genetic issues: animal selection, crossbreeding, their genetic potential. The Institute of Zootechnics in Krakow plays a major role in this matter in our homeland. Minister! I wanted to ask you how the Ministry evaluates our potential for other countries. Are we self-sufficient in particular animal species, or do we need to import material from abroad? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u248	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u249	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I also have a question which brings up the matter of the law, but is perhaps not directly related to it, so - like Mr Dyduch - I will ask for an answer from the government in writing. The questions are basically two or one fundamental. Isn't it time to think about the overall statutory regulation of honeybees farming in Poland and aid to breeders who are facing serious problems, for example because there is still no government regulation on minimum conditions for maintaining... producing and selling bee snakes, as well as the use of plant protection products that threaten the existence of bee families? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the question to the ministry: Isn't it high time that regulations that are already in force in some countries of the European Union, I know that it is certainly in Bulgaria, to think about and introduce in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u250	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I now ask that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development be answered by Mr Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for this discussion, for the position of the clubs presented by your Members, for the positive reference to the common acquis, to the common intentions and to what has been done. I would also like to thank you for the questions which were completely substantive, the questions of Mr Piotr Boris. One thing was with a certain note of resentment, the need to explain where the delays came from, why it took so long. The delays were due to the fact that the bill entered in total the inevitable process of discounting due to the change of government, the change of parliament. It was a long process, as you noticed. The notification process in the European Commission lasted about 9 months. You can't call it chronic because of a big piece of work, one that you're doing here with positive notes. He was rather pedantic. The need for changes or discussions was evident. This was also the case with criminal rules and substantive provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, it was very clear here that it was beautiful, but the work had to continue. Also to the second question by Mr Piotr Boris, I am absolutely positive that in 2020 - this is the amendment of the Law and Justice Club - there is no provision for information about the organisation of horse competitions, it does not need simply to be submitted, which is perfectly eluded by any criminal sanctions. This is a resolution, an amendment completely occasional, completely rational, which, I think, in the light of other legal achievements here also all clubs and all those who approach this substantively, connects. Mr Mark Dyduch, as asked - I think that in a very similar tone and scope of interest Mr Protasiewicz has come here - we will send the relevant information in writing. There was also a question to the rapporteur, who will certainly be happy to take the answer. I can answer Mr Duda's question that there are efforts here, and it is active, that there are programmes from the RDPs, from the European Commission's resources, so that conservative breeds are very, very supportive and very helpful here. Mr Paweł Rychlik asked if we have sufficient genetic resources in such a reserve, truth, food security of Poland. Of course, at the Cracow zootechnics such a genetic bank is, and this is one of the systemic tasks, which by this institute, through ministerial supervision is carried out in our understanding sufficiently and exemplaryly. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u252	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, rapporteur of the committee, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a law, which is a very important, very comprehensive document, which comprehensively regulates the issues of breeding, breeding of animals. It is a basic zoo-technical law. I wanted to thank the Ministry for the fact that the bill was very well prepared, well consulted with many of the organisations that operate in this area. I would also like to thank Members for their work on the committee. This is a typical example of a non-political law, and all Members were very substantive about the issues contained in this proposal. Thank you for your commitment, your comments. I am convinced and I hope that this process will be equally effective at the next stages of the process. Personally, I am convinced that this bill will ensure that our breeding, animal reproduction will stand at a good or very good level, because this is of course the challenge of the moment. I am pleased - and here we refer to Mr Duda's question - that the Minister has already declared that there will be money for programmes related to the preservation of our native races. To emphasize the importance of keeping our races from disappearing, I specifically devoted the topic to it in the club report. Let us strive to ensure that the diversity and races we have boasted over many years do not disappear. Once again, I will smuggle it in: I am from the area where a breed of pigs was bred called Puławy, formerly called pigeon. The people of those lands reminded me to mention her. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u254	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office (prints Nos 644 and 671). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in print Nos 671 and 644. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading. This first reading was held on 15 October. During the committee's meeting, of course, a preliminary discussion took place and a governmental submission was considered, the main purpose of which is to bring the provisions of the National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office into line with the amendments contained in the Supreme Court Act and the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, which require judges and prosecutors only Polish citizenship. There is no way to act as a judge or prosecutor if you have a dual nationality, another country. And the same rules must also apply to applicants, listeners to the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. During the examination of the project, five necessary amendments were introduced to eliminate errors recognised in the Act, mainly in transitional provisions. The bill, of course, is expected by both the management of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as, of course, the applicants, the assessors. This is simply a legitimate expectation for this simple reason that we have some inconsistencies in the law today. In view of this fact and the smooth running of the committee work, we can today, at the Sejm's meeting, request that this draft law be passed, which I do on behalf of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof July, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft law submitted by the Government to amend the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. As already stated by the chairman of the committee here today, this law is primarily aimed at adapting the provisions to the provisions of the Supreme Court Act and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, especially in the context of the status of judges and prosecutors whose status is defined among others. by the fact that they have Polish citizenship - only Polish citizenship. Today, the situation we are facing at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is indeterminate. This bill, which the government has submitted, contains... You could say yes. The provisions amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office are, in principle, cosmetic regulations - referring to the duration of breaks in application classes at the national administration school so that they can use the time which is designed to grind knowledge and skills. This government proposal contains, above all, important issues concerning transitional provisions, so it is about what will happen after the entry into force of the law, which is the subject of our deliberations, and before they enter into force. This situation, this legal situation is not fully regulated. Here there is an important question whether an applicant, a graduate of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, who has passed a judge's or prosecutor's examination, can take the position of judicial assistant. So, in the introduction of the government, we propose a solution so that it is possible to preserve, adapt the standard of having only Polish citizenship, in order to run this procedure by the National Council of Courts. Such procedures have already been launched, so this applies to the period prior to the entry into force of the Act. Here is a special regulation, especially for graduates of the school who took a judge's or prosecutor's examination in 2019. If there's been a refusal, then... If such resolutions have been adopted by the National Judicial Council, those resolutions by virtue of the law themselves shall cease to be valid. This is a special situation that applies to a group of students of the national administration school... The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, who will pass the exam on the date of the Act's entry into force, but have started an application for a judge or a prosecutor before it enters into force. The procedure is then proposed. It's a request to the National Judicial Council. The National Judicial Board may take such a request into account, allow a candidate to be a judicial assessor or object. If he objects, then the candidate for a judicial assailant or the prosecutor's office shall be entitled to waive another nationality. Then, after all other statutory requirements have been met, he may assume the duties of the judicial assessor. An important issue - this law provides - is the procedure relating to proceedings before the Supreme Court, because complaints to the Supreme Court are available from the resolutions of the National Judicial Council. The exception is the procedure which is described in the Act. If such proceedings have been initiated before the Supreme Court by law, it shall be terminated by law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am convinced that this law will improve the functioning of the new prosecutors' and judicial experts in a new reality. I would like to declare on behalf of the club that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u258	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, who will present the position of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to present the position of the club regarding the draft law in print No 644 and 671. The bill largely concerns the introduction of an obligation to have only Polish citizenship for applicants for the role of judge and prosecutor. Why did this bill even enter the Sejm? Because, in the previous term, the government invented that in order to act as a prosecutor and judge of the general courts and a Supreme Court judge, it would be necessary to have only Polish citizenship. This solution was widely criticised by legal environments, NGOs and, of course, by us as an opposition also in the previous term. Why? For two reasons. First of all, the Citizenship Act, which in the article. 3 provides: Polish citizen with the same nationality of another country has the same rights and obligations as a person with only Polish citizenship. Without changing this provision, the majority of the governing authorities, after all, affected the balance between those who have only Polish and those who have other citizenship. She introduced such a requirement into the justice system. Let us refer to the provisions of the Constitution, which in the article. 60 explicitly states that everyone who has public rights is guaranteed access to public service under the same rights. The Constitution does not distinguish between nationality or nationality. However, contrary to all opinions, the majority of the Sejm introduced this in the previous term of office, except for prosecutors and judges. They created such a legal bubble, and today they remembered that they had harmed a large part of young people applying for these prestigious functions. Instead of withdrawing from the harmful idea and giving the possibility to perform public functions in the judicial system also to persons with more than one nationality, they extend this harmful record to groups of assessors. What effect will that have? Such that in the 21st century, when Poland has been a member of the European Union for years, when it is completely natural that we have multinational marriages, we have children who come from multinational marriages who attend different language schools, the state closes their way to performing public functions in the judicial system. Why? Nobody really knows the answer to that question. It's a fanaber, let's not be delusional. This is a pure PR procedure, because if there were any sincere intentions behind it, that only a true Pole with only Polish citizenship could perform public functions, so that you would have fewer Members. It is among you that there are citizens with more than one nationality. Such a person may be an MEP... And a minister. ...can establish the right for people not to be able to perform other public functions because they have many citizenships. What's the logic? None. What about Senator Anders, the current ambassador? Four citizenships. Didn't she perform much public service on your behalf? What was the problem with her having more citizenship? No. Why don't you like people who want to perform public functions in justice? Either they're fit and they're good prosecutors or judges or they're not. Just let them pass the test. But do not limit this by introducing an administrative ban on the possession of only one nationality. For God's sake, in this way you can deprive this very capable lawyer who was born, who has Polish citizenship, but is from a multi-national family. He speaks Polish, lives here all his life. He'd be a good prosecutor, but no, the PiS is banning him because he's got double citizenship, he's gotta give up. The record is at least harmful, not saying it's just stupid. I hope that sooner or later, the majority of the parliament will simply withdraw from these records when it sees that in practice it has negative effects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition amends this printing. If these amendments do not pass, we will vote negatively on the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u260	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u261	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Left Club today. In the explanatory memorandum to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, we read that the proposed amendments aim primarily at adapting the provisions of the Act to the provisions of the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court and the requirement for judges and court assistants to have only Polish citizenship and introduced by the Act of 28 January 2016 requiring prosecutors and prosecutors to have only Polish citizenship. In fact, this law seems to be a purely technical act at first glance. Looking from a legislative perspective, it harmonises the law, only that the problem is that it continues to destroy law and justice in the issue, the terms of omen, Law and Justice. What is happening now is the technical consequence of xenophobic and exclusionary policies of the ruling right. How else do you call a ban on the profession of judge and prosecutor, and now a lack of access to an application and a prosecutor for people with double citizenship? By the way, I would like to point out that such a ban does not yet apply to Members and Senators. We have a representative of the German minority in the Sejm. Maybe we will be next, because the real Poland, kneeling and Catholic, can only be for Poles. It's the ruins of the law and the courts that didn't start today. Nor did it start in 2017 with the Supreme Court Act. Unfortunately, it began with the beginning of the rule of the right hand. Already in 2015, when the ruling majority appointed double judges to the Constitutional Court, it led to a systemic crisis in the state. Now those doubles and obedient party officers have passed a sentence on women who weren't written at al. Shucha, but it's probably on the street. Nowogrodzka, maybe on the street. It's rural. The unconstitutional tribunal, its unconstitutional opinion today has led to another crisis, as if we are not fed up with a crisis that the rulers have not yet been able to cope with - the pandemic crisis. They have decided to give us another crisis, this time a social crisis that has caused hundreds of thousands of people on the streets who have had enough. Yeah, we've had enough and we're very bad. We demand legal abortion without compromise. We have already had a constitutional crisis in the country, a judicial crisis, and now we have a social crisis. That's how bad governance ends. This is the end of politicising the justice system and using it to fight its own society, to fight women, for example. by giving up the Istanbul Convention, tightening up abortion. After all, the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice in one person, he, this man - another bad practice, another bad law - personally signed the opinion of the prosecution to the opinion of the non-constitutional tribunal, the opinion of the mgr Przyłębska on 22 October. As a result, we have today's vote of distrust, because unfortunately the justice system in the Law and Justice issue is to be the forge of human resources, passive, mediocre, but faithful, loyal to the party's interests, not citizens. Attorneys who resign investigations into two towers or toss 70 million, prosecute activists, activists, people fighting for human rights, LGBT rights or women's rights. They're prosecutors who go after citizens on a political assignment instead of chasing criminals. It is now the system that is to produce favorable judges who draw the case of PiS politicians three times in a row. As you can imagine, the recommendation of the Left Club: we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u262	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u263	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Let me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, submit our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, seym prints No. 644 and 671. One of my previous speakers, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, was right to carry out a substantive analysis, which really gave rise to what was part of this bill, its logic, its assumptions. Of course, I fully share this and I agree with this substantive analysis by the Member. On the other hand, it seems to me that the causes are much more prosaic and, it would seem, amazing in these times than such a substantive analysis would have resulted. Well, I, High Izbo, have analyzed the last weeks and months as to what we saw in the United Right Camp. And we've dealt with something like a kind of rivalry between two coalitioners, i.e. on the one hand, the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, the President of Law and Justice, but also the Prime Minister, and Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, the leader of Solidarna Polska, whose heart is more Polish, whose heart beats more Polish, with greater concern for Poland, how this Polishness manifests itself, in which it manifests itself, how often it manifests itself. And I think the result of this competition is today's project. I do not find, High Izbo, any other justification in this type of logic and in such a way of reasoning, to answer the question put by Mr Myrcha in some way. Because in these days it is completely incomprehensible to deny access to justice to people who are prepared, who know the essence and meet the criteria, only because they have other citizenship outside Polish citizenship. Here the authors of this law as if mentally receded several dozen years back and reasoned from a perspective, I do not know, the end of the 1980s, the beginning of the 90s. Minister, the world has changed. The world has changed. Today the world is different. Today we need to take into account that we often change our country of activity. This is because many Poles who feel roots and feel ties with their country also have other citizenship, and I would not like to be a Member of the Sejm, so that such incomprehensible criteria deprive them of access to any legal professions, to work in the justice system of people who have the competence to do so, to eliminate them as a result of some competition for whose heart beats more in Polish. The coalition of Poland will make its position regarding this project subject to further changes in its content, because with the shape in which it is presented today, we do not find the possibility to support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to engage in a dispute between powerful swordsmen, because I still have no control over his decision. Besides, these swordsmen are quite far removed from what we mean by law and justice. So that I can take care of things that might come in handy for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we once had a judiciary that ended, a judicial education when law schools and administration schools were introduced. Well, the history of humanity is a struggle between administration and judiciary. The administration that tries to rule, like Stalin, Hitler and the other socialists, said that the law is an obstacle to efficient governance, and people who said on Anglo-Saxon grounds that the court should just throw logs so that the administration can't effectively deprive people of property, life or anything else. So that this basic difference and giving at one university the training of administrators and lawyers is completely absurd. Here's something completely new, which means we have a school to train judges and prosecutors. I knew, even quite well, one lady who had a higher education and also couldn't tell the judge from the prosecutor, but I didn't think it was at the level of the Sejm. I was amazed a few years ago that people resent the IPN prosecutors that they're not fair. Well, the I.P.N. Attorney isn't supposed to be fair, he's supposed to prosecute. To be fair, there's a judge who then gives sentences. It's a complete misunderstanding: asking the D.A. to be prudent and fair. Here we see a college that's supposed to train judges and prosecutors, and I have some concerns about that. In court before the war, you weren't allowed to sit at one table in a buffet with a judge, a prosecutor and a lawyer. These people had to be separated from each other, and they're learning at one college. It's something I don't understand completely. Ladies and gentlemen, who's the judge? I'm gonna talk about this mostly because the D.A. is an easier case. Well, the judge has to be trained, he has to gain immunity. The judge must be independent. The judge must understand that when Stalin tells him something, he has to say no; if a mob on the street wants something from him, he has to say no. If people come, it's 10,000. People and something screaming, it means they're wrong, because if they were right, it wouldn't take 10,000. People would only be right to reveal that. So that the judge must be independent, and this, I repeat, from the tyrant, which is the majority in the state, as well as from the tyrant who may come in, a single one. I'm afraid that's unfashionable today. Today, the judge is about to give in, to have empathy, to empathize with what people want. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's very different. I want the judge to listen to the letter of the law. If a judge starts to be human, that means corruption, that means you can do something because you deserve a man because he's poor because he has a family. And the Scriptures clearly say, Thou shalt have no cause for the poor in his cause. Everyone must be treated equally. I'm afraid in the case of this type of training that's going to happen here, it could be a misunderstanding again and we'll have people who don't know what they are. In my opinion, if anyone is to be a judge, he should be a prosecutor for at least a year, he should be a lawyer for a year, and only then can he be that judge - to know the tricks of both sides. This is a very, very important matter. We've got a tilt here. We've got judges and prosecutors. And where do we have lawyers, then, if we're going to keep our balance? So that in general I express anxiety about the very idea of starting this school. By the way, how do we think about this school, maybe you'd think for the future that maybe this school would be based on different principles: that judges should be trained for judges, prosecutors for prosecutors, and lawyers for lawyers? Some would finally be normal, not that everyone's good for a lawyer, for a prime minister, for something, everyone's good for anything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, People are different. Some are good for prosecutors, others are good for judge, and it's not like everyone's the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u266	Thank you very much. That's where we ended our club appearances. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. She will be the first to ask the question of Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We demand legal abortion, no compromises. In February, there was a giant data leak at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. At school, this was only realized at the beginning of April, after information received from the police. From the university's servers to the Internet, information about 52 thousand entered. Justice-related persons and law enforcement authorities, in particular judges and prosecutors. Among the data contained in the network were names, names, e-mail addresses, localities, and in the case of about 10,000. people - also phone numbers. Therefore, I have a question: Have the consequences been taken out and have such safeguards been put in place to prevent such situations in the future? Unfortunately, I did not find such solutions in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u268	Thank you, Member. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rulers. By amending the law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, you have divided, I hope, by accident, by mistake, by students, by applicants. This amendment refers to leave for applicants. They deserve this vacation because they work very hard. However, you have introduced a transitional provision that excludes yearbooks: nine, ten and eleven from the KSSiP. They can't have a well-deserved rest, a vacation. I'd like to ask you not to divide the applicants, not to divide the people as you do. I am asking you to correct this error so that these transitional provisions change so that they take account of all applicants, because we know very well that applicants who have a judge's or prosecutor's application work very hard in courts, prosecutors, they support the activities of these institutions, very often (Dawn) working over their strength, I can say: by doing these offices. Therefore, I ask you very kindly to treat all applicants the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u270	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One brief question, Minister. Please indicate the countries of the European Union in which similar arrangements have been applied with regard to judicial adepts, the adepts of the prosecutor's office, i.e. that the possession of double citizenship - apart from the nationality of the home country - disqualifies from entering the profession in the judiciary or in the prosecutor's office. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u273	High Izbo! The Left demands the right to abortion, the legal right to abortion. Ladies and gentlemen, the exclusion is ongoing. It's hard to find a social group that the ruling party doesn't rule out. So I would like to ask you: Do you know that Zygmunt August was the son of Italian and Lithuanian? Polish blood wasn't in it at all. Did you know that Wawel Queen Jadwiga was half Hungarian and half Bosnian? Did you know that Prince Adam Czartoryski, the leader of the conservative-liberal camp, the famous Hôtel Lambert, was the fruit of the union of Isabella Czartoryska and her lover of the Russian Nikolai Repnin, and King Henryk Valeza was not only French, but also gay? They in today's Republic would not find a place (the bell) in the legal competition. I would therefore like to know if Minister Czarnek will remove them from the programme basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u274	Thank you, Member. One last question, Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. The list went faster than I expected. Oh, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If we're talking about law school, it's very important to interpret the law, also to interpret the symbolism that applies. Today, Marshal Terlecki in this House was gracious to say that ladies, who bear the sign of lightning, refer to Nazi designs. It's not for me to decide. On the other hand, I would like to say that Mrs Senyszyn put a sign of lightning on her Twitter profile today, informing you that Mr Marshal is not taught because it is a sign of the Grey Troops. I wanted to say that a few years ago, a small group of people came to the Independence March with exactly the same symbol you're wearing. At that time the entire left was screaming about the Nazi symbols being on the March of Independence. I would therefore very much like to ask Members of the Left for a uniform interpretation of what this symbol really is (the bell). Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u276	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Romanowski, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u277	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I answer Mrs Lewis' first question. With regard to the data leak at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to point out that this case is being investigated by the school authorities. Of course, we do not resolve the issue in the end, it was related to the external contractor's fault, who carried out an IT project for the school, and it was related to negligence, perhaps to other activities of people from an external company. As far as safeguards are concerned, of course this law does not provide for this type of regulation. Her matter is different. There is also no need to adopt special regulations, that is the issue of adopting appropriate regulations at the basic level and the issue of organisational settlements. Such decisions have been taken. As regards the second question, regarding the issue of leave, I would like to point out that the Act here acts prospectively, does not apply to those yearbooks that have already started the application. This, of course, is as legitimate as possible from the point of view of correct legislation. These leave is of course granted to applicants to a different extent than the amendment provides for. The problem was, in particular, the adjustment of the third year, the problem with the timetable, which is why these solutions were adopted as a last resort. I can assure you that in the course of the analysis at the stage of these regulations, it was our intention that these regulations should already enter into force in respect of the current yearbooks. Unfortunately, due to the timetable and for organisational reasons, this was not possible. As regards the issue of other legal systems and the admissibility of such arrangements in general, so that judges and prosecutors can have only the nationality of the country in which they exercise their function, I would like to draw attention to the case law of the Constitutional Court, the 1998 judgment, which states that Article. The 60th Constitution, which refers to this principle of equal access to public service, does not mean, on the part of a citizen, the right to appoint a specific post. The Court accepts here, referring to a well-established view, that the legislator is entitled to lay down additional conditions which are equal for all who are necessary to fulfil certain positions. For example, only Polish citizenship concerns positions such as the Border Guard Officer, the National Tax Administration, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance or members of the college, the head of the ABW or the head of the Intelligence Agency. This regulation that we are talking about today, of course, does not directly concern this issue. She does not introduce, contrary to what Mr Paszyk has pointed out, this regulation, this ban - it could be said - double citizenship towards assessors, because this ban is already in place. We are just mitigating it by introducing in the transitional provisions the possibility of exempting persons who, before the entry into force of this prohibition, started the application. I am not going to answer you precisely now, in which other countries such solutions operate, precisely because this was not the subject of this regulation. I don't have that knowledge, but, of course, I'll answer in writing. As regards other comments that appeared during the speeches, I would like to point out that the Polish legal system, as regards access to the profession of judge, is diverse. It is not only the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but it is also possible to access from other legal professions: lawyers, counsellors, academics, as well as prosecutors. I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that since 2015 judges and prosecutors have been trained separately at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This regulation responds to the demands of the applicants to introduce this transitional regulation and aims, in certain specific cases, to mitigate this ban. because of the transitional period. For this reason, I ask the High House to adopt the law in this wording. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u278	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Marek Ast, also asked questions to be answered. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the Minister's statement in the context of the amendments tabled by the representative of the Civic Coalition, it is worth saying that at the committee's meeting this issue was raised as regards the requirement of Polish citizenship for judges and prosecutors only. And the consequence, i.e. the proposal from the government's submission, that this order should also apply to prosecutors and judges at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. During the committee's meeting, these questions were answered because we really do not want - this is the intention of the projector - to expose applicants who are listeners to the National Court School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, to finish this school, and then, in the circumstances of the current laws of the Supreme Court Act and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which require only Polish citizenship, they will not be able to become judges or prosecutors. So the proposal, which is included in the government proposal, is to eliminate this situation. However, of course, I thank you for this discussion at the committee meeting and today. I hope that, despite the amendments tabled, this proposal will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u280	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In view of the forthcoming meeting, the Sejm Bureau is adjourned until 3 p.m. 6:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 53 hours 18 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the centenary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives in Poland (prints Nos 468 and 701). I would like to ask Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemoration of the centenary of the adoption of the first law on cooperatives in Poland. 100 years ago, on October 29, 1920, the cooperative law was passed. It was the first Polish cooperative law, which included in the legal standards dynamically developing in the independent Republic of Poland cooperative movement. To this day, this law is a model of legislation which has had a significant impact on the development of the cooperative model in Polish law. The current definition of cooperatives is modelled on the definition set out in this law. Thanks to the 1920 Act, the cooperative became a separate type of economic entity which is a legal entity. The first Polish cooperative law introduced the principle that membership of the cooperative is available to all. Each member shall have one vote regardless of the number of shares held. The principle of conducting, in addition to economic activity, also cultural and educational activities has also been adopted. The solutions from one hundred years ago were modern and were the basis for the development by the International Cooperative Union of cooperative principles: voluntary and open membership, democratic control of membership, autonomy and independence and care for the local community. These rules are still being respected worldwide today. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland commends the rich achievements of cooperatives in Poland, starting with the Hrubieszowski Agricultural Society, also known as the Agricultural Society of the Joint Rescue in Unhappiness, founded by Stanisław Staszic. Thanks to figures like Edward Abramowski, Fr. Stanisław Adamski, Wiesław Chrzanowski, Maria Dąbrowska, Romuald Mielczarski, Bolesław Prus, Franciszek Stefczyk, Fr. Piotr Wawrzyniak, Stanisław Wojciechowski, Stefan Żeromski, cooperative movement today is active and can draw from the enormous achievements of previous generations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u282	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the centenary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives in Poland. On 29 October 1920 the Sejm adopted the Act on Cooperatives, which in its assumptions was derived from the achievements of the Polish cooperative movement developing rapidly in the times of partitions. The Act was one of the important acts involved in the creation of a new legal order reborn by the Second Republic of Poland. The young Polish authorities of that time faced the problem, first of all, of harmonising laws, so different in three partitions. The Cooperatives Act was just the answer to these problems. Its modern solutions were also appreciated by cooperative movement outside Poland. The law itself consisted of six departments governing the establishment, operation and possible dissolution of the cooperative. It was essential to make it possible, within two years, for any association operating under the existing possessive legislation to bring them into line with the provisions of the new law. After the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 1921, it was amended twice in the interwar period - in 1923 and 1934. When discussing the legal regulations of the cooperative movement of the Second Republic, which was created after the fall of the First Republic, it is impossible not to mention its precursors on Polish lands. First of all, one should mention Stanisław Staszic, the father of Polish cooperativeism, who bought the land in 1811 in the territory of the Russian partition, creating the Hrubieszow Agricultural Society to save himself together in misfortune, Fr. Augustyna Szamarzewski, who, opposing the economic expansion of Germany, founded in Środa in 1864 a model credit cooperative, Franciszek Stefczyk, operating in Galicia, who founded the first loan money in Czernichów at the turn of 1889 and 1890. Mrs. Marshal! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption by the Sejm of a resolution on commemorating the centenary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u284	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u285	We are discussing a resolution on the creation of the first law on cooperatives from 1920. The first cooperatives, which had statutes, were actually established in the UK in 1844. But we have nothing to be ashamed of, because definitely earlier in the territory of individual partitions, citizens organized themselves to support, work and act, and it allowed them to maintain economic separation. The section on educational, cultural activities also allowed to preserve tradition and cultivate Polishness. In fact, in Małopolska Kasa Stefczyk, in Poznań agricultural circles led by Fr. Piotr Lobrzyniak or Społełeł in the Congressional area. It was all very well prepared, it had beautiful statutes on which we should rely until today. Not only was it said that each member has the same rights as social control, but it was also said that cooperatives are world-spectrum neutral and open to tolerance. Beautiful passwords, very much needed to work together. That is why we are pleased to recommend this resolution, although I also wanted to remind those who created cooperatives, because they were very different people, from different backgrounds, from different states, from artists to politicians, to priests or people conducting their own business activities, as we would say. A variety of people who could work together. The fact that Stefan Żeromski invented the name "Społem" for this one of the most famous cooperatives also deserves to be reminded. It means that even artists were involved in making cooperatives in our country work. This is an example of civil society as it should look. It is beautiful that the new Poland, the new homeland, at the very beginning of its action drew attention to this and was able to create a law that was a model for other countries. We were able to make modern laws, the laws that others wanted to apply, we could be a model. And that is what I wish for, and for you, that we should make such a law in this Seym. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u286	Thank you, Marshal. On behalf of the parliamentary club Lewisław Szczepański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present our position on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemoration of the centenary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives in Poland. In 2 days we will celebrate the anniversary of the century of the adoption of this very modern constitution at that time, because on 29 October 1920 the Sejm passed a law on cooperatives. The Polish cooperative movement today - I will refer to the present times, my previous speakers spoke about history - brings together more than 9 thousand. cooperatives that employ more than 200,000. persons. These cooperatives are an important part of the Polish economy today, because cooperative societies are financial cooperatives, communal cooperatives, Self-help Chłopska, agricultural production cooperatives, cooperative producer groups, cooperative associations of disabled people, housing, dairy, garden and beekeepers, labour, social, crafts, consumers, students or cooperatives of agricultural rings. When we look at the cooperative anthem, we read the following verses: By the law of our brotherly community, we will destroy every exploitation like leprosy. In short, this passage perfectly reflects the essence of cooperativeism. Cooperatives are voluntary organisations accessible to all persons who can benefit from their benefits and who are willing to fulfil their obligations of membership without discrimination against sex, social statute, race, political beliefs and religion. Voluntary membership is based on three rules: open doors, equal rights of members, obligations of members towards cooperatives. Cooperatives are democratic organisations managed and controlled by members who actively participate in defining cooperative policy and decision-making. Men and women in cooperatives are responsible by choice for members. In cooperatives, members have equal voting rights. One vote, one member. Cooperatives are therefore self-help self-government organisations managed by their members. They work for the proper development of local communities in which they operate through policies approved by members. In different countries, cooperatives develop as much as governments support them. The future of cooperatives in Poland should be looked forward optimisticly, mainly because of the greater awareness of the social and economic objectives of cooperatives. It should be emphasized that also the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, granted national patronage in the century of regaining independence of the scientific conference prepared by the National Cooperative Council under the heading "The Century of the Adoption of the Act of 29 October 1920 on Cooperatives - the past, the present and the future of cooperative law," which is intended to highlight the important role of this legal act. Unfortunately, due to the COVID, this conference is due to take place next spring. I would like to say that in the century of adoption of this resolution, our club, which is its creator, supports this resolution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u288	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First word. I would like to thank the applicants very warmly for preparing this resolution and noting the role played by cooperatives in Poland's history, but they also play today. Therefore, according to the definition: a cooperative is an autonomous association of people who voluntarily join in order to meet common economic, social and cultural needs and aspirations through a joint venture... It's such a very universal definition, ladies and gentlemen, but I think it's very timely today. It should be remembered that the creation of a uniform law for the entire territory of Poland in 1919, when this project was submitted, was certainly not, ladies and gentlemen, simple. On the other hand, I wanted to read the draft law on cooperatives at the time. It was prepared by the Minister of Treasury and submitted to the Polish Sejm in 1919, and in the report of the established cooperative committee we read, among others.: Development of the project was preceded by an interdisciplinary professional survey composed of the most outstanding representatives of cooperative science in Poland and delegates of Polish Cooperative Unions of Revisions, while the codification of the project was carried out in conjunction with the interdisciplinary legal commission chaired by Prof. Stanisław Wróblewski from Kraków. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that today, on the 100th anniversary of those whom we would like to thank, these are hundreds of creators of housing cooperatives, dairy cooperatives, communal cooperatives Self-help Chłopska, agricultural production cooperatives, cooperatives of agricultural rings, referred to the Universal Cooperative of Grocers Ladies and gentlemen! I come from Western Pomerania and let me thank in a special way, actually quite symbolically, the outgoing President Marian Ilnicki, who was the president of the agricultural production cooperative for 62 years - 13 thousand. ha, 1100 employees. This is one of the best examples of how this good idea of cooperativeism in Poland can be practically implemented for the benefit of the development of the region and Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much. Once again, I congratulate all those who once created, and today they are developing cooperatives in Poland. Thank you very much. Of course, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u290	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Polish Confederation's Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased that we are proceeding on such a draft resolution, because I think it is a resolution that is actually able to join us in this Chamber, just as we are here. Cooperatives are simply a form of economic activity, which is effective, and since the beginning cooperative activities have developed participation in the improvement of the urban population or the supply of goods to the rural population. It's perfectly natural. This is also a question of e.g. participation in the commercial service of agriculture or the expansion of the food industry. Naturally, in parallel with the development of economic activity, cooperatives have been doing socio-educational work among their members for 100 years. This is really positive, this is a really good example of working at the bottom. We as nationalists, because I represent in the Confederation of Nationals, have respected cooperative movements for years, for years in our programs these cooperative movements have appeared and we will continue to support them. People don't create cooperatives to get rich, but above all, to protect themselves from poverty. For co-operatives, the answer becomes obvious: it cannot be another always commercial enterprise, and if it is to be a co-operative, there is no need to call it co-operative, because it is enough to have a commercial code and rules on the market. In the discussion of the new economic reality that we have today, because cooperatives have been in existence for 100 years and are currently based on the law of 1983, there is the view that as long as they remain on the market in a particular industry, they should exist for as long as possible. The forecasts also predict that, following the crises that we now have, many cooperatives that will survive can be leaders in specific markets. That's what they have to wish for today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. The first question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u293	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is a really big day, an important moment when the Polish Sejm adopts a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives. On this day I would like to thank, as a folklore, all cooperative activists, especially those who created and create them and operate in the Łódź Voivodeship. They deserve special distinction - I would like to mention a few cooperatives - among others. Gminna Spółdzielnia Samopoczenia ChłopskA w Pabianice z młodzieńcznej President Wiesław Stasiak, Gminna Spółdzielnia Samopoczenia Chłopska w Ozorkowie z główna Dariusz Szpakowskim, Spółdzielnia Invalidów w Skierniewice, Zakład Elementów Inductcyjnych z młodziejk, Okręgowa Spółdzielnia Mleczarska w Głuchow, z młodziejna President Teresa Jędraszek, spółdziela ograniczona w Rawa Mazowiecka, Spółdzielnia Szczędniowej [[♪ The bell ♪]] These cooperatives across the country are extremely much, all low bows and thanks for your beautiful work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u294	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I thank the Left Club for this initiative, because it is in the year of the Polish cooperative movement that Parliament expresses its appreciation and thanks to all those who, as citizens, undertake this form of economic activity, but also to this form of civic activity. Since 2004, in connection with the Act since 2006, the youngest sphere of cooperatives, namely social cooperatives, has been operating. They are special cooperatives, because they are founders of people with social exclusion, i.e. unemployed people, those who are in a difficult material situation, but also a form of interaction between non-governmental actors, self-government and ecclesiastical people. It is these legal entities that can create cooperatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it is also worth to see in this huge cooperative acquis this youngest segment, namely social cooperatives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u296	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, cooperatives are an extremely important part of the social life of Poles, economic life and housing. On a daily basis, we probably don't all realize that most of us, a few million of us, are just or have been a member of this movement. And it's a holiday. all of us, which on the one hand allows us to be proud of these achievements of many generations of co-operatives, but on the other hand also shows that this cooperative movement has a good future ahead of it, because there is even a question of housing cooperativeism. I don't think anyone cares as much about giving Poles the right conditions to live like cooperatives. But today, when we celebrate this holiday, it is worth to appeal to the government to also the cooperatives (the bell), just in the name of the holiday 100 years after the first legislation, the first law, allow us to use the so-called. Estonian tax. Thank you very much. This is the moment, this is the moment when you have to meet the cooperatives. Let it be such a visible sign of appreciation for cooperative movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u298	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On this beautiful day of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the cooperative law I would like to ask the High Chamber, all of us here, if we can afford the same effort to create a new cooperative law for the 21st century. What we have in Poland is actually a few tricks. None of them work well. Mr Suchoń was just talking about housing cooperatives. This is a tragedy. The cooperative housing cooperative can't do anything. Okay. 4%. owners of cooperatives, or co-operatives, attend meetings, decisions are made over their heads. Agricultural cooperatives. A lot of them are in a bad situation. Several dairy cooperatives have recently fallen. And we can exchange bad things like that. In fact, cooperatives, unlike what a fellow Confederate colleague said, this is an opportunity to make money by these small and medium-sized ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is where we're supposed to make money, and because we have a tragic bill, the little ones and the medium ones don't have the opportunity to earn a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! An important anniversary, an important resolution of the century of cooperative legislation, a bottom-up movement to build social initiatives, beautiful initiatives, sometimes very difficult. I would like to pay my compliments and thanks to all the co-operatives in Poland in Lublin. In particular, I would like to thank dairy cooperatives: Krasnystaw, Lublin, Lubartów, LSS Spolem Lublin, and housing cooperatives: RSM Motor, Railwayr and everything else. May your past, based on the present, build a good future for you and your members. I hope the legislators don't ruin it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u302	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the rapporteur, Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, like to take the floor at the end? No, thank you, not anymore. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (Prints Nos 563 and 662). I would like to ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the work on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, print No 563. The project concerns ensuring that public funds are used to finance investments in the medical services market by meeting the demand for medical services in the area concerned and eliminating oversupply of certain medical services. The project entered the Sejm on 11 August 2020. Like I said, the print was given number 563. It was addressed to first reading in the Health Committee. On 6 October, the Health Committee considered a report on the work of the subcommittee, which was held on 15 September. On behalf of the Committee on Health, I ask the High House to adopt the attached draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u304	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u305	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government to submit a draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print Nos 563 and 662. The aim of the proposed changes is to ensure that the use of public funds for financing medical investments is optimised and that certain services are oversupplyed. The main changes made by the project, first of all, concern the coverage of a wide range of medicinal entities which provide or intend to provide medical services financed by the State budget, carrying out investment tasks, evaluation in the IOWISZ system by making NFZ benefits dependent on a positive assessment of the appropriateness of the investment. In the light of the proposed regulation, in the absence of a positive assessment, it will not be possible to conclude a contract for the provision of benefits under a competition for tenders or negotiations before the expiry of 5 years after the end of the investment. This applies to all newly created entities and all types of benefits contracted under the competition procedure. Secondly, the changes concern the definition of a lower value limit for investments - at the level of PLN 2 million - for which there will be an obligation to assess the accuracy of investments. Thirdly, the changes concern the strengthening of the substantive assessment of proposals for high value strategic investments, i.e. applications with a cost estimate of investments exceeding PLN 50 million, by setting up a Commission for the Evaluation of Investment Proposals as an ancillary body. It should be stressed that the creation and functioning of a committee will not generate additional costs. Members of the committee shall not be remunerated for attending meetings. Fourthly, the amendments concern the creation and evaluation of the application form. The proposal provides for a derogation from the indication in the application of the fields of medicine. This will make it possible to illustrate investment as a complementary whole, optimizing holistic evaluation, as one coherent whole, without separate assessment of individual areas. Finally, fifthly, the amendments concern the harmonisation of the form of submission of applications for evaluation - only by electronic means, using the IOWISZ system. It should be stressed that the project provides for a three-year period for a positive assessment from its date of issue. However, the period of validity of the opinions issued before the entry into force of this draft law remains unchanged - so far it is unlimited. It is worth noting that the proposed changes do not affect existing agreements concluded with the NFZ, but only concern cases where the healthcare provider seeks to increase funding under the agreement. In addition, the project assumes that public support should only receive investment projects that are actually targeted and therefore meet existing and projected health needs. I am convinced that in practice this solution will avoid the chaotic and short-sighted development of the services market. The solutions contained in the draft law will optimise the use of public funds for financing investments in the medical services market and allow rational and targeted public spending. This in turn in the perspective will contribute to meeting the demand for medical services in a given area, often in deficit today, and to eliminating oversupply of certain medical services. If, ladies and gentlemen, we take into account the systematic increase in health expenditures implemented by the Government of Law and Justice - after all, in the draft budget for 2021 we have planned expenditures of 5.3% gross domestic product, which results in a quota increase (Bell) year by 12 billion zlotys - it should be noted that this government bill is part of the systematic actions of Law and Justice that introduce rational, modern and good changes in the health care system. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club supports the draft law submitted and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u306	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the provision of health services financed by public funds and certain other laws is the result of the need to adapt investment in the health sector to the real needs of society, the aim of which is to eliminate the phenomenon of oversupply of medical services. The project provides for the requirement to have an opinion on the appropriateness of the investments of medicinal entities created by local government units and the introduction of a quota limit on the value of investments - up to PLN 2 million - which will not be subject to the purpose of the opinion. The opinion on the purpose of investments with a costing value exceeding PLN 2 million will be issued by the voivode or the Minister responsible for Health. The Minister responsible for Health shall be given competence to assess the appropriateness of investments for applicants in the case of investments whose cost estimate at the date of submission of the application exceeds PLN 50 million. The draft envisages the creation of a Commission for the Evaluation of Investment Proposals, which is to be the advisory and advisory body of the Minister responsible for Health, and at the same time sets out the terms and conditions for the persons appointed to that committee. The provisions of the Act provide for the conclusion of agreements with the National Health Fund from having a positive opinion on the purpose of the investment and provide public support for those investment projects which have positive opinions on the purpose of the investment, i.e. projects which are actually absolutely necessary and corresponding to existing and projected health needs in the area concerned. The provisions of this Act will include medicinal entities that provide or intend to provide medical services financed by the State budget - investments will be assessed in the Investment Proposals Assessment Facility in the Health Sector, hereinafter referred to as IOWISZ - for the implementation of investment tasks. The introduction of the provisions of the Act will result in any newly created medicinal entity, entity or cell of a medicinal entity participating in the proceedings for the conclusion of health contracts being obliged to submit an assessment of the purpose of the investment, while the rules for contracting by entities which have already signed contracts will not be subject to change. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition raises no objections to the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u308	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Jan Szopiński will speak first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to make best use of public funds, it is proposed to make contracts with the National Health Fund conditional on having a positive opinion on the purpose of investment and public support only for those investment projects which are actually targeted and thus meet existing and projected health needs in the area concerned. The proposed amendments will require any newly created medicinal entity or new establishment or organizational unit of a medicinal establishment of a medicinal entity performing a medical activity to submit an opinion in the course of this procedure with the National Health Fund. The procedure for the substantive assessment of medical investment proposals is, in our view, most appropriate when they are to operate within a coherent healthcare system. Therefore, my club, the Left Club, does not raise any objections in this matter. However, this is the future. However, for today we are living here and now and we wanted to bring and continue to signal to the government that urgent solutions require other issues, such as: chaos and lack of systemic solutions in organizing the reception of coronavirus infected to hospitals. Ambulances are still waiting in front of hospitals in long queues or circling between hospitals. There's no system for swabging seniors who are sick in their apartments. Those who do not have their own means of transport or who are not tested and diagnosed do not reach the exobuses. And there are still no flu vaccines in the pharmacy promised to the seniors free of charge, although the flu season is full.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u310	Thank you. In the second part, Mr Zdzisław Wolski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left parliamentary club will support this project because we believe it is needed, and we also take it a little as a credit to the government that these proposed changes, which we will adopt in the vote tomorrow, will benefit only in the interests of public health, patients that there will be no reservations about these changes. or not good suspicions. In 2018 and 2019 25 applications with a value of more than 50 million were submitted in the IOWISZ system to date, i.e. the proposed meeting of the Investment Proposal Assessment Commission once a month seems optimal and, as the previous speakers said, not generating the basis for additional costs. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that a positive investment assessment will be the basis for increasing funding from the National Health Fund, both through negotiations and already concluded contracts through a tender contest, and will also be one of the important criteria in terms of assessing offers in new proceedings, which is an incentive for investment. This lower limit of 2 million also seems very reasonable. Of course, the Minister of Health, which is the most important, in cooperation with other resorts, will have a tool to coordinate the necessary investments, large-scale investment purchases, but at the same time there will be no paralysis at the level of medicinal units, if for example. The MRI's broken, the CT, because it depends on how they're qualified - or as an investment purchase - these measures. This also gives freedom to equip medical devices up to PLN 2 million on their own. It also seems very reasonable. And it is only necessary to wish that, in the age of COVID - eventually this epidemic will pass - former investors, former medicinal entities who will want to invest, in the interests of all of us, that these investments, the construction of new units and the addition of the necessary equipment (the bell) be as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We've been working on this bill for a long time, and a lot of people have put in a lot of trouble here. However, even at this point in time I cannot accept certain provisions, especially justifications, such as the one from which the justification of this law begins, namely: The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Act is to eliminate the phenomenon of oversupply of medical services. It sounds like if one of the Poles read, as if in Poland really health care was a country of milk and honey flowing, where we really have something to choose from, especially at a time when people can't get to a doctor, when a specialist is only available in the county city, and not every one of them. And today, the Sejm is starting to oversupply the medical services market. I worked for many years at the marshal's office, in contact with the health system. I suppose I know what you're talking about, but I've always thought that the government has smart, effective and intelligent ideas and mechanisms to remedy this situation, that it doesn't have to resort to such blockades. Especially since we know examples from many localities in our country, where the municipal authorities have built objects which today cannot obtain a contract - and really not for a great specialist, but for ordinary dentistry. And today we're talking about oversupply. You write further in the explanatory memorandum: the proposed changes are the result of the Ministry of Health's experience in performing tasks in the field of development and implementation of maps of health needs. In my opinion, this is not the case: the proposed changes are the result of the Ministry's inability to implement maps of health needs. Now you're starting to do something completely different. The national and voivodship transformation plan will be established. It is said that this country will take into account the recommendations resulting from the existing health needs maps, but will be determined by the Minister. And here we are back to the matter of centralizing decision-making in this country. After all, we remember how maps of health needs were made. I believe that the assessment of the purpose of investment is unnecessary regulation. I believe that the new rules will restrict the competition of medicinal products for patients. I believe that the new rules will restrict access to public health treatment. I think that the Minister and the Ministry should do something completely different. The Minister should establish a yearly list of the missing subjects and areas of medicine. My voivodship lacks e.g. Urology department in Skierniewice. There is a hospice missing in Tomaszów Mazowiecki or a dialysis station in Rawa. Then I know where these people have to go. There's a public fundraiser. There is no help in many fields of medicine, and today we start with a restriction. You want to put in place a positive OCI period of 3 years, and similar rules have said that this has been granted for an unlimited period of time. Note: I believe that the bill is a mistake of concepts. The State should support the shortage of medical services and not start by eliminating competition in the medical market. That's the kind of work the Ministry of Health should start with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u314	Thank you very much. The position of the Female Confederation Circle, Mr Robert Winnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first I wanted to say that I am very happy that after a few days, during which the defence of the temples throughout Poland, mainly with the hands of nationalists, Catholics and fans, Jarosław Kaczyński considered it appropriate to call for the same PiS activists, although he did not provide for these several days. as Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. the security of the churches on the part of the police. Please return to the bill. I'm also surprised that all these days, the PiS activists themselves didn't think of it, but the president had to tell them. But it's good and it's good. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the procedated regulation... We're talking about the health system. Today, the health system is in total collapse. Basic health care - as far as the clinics of the National Health Fund are concerned, they resemble besieged fortresses. A few months ago, no doctor would have decided to diagnose him without examining the patient. The basic practice was physical research, i.e. Listening to the patient, palpation, seeing the patient. You can't do it over the phone. The patient can assess his symptoms and ailments freely and subjectively today. That's what teleports are all about. Teleport works primarily in one case - in case of extension of prescriptions, only and exclusively. The deadlines for planned surgery of patients have been cancelled. There is no information when they will be admitted and in what mode. As far as oncology is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a 30% decrease in oncology detection. In April and May, the Mazowieckie voivodship reported a decrease in mammography by more than 91%. For Śląskie and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodships, the declines were even greater, in turn 94%. and 97% . If we neglect cancer treatment, we'll have 5 to 10,000. more deaths this year, during the year - says Prof. Jacek Jassem, director of the Department and Clinic of Oncology and Radiotherapy of the Gdańsk Medical University. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, not within a week, not within a month, about 300 people die every day from cancer in Poland. As far as cardiology is concerned, the number of treatments performed at the University Hospital in Krakow has decreased by almost 1/3 due to the pandemic. In September, 40% of heart disease was performed at the Wrocław Clinic. less planned treatments than at the same time a year before. In cardiology, the number of scheduled procedures dropped by up to 70%. and still does not return to normal - emphasizes Prof. Adam Witkowski, President of the Polish Cardiology Society. Doctor data indicates that between January and April of this year the number of strokes detected decreased by 1/5, more than 19% and people who have undergone a specialized stroke surgery - even more than 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with today is not only the result of this epidemic - we are well aware of this - not just of government action, actually more government action than epidemic. This is the result of the long-term system negligence for which they are responsible, they are responsible and SLD, and Platform with PSL, and of course they have been in charge for 5 years. Even if there was no Coronavirus, the Polish health system was still in a serious crisis. Today, the government, in its policy of isolation, quarantine, pushing people outside the health care system, contributes to a much greater mortality - especially over time, oncology or cardiological - than because of Coronavirus. That's the truth. Ambulances are lined up all night long. There can't be a situation like this. We are calling for the immediate thawing of the health care system, so that people can normally come to the doctor to start a diagnostic. First of all, let us focus all our efforts, our country's efforts to support at this moment the health system, not to close further areas of life, gastronomy, fitness, etc. Because in a moment it will turn out that not only many more people will die of cancer or heart disease, but also that we will not have money, because there will be a huge budget hole, there will be millions of unemployed in Poland. We won't have the money to heal this sick health system. Defrost health care as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u316	Thank you very much. That's where we ended the club and the circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, will ask you as the first question. There is no Member. So Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. I can't see either. Mr. Michael Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs. Marta Wcislo, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law is not contrary to European Union law, as we read in the opinion of the Minister for European Union Affairs. But we also read that the aim of the project is to oversupply medical services. It sounds irrational today when there are no beds, when patients wait for months for specialists. But okay, let's see what happens. My question is: How will the bill affect the availability of health care for patients? How the project will affect the number of beds in Poland, including in Lublin, where 900 beds were removed from your government, and after the amendment of the 2017 law on hospital networks, the debts of hospitals increased to 13 400 million. Because there is nothing worse than overregulating a given area of the economy. I'd like a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u319	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Investment in health care is extremely important. This is a good project because we have many organizers today. The organizer for individual hospitals or other health services units is local governments: local governments, district government, in some cases local governments, medical universities, military, MSWiA, private. This should somehow systematize and sort out the situation that is in terms of investment. But even more important, it is extremely important to look at the current functioning of health care. Today hospitals have record debt, the largest debt in the history of Polish hospitals. This is one element. The second element, the coronavirus that we are dealing with today, has shown really big gaps (The Bell) and huge shortages that we have in the Polish health service. We have to try to fix this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u320	Thank you. And last question, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the practice of this law, which will probably come into force. Namely, with regard to the CCI that will be issued, are you not concerned about judging the discretion of such decisions? Because you will collide with cases such as the Clinic and Dydactic Center in Łódź, which has been built for 70 years. Every year several hundred million are invested in individual floors. Old hospitals are being moved, although e.g. So far they function quite well, and people collect signatures so that they are not removed and moved to that place. Not to mention trouble with private investors. Do you have any way of avoiding a judgment of non-Objectivity in issuing this type of issue? [[Applause]] A decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u322	Thank you very much. May I join you, Marshal? Not to the questions anymore, because the questions are over. Member, I am very sorry. The questions asked will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u323	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would very much like to thank the representatives of the Civic Coalition for the votes put in the discussion, especially those of the Civic Coalition, for the representatives of the Left. I am very pleased that we have a clear and similar view on the solutions proposed in the Act. And it is really important for us to support this project. A project that regulates certain issues. A project that does not introduce a whole system of assessment of the purpose of the investment. It is really an amendment of the law, an amendment of the solutions that we introduced for the first time a few years ago, as I remember well, in 2016, solutions that were already actually aimed at assessing the purpose, sealing the investment system, rationalising public spending. Now, after a few years of operation of this system, we are introducing clarification solutions that really stem from our experience in evaluating these investments. Several solutions under this law are indeed clarification. These are issues concerning the value of investments, a minimum threshold of PLN 2 million. We have seen that it is not effective to assess applications of less value. It involves staff resources, and its outcome does not contribute much to the rational spending system. On the other hand, we see the need for a more thorough, more detailed, more complex assessment of the largest strategic projects, projects above PLN 50 million. This amendment introduces very important links. We see some investments, we hear about them, we hear signals, calls. These appeals are also received by you and by many people who are trying to put some pressure on the Ministry of Health. The point is that there is a beautiful hospital in some town, beautiful branches, beautiful surfaces, and the Minister of Health - and in fact the National Health Fund - does not want to give a contract. It seems to me that this is the law that we want to change that view. In fact, first, the investment has to fit into certain needs - trans-regional, local needs. First, the operation of this investment must have a reasonable justification. First, this investment must be assessed in terms of whether it will lead to further dispersal of medical services in a given market, another staff struggle, another financial struggle, in fact, for medical personnel, etc. I think we have a lot of examples in the Polish system - I look at Mr Klimczak here, because he was the one who asked mostly about this - distributed medical services. It is not good if today in the country several hundred or more than one thousand. entities are realized or the couple are realized because that is what it needs to be called, e.g. Oncological surgery. We have full compatibility in the oncology environment here. This is not a good solution if the subject performs two, three, seven, eight, 10 oncology treatments. It is precisely this assessment of the purpose of the investment that will in some sense affect the fact that it will not be decided freely to create further new branches in places where availability and saturation levels are sufficient. Of course, we have some white spots. Of course, we have areas where we need to fight for more accessibility, but we also have areas where there is really no need for further large, often strategic investments, which will be the most frequent. it ends with the fact that the players who are on the market today are suffering. I'm going to refer very quickly to three specific questions. Purpose is fundamental. The purpose and rationality of public spending are precisely the condition of this law and a certain system of evaluation. Public funds, as Mr Grabczuk said, are often spent by entities with several different entities. These are uncoordinated entities, which everyone - you can say - is trying to pull in their direction. I think we all agree that this doesn't lead to anything good for the health system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will also refer to Mr Klimczak's question. There's no recognition in the OCI. There's an IT system that supports these decisions. The criteria are clear. Providers have long known them. Voivodeships and the Ministry of Health have experience in assessing these criteria. This assessment is, of course, given by a decision against which one can appeal. So that this system is already established. There's no discretion here. Thanks again for your support. I hope that this investment will indeed support the rationality of health expenditure. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to invite the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna April, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u325	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this bill. This law is not only necessary, it is really necessary, because reasonableness in the management of health resources is necessary. This is particularly about reason in the management of human resources. We have quite large limitations and the fight between actors often simply took place on the basis of some psychic principles. Ladies and gentlemen! During this discussion, there were allegations that hospital beds have been removed in the last five years, which means that there is no oversupply. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that a number of hospitals are managed by local governments. In Radom there is e.g. a large voivodship hospital managed by the local government of the Mazowieckie voivodship. In 2016, in a voivodship hospital, Mr. President, contrary to the opinion of the people, contrary to the views of politicians, despite the appeal of the workers... We asked you not to take out 200 beds at the hospital. It ended with the liquidation of 100 beds. Today you leave and say very often that some beds have been destroyed in some voivodship. Very often, it is necessary to examine from whose direction, which social council, who gave this opinion. Very often, Minister, and please pay attention to this, even if the voivode's opinion is negative, the hospitals are doing this right now, I'm sorry to say, a runway and they're eliminating several or even a dozen beds in each ward - knowing that the voivode would have had a negative opinion on the liquidation of a particular branch or two specific wards. Despite the appeals, despite the protests of the inhabitants, such procedures are being carried out. The best example, as I said, is a regional hospital in Radom, in Józefów, where more than 100 beds were removed to save human resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, as corrected. You have one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u327	Thank you, Marshal. Corrected ad vocem, because we generally know very well, everyone who operates or operates in the health sector and deals with investments, knows what you are talking about, for what purpose we are proceding this law. There are cases, however, without naming and pointing out cities, that initially the investment does not get a contract with the National Health Fund, because the whole voivodeship or the whole city thinks that it is unnecessary and only destroys the market, draws away doctors, and then it turns out that when such an entity gets a contract, it sets new standards, standards that start to function also in this only local or state entity. I think the better mechanism is (the bell) competition, good practice... Okay, thank you, sir. ...than the artificial display of boundaries, where you should build and when you shouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u328	You promised me it would be one sentence. It came out a little bit more. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government draft law on the profession of pharmacist (prints No 238 and 663). I kindly ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present a report to the committee. Wait a minute. Wait a minute to clear... Great. Thank you very much. Mr President, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u329	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on the work of the Health Committee on the Government's draft pharmaceutical profession law, print number 238. However, first of all, your Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to thank you very warmly, ladies and gentlemen, masters of pharmacy, pharmacy technicians, pharmacies workers, who with great dedication are taking an active part in the fight against the COVID epidemic. Today, with our heads up, we pharmacists can proudly say: we behaved properly. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the staff of the Polish pharmacies in the face of the pandemic behaved as necessary, therefore, I think, everyone without exception, and the left side of the hall, and the middle, and this right, we bow to all health professionals, here of course I am referring to doctors, nurses, rescuers, lab workers, staff, but when proceeding over the pharmaceutical profession law, special respect and thanks are due to you. Ladies and gentlemen! Procededed bill for which 30,000. Polish pharmacists waited more than 30 years, was widely discussed at meetings of the subcommittee specifically appointed for this purpose and at meetings of the Health Committee. Despite the existing sanitary and epidemiological restrictions, all stakeholders took part in the discussion. It was a fruitful and exhausting discussion. The main purpose of the draft law on the profession of pharmacist is to carry out the postulates set out in the Government's document on State drug policy 2008-2022 to the extent that they relate to matters relating to the services provided by representatives of the medical profession of the pharmacist, as well as to the rules governing the pursuit of this profession, with particular regard to obtaining the right to pursue the profession and the issue of training and professional training. The draft law provides for a comprehensive regulation of the rules governing the pursuit of the profession of pharmacists in one normative act and also provides for a significant increase in the independence of the pharmacist - and this was mainly the subject of a heated and comprehensive discussion. Currently, the rules on the rules for obtaining the right to pursue a profession, the pragmatics of the profession and pre- and post-graduate training are governed by two laws: the Act on Pharmacy Chambers and the Pharmaceutical Law. The current regulations on the pursuit of this profession have been structured, updated and adapted to the current factual situation and have been supplemented by the assumptions of the country's drug policy 2018-2022, with particular regard to the introduction of pharmaceutical care, i.e. the health benefit of a pharmacist to carry out detailed supervision of the individual pharmacovigilance course. The current demographic situation in Poland contributes to the overloading of the system, mainly primary health care. It is therefore appropriate to make better use of the potential of the profession of pharmacists and pharmacists, who today are primarily involved in the distribution of medicines. These over-five years very difficult studies and acquired knowledge should finally be used. The draft adopted by the Commission, together with the amendments, allows pharmacists to make full use of their knowledge and skills, which will result in increased protection of health needs of Poles. Mrs. Marshal! [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to thank all the participants in the discussion and work of both the subcommittee and the committee for this pharmaceutical accuracy, for the discussion. Once again I face you, employees of Polish pharmacies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u330	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Violetta Porowska will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u331	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the draft law on the profession of pharmacists, prints No 238 and 663, which is one of the most important laws in the health system, for which the environment of Polish pharmacists has been waiting almost 30 years. So far, the regulations governing the functioning of the pharmaceutical profession have been structured, updated and adapted to the current factual situation, including the current legal situation, as well as supplemented by the introduction of pharmaceutical care, i.e. the health benefit of a pharmacist to carry out detailed supervision of the individual pharmacovigilance course. The draft law presented to you is the implementation of government demands to strengthen the role of pharmacist in the Polish health system. It focuses on making greater use of the professional potential of the pharmacist and breaks off with the current model of limiting the pharmacist only to the distribution of medicines. The new law extends the competence of pharmacists and directs their work towards clinical aspects, as well as to greater involvement in other areas of health protection. This seems reasonable, natural and expected support for the health system by qualified pharmacists. First of all, the draft law recognises the profession of pharmacist in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. It regulates the rules and conditions of the profession of pharmacist, as is the case with other medical professions. On the bill in the subcommittee, Mr Rychlik has already talked about it, we have worked on it, and I would like to stress this very strongly, in a great coexistence with representatives of various organisations around pharmaceuticals, employers, self-government and entrepreneurs. We've worked in the eye of the first wave of coritos, at first without direct encounters, but with a lot of remote activity. Thank you for all your comments, for all your reflections, for all your suggestions, suggestions, emails, phone calls. Thank you for the good for the pharmaceutical environment, good for patients legal solutions. Thank you for working with me. We have integrated and updated several laws, but in order for this new normative act to be perfect, perfect, at the end of the law and justice club proposes three amendments to the draft law on the profession of pharmacist. The first amendment is an exchange of the word "pharmaceutical" in the words "pharmaceutical." This is linked to a change in the name of this profession. The second amendment concerns the change of the phrase of the official list of medicinal products to the Polish Farmakopeia. The third amendment aims to eliminate the state of overlap with the scope of Article. 80 of the proposed law on the profession of pharmacist and the new wording of the article. 131 of the Pharmaceutical Law Act. With these amendments, Law and Justice, the Law and Justice Club recommends adopting a bill. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u332	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the Health Commission on the draft law on the profession of pharmacists, prints No 238 and 663. Minister! It could really be a good project. The Act extends the scope of services provided by pharmacists for medical services. Thus, it is in some way a burden on the health care system and, above all, this basic medical care by making greater use of the level of the pharmacist. It enhances the role of pharmacists by adding advice on medicines, health education and health promotion, valuable participation in the treatment process of patients, especially those who are increasingly self-medicating on the basis of information taken from the Internet. And that's definitely the desired direction. This law also allows pharmacists from outside the European Union to work in Poland without no formalization of diplomas. Given the problems with employment in different areas, this is certainly a positive direction too. But unfortunately, at the stage of the subcommittee, amendments were made, which simply broke the bill. The most controversial is the amendment adopted in the course of the subcommittee, which allows immediate immobilization of pharmacies or pharmaceutical wholesalers in order to prevent tasks from being carried out by a pharmacy manager, a pharmacy or a wholesaler. Who told you that record, and what is the purpose of such a record? Such a provision can quickly lead to the collapse of many companies, as in most industries the immobilisation of the point of sale, whether wholesale or retail, even for this period of 3 months which you are introducing, simply means bankruptcy and closure of business. Lockdown at the first wave of the COVID-19 epidemic best illustrated this. There is no way that an entrepreneur can survive this kind of business freeze, this kind of inability to generate revenue and profits, because he simply will not have anything to cover the costs. This provision lacks precise indications on the basis of which we could presume that such a decision will actually fall into the final stages and will be well thought out. There is no clarification of these provisions and, as I said, the rules on which the decision will be taken. That is why we will be making amendments today, including among them. is the amendment modifying point 13 of Article. 83, which refers to the possibility of withdrawing the authorisation to operate a pharmacy for breaching the autonomy of the pharmacist, but also to the deletion of point 17 of Article. 83, which is talking about closing the point. This second element, which I have already mentioned, is also unacceptable to us. We want to add the possibility that withdrawal of authorisation is only possible if there is a gross and persistent infringement. We have already discussed this during the committee's work on the subcommittee's report. It is unacceptable for us that the withdrawal of the permit is based on trivial and one-off things, and the record so far would allow it, because it cannot be that because of trivial and one-off things that do not, as a result, restrict the professional independence of the pharmacist, you will withdraw the permit. These are the two key amendments that we will be making today. There are more of these amendments, 11. They are almost identical to the amendments that we tabled in the course of the work after the subcommittee stage, at the committee stage, hoping that you thought about it. And the adoption of these amendments, especially on these key issues that I have been talking about, is subject to the support of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u334	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Left Club, it is my honor to present the position of the club regarding the government's draft pharmaceutical profession bill. The pharmacists are waiting a few dozen years for the profession bill. This fact alone shows how important we are at the moment. It is a professional group of well-educated specialists and specialists, perfectly prepared to provide patients and patients with specialized benefits. Unfortunately, for several dozen years of the Republic of Poland it was a professional group, which was simply forgotten by the health care system, brought into the role of drug sellers. Yes, for 30 years in the Third Republic of Poland, we educate pharmacists and pharmacists in difficult studies so that later in pharmacies they perform roles that are not suitable for their education and competence: warehousekeepers, sellers, drawers, invoicing conquerors. It's like a limousine to drive rubble. Yet the experience of other countries shows that it may be different that pharmacists and pharmacists are an essential part of the health system, that pharmacy is not just a drug store but an important health care facility. Pharmaceutical care, pharmacovigilance, vaccination, preventive or diagnostic examinations, equal cooperation with other medical professions in the treatment of patients is the standard to which we will aim and the pharmaceutical profession law is the first step on this path. There's a lot of records in there that the Left Club supports. Definition of pharmaceutical care and pharmaceutical services, which for the first time in the history of pharmacists and pharmacists will be able to provide in Polish pharmacies. Guarantee the professional independence of pharmacists and pharmacists, especially in the light of the practices of companies aimed at not the patient's well-being, and increase the already enormous consumption of medicines and dietary supplements in our country and the profits of corporations producing and selling these products. Unfortunately, there are also very many shortcomings in this important bill, which, although I have tabled 30 amendments on behalf of the Left Club, remain in it. Pharmaceutical care will not be guaranteed, which calls into question its rapid introduction into the practice of the Polish health system. Again, we are dealing with a translation by the Minister of Health that, instead of reform, there will be piloting pharmaceutical care. This is far too little, and it seems to be an attempt to withdraw when the provisions of the Act are implemented. We tabled an appropriate amendment at second reading. There is a record in this law that makes it possible to refuse the release from the pharmacy of medical devices used in contraception. Here again my amendment excluding them from the application of the article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 point 1 Pharmaceutical law reflects the wall of silence of government representatives. It is a lack of imagination, because already today you can see that organizations involved in limiting access to contraception and abortion work in Poland with the unseen in the rest of the world momentum. It's an opportunity for them to attack women's rights again. Disable this beginning of your conscience clause from the bill. The relevant amendment was tabled. Scope of pharmaceutical care and its standard. There is no delegation for the Minister of Health to issue the relevant regulations. This is another flaw, a legislative vacuum that will make it more difficult to provide pharmaceutical care and services in pharmacies. Pharmacists, although this is justified as ever in times of pandemic, have not been granted the right to carry out vaccinations - powers that work perfectly in other countries when raising influenza susceptibility, and with COVID-19 it would be excellent as one of the tools in the mass vaccination programme for Coronavirus. And now I have a question: don't you want to introduce it because you don't have flu vaccines? That's not an explanation. There is also a lack of authority to order and perform diagnostic and screening tests - another incomprehensible lack. If pharmacists and pharmacists are supposed to do pharmacotherapy, they're supposed to decide what drugs we're going to take, then let's give them these powers, because they're going to allow us to heal better. I hope that the support of our amendments will actually only be a fact and that Law and Justice will make this law much better out of the Sejm than it is now, and will serve pharmacists and pharmacists perfectly, but also to us, patients and patients, and the whole health system. And using the last 15 seconds, I wanted to tell all the women who are protesting on the streets, you'll never go alone. We will protest with you, we will protect you, we will stand on your side because we are fighting for women's rights, we are fighting for what is important to all of us - for the rights [[♪ The bell ♪]] Women, human rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u336	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u337	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! No doubt we have a historic moment. Finally, a law on the profession of pharmacist was established. That is not enough, I believe that this is the most important law that has been made in this House in this term of office. For 30 years, the pharmacists waited. I remember every meeting with pharmacists. At each of them, whether it was the inauguration of the academic year or the ceremony of giving the right to pursue the profession, the topic was always raised in the discussion: there is no law on the profession of pharmacist. But today it is, and no matter how many comments we have to this law, how much, we believe, are shortcomings, how many conflicts have been shown on the canvas of the process of this law, this law is valid, this law is great, not only because of its size, the number of articles. I would like to thank you here because we all know very well, but it must be said that this law was created primarily thanks to the great determination and work of the Pharmacy Chamber, and even the personal involvement of the President of the Pharmacy Council of Elżbieta Piotrowski-Rutkowska, who has been a great advocate and advocate for this law for years. This law, in my opinion, if I were to characterize it in one sentence, gives power to a strong hand in the environment, above all, to the apothecary government. This law gives the apothecary a lot of power, but also responsibility, we must also remember that. In the discussion that was taking place on this bill, it was said that the law gives the apothecary a very large power of power, which no professional corporation has in the medical community. There have been many voices raised that the law is over-regulated and restricts the freedom to conduct business. During the work on this law, a number of issues arose, I think it can even be said that these were controversies, which in fact concerned two areas: the power of apothecary government and economic freedom. First theme. It has been refined, among others. the question of the supervision of pharmacists on pharmaceutical techniques. This fragment of the project has long been a cause of controversy, mainly because of protests by representatives of pharmaceutical technicians. They convinced us that the proposed wording of the law restricts the powers of technicians who will no longer be a stand-alone profession. Our amendments proposed by the opposition in this regard, of course inspired by the environment of pharmaceutical technicians, were rejected, and a similar amendment proposed by the president of the subcommittee was accepted, which clarified that the pharmacist was supervising the student during his professional practice and the pharmaceutical technician on activities outside his mandate. This amendment, which is worth noting, was also supported by the Chief Pharmacy Chamber. Another controversy involved inter alia. records of the need to obtain the guarantee of proper running of the pharmacy by candidates for managers and the opinion of pharmacists seeking authorisation to operate the pharmacy. Doubts on this issue and related amendments were also raised by opposition parliamentary clubs at the request of organisations representing entrepreneurs from the pharmacy market. However, they were all rejected by Members of the Law and Justice. The conclusion is that, at least such voices were raised, that the warranty on the vow is no longer sufficient, it is necessary to issue the same by the pharmacy authority. I think it's de. In fact, manual control of the pharmacy managers. Many records have even caused the intervention of the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, including: to allow the voivodship pharmaceutical inspector to withdraw his authorisation to operate even in individual cases. In a similar tone, legislation was drawn up which allowed pharmaceutical inspection to be carried out by an arbitrary official decision to temporarily close pharmaceutical wholesalers. There was quite a lot of controversy like that. Since my time is limited, I would just like to conclude that this law undoubtedly strengthens the position of a pharmacist, [[♪ The bell ♪]] expands its competence and, above all, strengthens us, patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u338	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland we have regulations governing public trust professions, we have lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, notaries, bailiffs, we also have auditors, court curators, tax advisors, patent attorneys, we have engineers, architects, construction engineers, urbanists, we also have laboratory diagnostics, doctors, dentists, veterinarians, nurses, midwives, psychologists and of course pharmacists. Although I myself am, like many other people, a supporter of the free market economy, I am in favour of full deregulation of professions and voluntary functioning and belonging to professional associations and organisations such as professional authorities, I understand the natural resistance to deregulation of those who have not only been educated in a given direction for years, but have also fulfilled a number of requirements imposed on them by professional authorities. I can also understand representatives of the same local governments who simply want to have as much power as possible. It was one of the motivations of many of the provisions of this law, but no other professional self-government claims rights to competences as far beyond the profession as it is in the case of this law. In no other profession does the local government decide who will be the head of the hospital, who will be the head of the hospital or who will own the clinic. This law is not about less or more regulating the profession of pharmacist, it is about regulating the profession of entrepreneur, regulating the profession of manager, regulating the profession of the owner of a pharmacy, the owner of a pharmacy or a wholesaler, or even regulating the profession of pharmaceutical technician. This is not a pharmaceutical profession law, it is a continuation of an insidious, extremely harmful law from 3 years ago, it is a pharmacy bill for a pharmacist 2.0, a law that led to the collapse of many companies, to the closure of many pharmacies, to bankruptcies, to many human dramas, to the elimination of the achievements of many pharmacies owners, and indirectly to the reduction of the number of jobs for pharmacists themselves and to the reduction of the availability of drugs. This is also led by the scandalous decisions of voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors to close pharmacies maintained by the chief pharmaceutical inspector. I myself, as a Member, have many interventions in this matter and this boot and the arrogance with which I meet on the part of officials who do not want to make documents available to me as part of the parliamentary intervention, is a small head. Notabene is an institution whose head - chief pharmaceutical inspector was arrested this month by the court, among others. for exceeding the powers in the course of their duties. Moreover, these bodies, institutions in many decisions themselves admit that in their case the law works backwards, which is contrary to any standards or principles of Latin civilization. Let's go back to the bill itself, because there were a lot of flowers in the process. As many professional organisations of entrepreneurs and employers point out: BCC, ZPP, Leviatan, two dangerous changes have been made to the project at the parliamentary stage of the subcommittee. The first was to remove from the provision allowing the withdrawal of the authorisation to operate a pharmacy in the event of a persistent violation of the independence of the pharmacist the grounds of persistence. This message protected the pharmacy's owners from a situation in which the discussion, ambiguous circumstances, would be regarded by the pharmaceutical inspection as such an infringement and would be the basis for closing the pharmacy. The second amendment makes it possible to immobilise any pharmacy, pharmacy or pharmaceutical warehouse for 3 months if it is established that it is impossible for the pharmacy manager or the person responsible for the wholesaler to perform the tasks. Again, we are faced with a very far-reaching sanction that can be applied under a very uncertain condition. These amendments to the project may lead to the immobilisation of pharmacies, pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesalers from day to day under immediate feasibility, and in practice this will mean the closure of the facility and even its bankruptcy involving the enormous costs of eliminating medicines which, of course, cannot be sold back to anyone. Of course, this will make access to medicines more difficult, of course it will increase the regulatory risk in Poland, of course even more... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...will lead to abuse by offices, inspections, institutions that close the pharmacy in Poland in mass. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. I'm making amends.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u340	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to comment on the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, the applicant strongly emphasises the role of pharmacists or pharmacists in carrying out diagnostic activities, recalling examples of UK, Australia or Ireland, in which there are specific programmes to support pharmacists in the field of diagnostic services, in particular screening tests for bacterial diseases. Rapid diagnostic tests are also carried out in Spain in some public pharmacies and in Italy. The current diagnostic system in Poland is experiencing huge problems, and part of the research is not available to an average, medium-sized family due to the amounts that need to be spent on them. In view of the current epidemic situation, I have a question: Are pharmacists expected to be involved in the testing process in terms of droplet viral diseases such as COVID-19? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u342	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. There is no Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. There isn't. Mrs. Catherine Kotula, Left. There isn't. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The pharmaceutical profession law is, you can say, the next element, a block of the entire system of laws on the profession of physiotherapist, about the profession of doctor. Right now, you might say, there's a system closing. She was undoubtedly needed, and it was good that it was created. Of course, there are some shortcomings that we see that can actually limit the functioning of pharmacies. It would also be good to reverse the pharmacies Act, which was the result of lobbyists. On the other hand, I have no doubt that this is a law that is needed, and if it is not completely corrupted and some things are fixed, it is worth the support. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing we need to be aware of, and it is worth thanking you for that. The pharmacists really passed the test at the beginning of the pandemic. At a time when it was often impossible to obtain medical advice from even a doctor, the pharmacists actually stayed at their station and actually worked despite the threat. So let's thank them because this is a good opportunity for what they did then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u344	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the committee work I asked this question and I would like to repeat these questions by addressing them to the Ministry of Health. Does the Ministry of Health provide for the equipment in the near future of district governments with legal instruments, other than the application to the Provincial Pharmaceutical Inspector for the withdrawal of the authorisation to operate the pharmacy? Many local governments from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region indicated that there is an urgent need to support local governments to provide residents with 24-hour pharmacies, which is now particularly important in relation to the existing epidemic in our country. Perhaps the issue of contracts with pharmacies on night shift services should be taken over by the National Health Fund, and the local government would only adopt a plan for night pharmacies. The legislator should give local governments through the fund a financial tool to cover pharmacists on night pharmacies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only then should local authorities obtain what they apply for, i.e. the possibility of sanctions. I understand that this is not the case for this law, but in the course of the work on the solutions that we are working on today, I have asked, and I kindly ask you to answer in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u346	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u347	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Art. Section 4 (2) of the proposed solutions introduces a pharmaceutical care institution. That's very good. This pharmaceutical care is to be reimbursed by the National Health Fund. That's also great. My question: Do you not think that, given the patient's well-being and the quality of such care, that the pharmacist performing such a benefit should have a specialization done, e.g. in the field of clinical pharmacy, possibly in the field of pharmacy? And the second question, or actually the de lege ferenda proposal: When will solutions be implemented to partially implement e-prescriptions in different pharmacies? Today we are sort of doomed to buy more drugs at the pharmacy where we started implementing the e-prescription. I also call for this solution in my interpellations with the Members and Members of the Civic Coalition. I hope that we are getting closer (the bell) to this significant facilities for patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u349	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you. I thank all the doctors for standing on the front line in the fight against the COVID. Thank you very much for this great sacrifice. Today we are debating the profession of pharmacist. I don't hide the profession very close to me, because one of my sons is out of pharmacy and worked as a pharmacist. And I'm glad that we're leaning down today and we want to take advantage of the knowledge, skills and experience of pharmacists, because they're extremely difficult studies and it's been really bad up until now that the pharmacist was basically mostly associated with the salesman. Today, this knowledge, this skill should be used absolutely. I think there is a really great chance if you [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll want to accept a few important amendments from most of the Parliament, and we'll make a good bill that will be good for pharmacists, as well as for all the other professions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are very violent protests throughout Poland, especially women, but also men who support them, against taking away women's rights. Access to emergency contraception was also one of those rights taken away during these five years of rule of law and justice. Therefore, the question is: Why didn't the state, when creating the pharmaceutical profession law, prepare a solution that would restore women's rights in the form of access to emergency contraception? That's the first question. And the second - the pharmaceutical profession law is a very good opportunity to ask government representatives how the law and justice government has prepared Poles for access to influenza vaccines, which are fundamental in the face of the pandemic of Coronavirus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u352	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the Left Club assumed the possibility for pharmacists to immunize. Such powers shall be exercised by farmers in 12 countries of the European Union and Norway. The possibility for pharmacists to carry out vaccination would significantly relieve doctors who could spend their precious time on more demanding medical procedures. The fact that the current authority has not taken care of the right number of vaccines does not prevent us from thinking about the future. After all, perhaps in the future there will be a vaccine against hatred.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u355	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The new law will give new competences, extend the powers of the pharmacist. First of all, it's about pharmaceutical care. It will not be easy, quick, painless. This will be a huge organisational, logistical and even mental challenge. We are talking about refunds of this type for pharmacies. My question is: What is your idea of a mechanism for introducing this refund? Is this gonna be a classic health contract? After all, it is said that the pharmacy is supposed to provide basic health care in particular areas. How is this technically supposed to work, and is the State already seeking to secure the right money after the entry into force of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u357	Ladies and gentlemen! The last thing we need in our country is further regulation. Pharmacy also needs radical rebureaucratization and radical deregulation. First of all, an adult should be able to come to the pharmacy and buy the medicine he wants on his own responsibility. Let's stop this futile run for prescription when every citizen has to ask a doctor to prescribe the same medicine as he always does for the 30th time. But no way, we're going in the opposite direction. This law is written not for citizens, but primarily for pharmaceutical lobbyists. While it is good for the citizen when there are as many drugstores as possible - to have as close to his pharmacy as possible, he drove as little as possible, as few accidents along the way caused - we go in the opposite direction. I'm sure there will be no more pharmacies when one pharmacist decides how the other should run the business. It is known that it will come down to the fact that he will try to throw logs at his feet so that these next drugstores do not arise, because in the obvious interest of the apothecary who already has a pharmacy, it is that another (the bell) pharmacy does not arise in his area. We should be thinking about consumers, not lobbyists. Why are you doing this differently?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u358	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of pharmacy, on the subject of pharmacists, it is also worth paying attention to one aspect concerning our security as a state, as citizens, as a nation. It concerns drug safety, i.e. the production of medicines and active substances in Poland. So I ask quite specifically: Is there a program that will allow most drugs and active substances to actually be produced in Poland - whether through deregulations or through some government program? This is information that is of interest to the public today, and COVID has shown that we were not prepared for rapid production in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u360	Thank you, sir. And last question, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and Dear Members, Do you really think that the pharmacists want the local government to decide whether they can become pharmacies managers or not? Because it appears from this law that it introduces provisions extending the powers of the apothecary government to apothecaries. It is proposed that the procedure for changing the head of the pharmacy requires the Regional Pharmaceutical Inspector to ask for an opinion on the candidate for head of the district board of the Pharmacy Chamber. Such a right of professional self-government constitutes a far-reaching interference not only in the pursuit of the profession of pharmacist, but also in the running of a pharmacy company and consequently in the entire pharmacies market. Dobromir Sosnierz was just giving an example. One apothecary in the local government may make it difficult for another to run a pharmacy. There is no such interference in professional activities for nurses or doctors. There are local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't decide if anyone's gonna be hospital manager or chief of staff. Come to your senses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u363	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these questions. First of all, like some of you, I would like to thank all the pharmacists, pharmaceutical technicians and pharmacists for their hard work during this last period, this year, because they really passed the exam. I would also like to thank the pharmacies owners, the pharmacies, who have been supporting their employees, pharmacists and technicians from the very beginning, so that they can provide services to the public as little as possible. Thank you very much for these questions. I would like to thank the various clubs for their long, tedious work in the subcommittee and later in the Health Committee for their comments. Now, I'd like to move on to the questions you've asked here. The first thing that matters most is the comments that concern the independence of the pharmacist. The Act states that the pharmacist pursues a free profession and cannot be subject to the instructions of the manager in the field of his professional activities, namely pharmaceutical care, the provision of pharmaceutical services or the job of a professional pharmacist. There have been a lot of questions about pharmaceutical services, whether public funding is possible. The Act states that pharmaceutical care is a health service within the meaning of the Law on public-funded benefits by the National Health Fund. Therefore, we are now working on non-countable products with stakeholders in this area, because the environment has not prepared what exactly we are going to pay for as the National Health Fund, what a pharmaceutical consultation is going to look like. or a drug review of how this can be done. Now there are a lot more possibilities, because the entire pharmaceutical circulation system is computerized, as well as orders, issuing prescriptions, online implementation. We have all the information we need. We also have information about the availability of medicinal products, and we also use this very strongly. I also wanted to thank you for the fact that last year there was a lot of work here and Minister Cieszyński worked very hard, he practically did a revolution in this area, of course with the owners, pharmacists and technicians - in all scope, in the whole process. About the art. 103 - there was a lot of talk about this article, about withdrawing the authorisation for pharmacies depending on whether the entity, the owner, prevents the performance of professional tasks - I would like to say that these are basic tasks. The pharmacy manager is responsible for basic elements, product safety, medicinal products, billing systems. What he's responsible for can't act against the law can't act against the safety of patients. It's actually just for patient safety. The Provincial Pharmaceutical Inspector may withdraw the permit. This is another tenth condition for the possibility of withdrawing such a decision. This, of course, follows the entire control process. There are a lot of notes to the article. 120 (The Bell) in which we actually reduced the possibilities of withdrawing, removing the decision to immobilize a pharmacy, a pharmaceutical point or a pharmaceutical wholesaler, but only for 3 months. So far it has always been so that it was not defined at all. Of course, as far as the additional provision is concerned, it is only the situation: if there are any deficiencies in the marketing of medicinal products or medical devices. Come to the end, Minister, because it's time... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much. So that I can answer some questions in writing. As for what was said, I will answer in writing. Good. As far as the COVID diagnostic systems are concerned, for the time being, this has to be confirmed by PESEL. Therefore, diagnostic tests cannot be financed yet. 24-hour care - I'll answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u364	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019 (print No 522) together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control (print No 638). I ask the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Mr Marian Banas, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members and Messengers! In fulfilling my constitutional, statutory obligation, I present to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019. The report was approved by the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on 1 July 2020. The mission of the Supreme Audit Chamber is an independent, professional control of public tasks in the interests of citizens and the state. We will try to strengthen the control potential of NIK, among others. thanks to the implementation of the newly adopted first strategy of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2021 and 2024 in 18 years. As the primary body of state control, we will be based on values and principles that we have been faithful to for more than 100 years. Being aware of tradition, we strive for modernity. The Supreme Audit Chamber shall ensure legal, economic, targeted use and sound public settlement. During the reporting period, NIK's control activities focused mainly on issues affecting the sustainability of public finances, the smooth functioning of the State, its safety and the quality of life of its citizens. High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019 carried out a total of 2166 unit controls in 1740 entities. We provided Sejm 102 with information on the results of the planned checks and 99 information on the results of the implementation of the State budget control in 2018. We also conducted research on 93 ad hoc control topics. In carrying out its statutory tasks, the NIK submitted to the Sejm an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy objectives, an opinion on discharge to the Council of Ministers, a report on the activities of NIK in 2018. The Supreme Audit Chamber takes into account suggestions of control topics submitted by the authorities of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. To the work plan of the NIK for 2020, 17 Sejm committees submitted 98 suggestions for audit topics. The Sejm Commission for State Control recommended 53 audit topics. 18 topics have been included in the work plan, the others have already been implemented by NIK or have been carried out in the ad hoc control formula. In 2019 5175 complaints, requests and requests for audits were received from the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was combined in 3463 cases. Parliamentary proposals accounted for almost 2% all complaints and requests sent to the Supreme Audit Chamber. All NIK complaints have been analyzed. The results of the analysis of complaints coming to NIK are one of the sources of the subject matter of ad hoc controls undertaken, which are a quick response to the problems raised. High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber has carried out a number of audits concerning, among others, the functioning of the tax system and financial institutions and the functioning of the institutions of the budgetary economy. NIK checked, among others. supervision of VAT collection, aggressive tax optimization, use of a single control file in tax proceedings and controls, or state of the organisation of the National Tax Administration. In the case of checks concerning the cashiers, in view of the fact that I had previously acted as Minister of Finance and Head of National Tax Administration, in order to preserve the objectivity of this control, I have excluded myself from its supervision, and I have given my powers regarding the process of accepting and approving the results of this check to my alternates. In addition, in 2019 we also audited the ownership supervision of the State Treasury and check-in for managers in strategic companies. It was also important to control the activities of state bodies, entities organising the financial market vis-à-vis GetBack SA, entities offering its securities and auditing them. An assessment of government activities in the field of energy security of the country appeared in NIK's control activities. Transport was also an important area of research. We checked, among others. preparing for the electronic toll collection and ensuring the sound technical state of the national roads. NIK draws attention to the security aspects of the state and its citizens. We checked, among others. implementation of development work for the Ministry of National Defence, operation (Dawn) of the Polish Armed Group and subsidiaries, implementation of the programme of modernization of uniformed services. NIK was also interested in activities related to meeting health needs or solving social problems. NIK examined, among others. availability of psychiatric treatment for children and adolescents, prevention of addiction and patient safety when using antibiotics. In areas: work, family and social security, for example. important social programs - free medicines for seniors 75+, family 500+ or providing palliative and hospice care. The Supreme Audit Chamber also focused its attention on environmental protection. We have studied nature conservation and forest management in the Białowieża Forest and the risks arising from the backlog of hazardous materials at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. Education, culture and national heritage have a key role to play in today's world. NIK has undertaken, among others, control of changes in the education system and implementation of the National Education Network programme or the protection of the cultural heritage of national minorities. The issues of promotion of Polish culture abroad and tourism promotion of Poland were also examined. High Izbo! This Decision shall enter The Supreme Audit Chamber has formulated almost 4,000. Follow-up requests, we have formulated 77 de lege ferenda proposals, we have filed 61 notifications to law enforcement authorities about the possibility of committing crimes or offences, we have made 45 notifications to spokespersons of public finance discipline about the suspicion of a violation of public finances discipline. The tangible effect of our work is the financial results of the audit in 2019. The financial consequences of irregularities identified by NIK are more than PLN 12 billion. The financial consequences of irregularities on the European Union's budget are more than PLN 4.5 million. The financial benefits recorded as a result of the control activities of NIK amounted to a total of over PLN 17 million. As I have already pointed out, on behalf of my own and controllers, I am convinced that our effort really contributes to improving the Polish state. Thank you from this place for the work of controllers and employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I would also like to thank the Members. I would like to stress that this report was assessed by 24 Sejm committees, which positively assessed the implementation of the tasks of NIK for 2019. In several cases, the departments of the Supreme Audit Chamber were also particularly thanked. From this point on, I would like to thank parliamentarians and parliamentarians very warmly for the objective assessment of the professionalism of all controllers and employees of the NIK administration. We are very grateful for the good opinions of the parliamentarians on the Supreme Audit Chamber. High Izbo! At the same time, I would like to stress that, when assessing this report today, you are assessing the hard and responsible work of NIK employees, who are making every day efforts to carry out the NIK mission. These are people dedicated to this institution, public service, state control. High Izbo! Because of the ongoing pandemic and recommended by the government of tightening, for security reasons, all the directors of the various departments and delegations are not present with me, but follow these proceedings remotely. In view of this exceptional pandemic situation, I propose that we respond to your questions in writing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u366	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Commission for State Control at its meeting of 29 September 2020 considered the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2019, print No 522, together with the opinions of the other Sejm committees. This year, as you know, was made up of two parts: the first half-year of President Kwiatkowski and the second half of the year, even incomplete, President Banasi. The Commission had a number of comments, questions to both the first and the second part. In conclusion, on behalf of the Commission for State Control, I submit a request, as in recent years, for the failure to adopt the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u368	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The State audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber is of invaluable importance for the proper operation of the highest authorities and bodies of the State, as it shows existing irregularities in the spending of public funds, which translates into transparency and better use. The detection of errors and shortcomings in this respect is therefore expected to result in a response to improvements in the activities of the controlled entities. I am convinced that the sentence which has been repeatedly stated in this House that the Supreme Audit Chamber must operate in a completely independent manner, and that the auditors must rely on their knowledge and information which they gain during the audit, probably all Members share. No one is more interested than the Law and Justice that the Supreme Audit Chamber controls are full, objective and if they are sometimes inconvenient, it does not change the form of things that any action that contributes to the better functioning of a particular segment of the Polish state, self-government, territorial units will involve improving their quality. High Izbo! The very good quality functioning of the Supreme Audit Chamber by the... inspection procedure with the modernization of the NIK should be an assumption for 2020. Perhaps it will be different from before. As a law and justice club, we share the committee's request not to take the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u370	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u371	Dear Marshal! I was going to say, Mr. President, but your CEO isn't here. High Izbo! Yes, let's be glad that hundreds of professional controllers, impartial and dedicated to Poland are constantly working in the Supreme Audit Chamber. Until the end of August 2019. The Supreme Audit Chamber was chaired by President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, present-day Senator of the Republic of Poland. The Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition does not raise the slightest objections to this period of operation of the House. On 30 August 2019, the parliamentary majority appointed Mr Marian Banasi as President of NIK. One of his first actions, the first decisions was to have the so-called. the opening report, i.e. a document which has been disclosed in the central press, but only in the central press. It covers a number of previous years and in principle does not contain any critical wording at the previous Heads of the Chamber. I sincerely hope that someday I will be able to learn the full contents of this report, but that is not the case. Less than a month later, the free media revealed information putting the new President in a very negative light. For the century of the operation of the Supreme Chamber of Control, you have brought to this institution infamy, searches in the President's office, information about rooms per hour, reports to the prosecutor's office. In such contexts we began to talk about the central control body of our country. PiS first announced that he would force the President to resign, then threatened with the implementation of the famous plan B. CBA against the President with a notification of the crime, and the President himself does not remain in debt, mainly to his deputy Tadeusz Dziuba, who was supposedly appointed by PiS to watch over President Banasio, deprives him of his powers, reports to the prosecution, avoids correspondence. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on State Control, there is an embarrassing spectacle of rejecting further applications to the College of NIK proposed by Mr Banasi. All this from the side is a bit like a mob war of clans. I'm scared when I look at it, the more that the Supreme Auditorium doesn't work well today. In the organizational structure of the company we are dealing with total confusion. The symbol of this confusion is the appointment to the key positions of people without a reviewer's experience, the plejad of directors appointed without a competition, but with the favourite prefix of the President: p.o. - performing duties, just so we're clear - in front of the name. Hit the last days - a team of advisors headed by the personal son of the President. A team called against the law because we don't know the names of all the advisors in question, and we should know them, because that's the statute of the NIK. There is bureaucracy, several dozen internal regulations issued almost in turn, one after another, often completely inconsistent with each other. Even this 2019 report is misleading. NIK uses the wordings which stand in clear contradiction with the audit statements of the same NIK addressed to the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Chamber of Control has always been highly respected and trusted by Poles and Poles. It was perceived mainly by the prism of substantive checks, revealed irregularities. Since your Crystal President took office, the credibility of the chamber has been steadily decreasing. For the first time in the history of this institution, active politicians, your politicians, began to define the control of NIK as political revenge. And probably we, the opposition, could wipe our hands by observing this fratricidal struggle within the governing parliamentary majority, if not for the fact that it is the Supreme Auditorium, one of the most important institutions in our Poland, a work created in various stages of our history by such excellent figures as Józef Higersberger, an unrepentant professor of my Silesian Alma Mater Valerian Panko or later President Lech Kaczyński, a company that has been strong for years [[♪ The bell ♪]] work, courage and involvement of serial controllers, an organization in which for years DNA has been inscribed impartially and apolitically. Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't our war. This is war. at your camp. We're not gonna support your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019. In a healthy situation, in a healthy country, the adoption of the report by the Supreme Audit Authority of the Republic of Poland by the Sejm should be a pure formality. In a healthy country, Members should focus on substantive issues, the work of a thousand NIK controllers. In a sick country, the vote on the report on the control of the activities of key authorities of government, the National Bank of Poland, state legal entities, local authorities, municipal organisational units from the point of view of legality, economy, purposefulness, reliability unfortunately has a political dimension and we have to admit with sadness, another act of struggle for power. Ladies and gentlemen! Voting on the Supreme Audit Chamber report This is not a vote on pseudonyms - armored, crystal or non-sinkable. The vote on the report NIKO is not a pliers for the president of Banas, not a file for the claws of Prime Minister Kaczyński, and not chips, which can be placed in the political field of the game. The Left wants a healthy state and a healthy approach to today's report. But the Left will not be part of your wrestling. Today's report by the Supreme Audit Chamber is primarily a review of the implementation of the state budget for 2018, 2166 substantive checks, 5735 pending requests for control and complaints from citizens. We hold in our hands a summary of the effect of the hard work of a thousand NIK controllers. These robustly prepared audit reports serve us, parliamentarians, journalists, prosecutors, local government officials and all interested in the basic knowledge of the many irregularities in our country's operation. I would like to recall a few of them to the High House, because they show where the disease affected our country last year. These are reports of irregularities in the functioning of the Polish arms group and subsidiaries, lack of effective protection from the Polish state for the customers of GetBack, the failed investments of KGHM, which have brought billions of losses to this company of the Treasury, the lack of an efficient system of external examinations in education, insufficient protection of the Białowieża Forest, badly implemented hospital health insurance for Poles - today we feel this effect - or, from the turn of the year, with a disastrously low level of recovery of property derived from crime, just PLN 2.7 billion of estimated 500 billion that the criminals collected. Reports from this year show that the disease is taking over the rest of our country. We've got another organ attack from our country and a relapse. However, it is the High House and the parliamentarians who know very well, and that is what we will be discussing next year, examining the 2020 report. On behalf of the Left, I have an appeal to allow NIK to carry out his constitutional tasks. I call for the creation of independent working conditions for the House controllers and for the cessation of bad practices and accountability to those who are trying to undermine the independence of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I call on the High House to accept 77 requests from de lege ferenda addressed to us. The Sejm has clear guidelines where to fix the law, and we will not do it overnight, these are legislative proposals that have been on the table for many months. Finally, I thank all the auditors of the Supreme Auditorium for their good work. We value you and thank you for all you do for our country. However, we will not participate in today's political games of NIK. We will not vote for or against. This isn't our game. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u374	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u375	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! We listened to the report a few minutes ago, i.e. The opinion of the Commission for State Control, but also the voice of the club's Law and Justice Club, and probably many listeners may be asked what the PiS is all about. After all, during all the previous four years of the previous term of office, both the opinions of the audit committee - taken by the majority of the PiS - and the club evaluation of the group were also negative. One could say that time and circumstances are changing, while the feelings of Law and Justice for the Supreme Chamber of Control are permanent, or negative. And surprisingly you have your CEO, because you have pointed him out, and in the role of Vice President - the main censor of the actions of NIK in the previous period, so it is really an event and a really counterproductive attitude. And I can say that you are hurting and wrong, you are unfairly judging the work of hundreds of controllers, people very involved in fulfilling the mission of this institution, an institution very well rated by citizens, by society. Recently, we entered into the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and in the Decree establishing the principles and presented values such as honesty, integrity, conscientiousness, inquisitiveness, objectivity, which are principles - I am deeply convinced about it - also led in the work of inspectors and staff of the Chamber in 2019, implementing the work plan of the NIK for this very year 2019. A total of 195 proposals for audit topics were submitted to the NIK's work plan for the reporting year, including the Sejm and Senate bodies. In 2019 the Supreme Audit Chamber also carried out 2166 unit controls in 1740 entities. The control activities of NIK are intended to provide and provide the authorities of the Republic of Poland and the public with knowledge of the functioning of the State and the fulfilment of public tasks. This serves to draw up and make public information on the results of the checks. This information as a final report summing up the results of the planned or ad hoc audit is valuable material, valuable knowledge of economic and social developments. It can also be - and should be - a reason to take corrective, corrective action. High Seym! The third part of the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019 contains information on the results of the audit on the general theme.: Implementation of the State's tasks in the light of the control of NIK. Among the controls completed in 2019 in the area of agriculture, particular attention should be paid to changes in the organisation and functioning of the agricultural administration. And that's where we read it? Well, here the quotes - the abolition of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency and the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre have been incorrectly prepared and incorrectly implemented, which has adversely affected the situation of employees of notified entities, organizational order and organizational state of the new structure of NIK. NIK concluded that no criteria for the admission of workers to NKR were identified and that protection from redundancies of persons in a particular situation of life was not regulated, e.g. Pregnant or pre-retired women. These are allegations and assessments very strong, even disqualifying people who are introducing this supposedly reform. Further, another example from the rural area, namely the Supreme Audit Chamber, carried out an audit of the financing of voluntary firefighters' activities. And what's been found? There was an allegation that, prior to the introduction of these changes, had been permanently exploited, namely the NIK found that there were no uniform rules determining the order in which hardware and training needs could be met, on the basis of which there could be a reasonable allocation of public resources from a number of sources for the operation of TSOs. The allocation of resources - and I quote - to the activities of TSOs was not always determined by the role they played in the fire protection system, their potential and activity. After all, this is the disqualification of this nationalized system of distribution of money, public money. These are the results of the audit of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019. High Seym! I have the impression that these (the bell) of necessity short examples that expose the PiS state are the reason for the negative opinion of the Law and Justice Club and the majority in the Commission for State Control. We do not share that view. We thank all the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber for their enormous, reliable work, for their reliable approach to socially important economic phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u376	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Supreme Audit Chamber It's an extremely important, important institution. It is an institution that is supposed to look at hands and is very important especially today, when - as I said in May from this speaker - unfortunately we have seen a time when again the party is standing above the state, when everything that concerns not only the government, but even the elections, when two Jarosławs met: Kaczyński and Gowin, and there they agreed that the elections would be then and then, the presidential elections - of course, we are talking about it. Then I said from this speaker that after 30 years we were again faced with a situation in which the party of all - you are nothing. It is all the more appropriate to consider the phenomenon in which the Supreme Chamber of Control is headed by a man known for decades of patriotic activity, activity still during communism, an activity showing its spine. Of course, there are charges, but these charges have not yet found any confirmation except for the media. And if someone is not convicted by a court in Poland, then I remind everyone that we have a presumption of innocence, everyone who is in such a hurry here with various speeches about it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the most astonishing and outrageous thing for me, although unfortunately in line with the logic of the last five years, that a party which has been going not so long ago under the slogan of the IV Republic of Poland, under the motto of healing relations in the state, under the slogan of transparency of the state, under the slogan of a country in which there is no place for classified agreements and which is based on law and justice, on procedures, on efficient institutions, that this party today fights with the Supreme Chamber of Control. Only because it turned out that the man nominated there is not a free tool and cog in the hands of the party. Well, honorable PiS, this has nothing to do with the idea of the Fourth Republic, which you have wiped your mouth for a long time. Circle of the Confederation will recommend the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, i.e. He'll be against the PiS's motion for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u378	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation as one of its postulates in the last year has submitted a draft amendment so that the control bodies we have in Poland, i.e. The Supreme Audit Chamber or the Central Anti-corruption Office were filled by the parliamentary opposition to have its representation there. And that would be a mechanism that in a fairly clear and simple way would allow the opposition to control the people who rule. We also systematically apply for further checks, including. We applied for control on public television, what expenses were specifically there. It is also about the control of regional TVP centres. We have also reported and further requested to verify what is happening at PGE EJ 1. To this day, we have no specifics about the nuclear power plant. Do we know, in fact, what caused the pollution of the Bay of Puck and thus the Gulf of Gdansk and the dramas of many people who live from the sea, from fishing, because they are unable to fish in the Baltic fishing today, for example. cod had its own sawmill in the vicinity of Puck Bay or Gdansk Bay? These problems should also be explained, and NIK should work here too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know perfectly well what the internal struggle between Law and Justice and Marian Banas was like. In this situation, our demand for opposition in a de facto control function can be fulfilled. We're counting on it to turn into law, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u380	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! In the report you inform about the conduct of, among others. two controls: the first - the supervision of voivodships on lawmaking by the authorities of local self-government units, and the second - on activities in the field of competence of local self-government units. In the opinion of NIK, the surveyed voivodships did not always comply with the statutory obligation to supervise local lawmaking by local government units in a reliable and lawful manner. The Supreme Chamber of Control also negatively assessed the granting of authorisations to the tasks of local self-government units by voivodships, starosts and marshals of voivodships. It is good that you paid attention to this, and I have also paid attention to these omissions, while still working in the local government. But in order for me to have complete information about this, I'd like to ask you one more time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] can be in writing, about detailed information on the subject concerning the Silesian Voivodeship and local self-government units in the Silesian Voivodeship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u382	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, you're not here! I would like to thank you on behalf of both my Parliamentary Left Club and myself for initiating controls at the Material Reserve Agency at our request. I am convinced that the audit to be carried out at the agency will reliably reveal the scale of negligence and hasty decisions taken immediately before the first wave of the COVID-19 epidemic. One example of such decisions in the Material Reserve Agency was the sale of over 60,000. full-face masks that have gone to private entities instead of health care units. I hope that the audit will be carried out in a reliable and objective manner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u384	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the Minister of Education in the years 2016-2018 illegiblely prepared and introduced changes in the education system. I would like to ask whether NIK has examined the state of implementation of the central educational platform for which the Ministry has already spent public funds, and in the coming years another million are planned to absorb this investment. In parallel with the work on this platform, agreements were concluded with major IT giants. We know that two very well-known IT entities have proposed the construction of large server rooms near Warsaw. I would like to ask if almost all schools today have educational platforms in place, otherwise they could not do their business. Has the NIK examined this area and (The bell) established the scale of state budget expenditure on contracts concluded with IT companies and duplicated systems created from taxpayers' money by companies carrying out an order from the Ministry of Education? If your Marshal permits one more sentence, I would like to thank all the employees of the NIK for carrying out the mission of the Supreme Chamber of Control. Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u386	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I ask for information on compliance in 2019 but also on control in 2020, the compliance of the electoral process in Poland with the electoral regulation and the law on political parties. We are all witnessing that in recent years the authorities have used all possible state institutions for electoral agitation, to support Law and Justice, Andrzej Duda. We had very many examples of this in 2019, in 2018, when the resources of voivodships, ministries were used, and we all know exactly that public money, which is intended for public television, is 100% used only for propaganda. I've been filing notices on this case with the D.A.'s office. We know perfectly well that the D.A.'s office is a tool in political hands. I expect the Supreme Board of Control to investigate this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've been dealing with extremely apparent manipulation, e.g. in Poznań in 2019, when Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz organized a conference worth more than PLN 0.5 million, attended by dozens of people, and the advertising of this conference was posted throughout Poznań. There is no doubt that this is the use of administrative resources in public campaigns. Thank you very much. That's exactly what TVP does, and that's disgraceful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth noting that our discussion on the report on the activities of NIK, the Supreme Audit Chamber, listens to two Members representing the Law and Justice. And that's a shame, because my question, which I want to ask in the footsteps of my interlocutors, the employees of the Supreme Auditorium, is that I want to put in their direction, and that of your president, who isn't here either. Sometimes I talk to them. Many of the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber in my region, in my voivodeship, are my former students, so we often have the opportunity to talk about how we work today in the Supreme Auditorium. Do you know what they're telling me? They're saying that today, working in the Supreme Chamber of Control looks a little bit like what it looked like to be the worst of the presidents in the dark times of the '80s. Mieczysław Moczar, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that today nothing works as it worked for Valerian Panki, Jack Jezierski or Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. My question to the right of the room: Why, why and in the name of what values have you brought to such a critical situation of the Supreme Auditorium? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u390	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u391	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Your CEO isn't here. High Izbo! But I will ask this question, although the recent events and information that flow about the activity, the functioning of the Supreme Audit Chamber, tell us to treat the House with a great deal of reserve, because the decisions taken by the President and even the cases of the employment of loved ones indicate that we are not necessarily dealing with the performance of this function which is at issue today. But I want to ask you about the toll system. We all remember when Minister Adamczyk buńczczułem announced that here you are taking control of the toll system, it will be cheaper, better and faster. I'm asking you to explain, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether it really was better, because we all see today that it doesn't work, that the person who served, still serves, the state companies and companies didn't manage it, and only the intermediaries who charge for mediation arrived. Therefore the question, Mr President: How much did the Polish state lose on this failure to take over the toll collection system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u392	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I join these words of colleagues expressing their gratitude for the work of controllers, for their determination, so that we have a full picture of the functioning of our country. And a question. Mr President, I know that last year, during the past year, the control of the state company of Polish Waters took place. She's revealed a lot of irregularities. Given the role of this institution, this farm in times of drought, in times of extremely needed investment in this field in Poland, I wanted to ask if the next year also there is a planned comprehensive control of the state enterprise of Polish Waters in terms of the correctness of the processes and tasks carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u394	Thank you very much, sir. The President promised that he would answer all the questions in writing. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber be rejected in 2019. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 minutes 01 hours 21 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra (prints No 682 and 702). Marshal, I'm sorry, but there's no Minister here... The Minister will be remotely... May I make a request? I would ask the representative of Boris Budka's applicants to provide a justification for the proposal. With a formal application. The formal proposal was made by Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are in an emergency situation, a motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, and the room on the right is empty. There are no representatives of the PiS, and above all there are no representatives of the government. How's it gone? I understand that Minister Ziobro wants to connect with us remotely, but this is a joke. not only from the High Sejm, but it is primarily a mockery of Poles who are watching us at the moment. Time out. How is the situation in our country going to stabilise? How can it be different if there are no government representatives in the situation we are in right now who can answer the questions that will be asked here today? I submit, Your Marshal, a formal request for a recess until government officials sit on this bench until Prime Minister Morawiecki sits here, who is responsible for this government and is responsible for the pandemic situation and the security situation in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And the pandemic is...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u396	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 05 hrs. 21 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 12 of the agenda. I would very much like to ask Mr Boris Budka to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today's debate on the vote of distrust is symbolic. This debate is an act of indictment, an indictment not only against the Minister of Justice, but against the entire government of PiS, and in particular against Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, [[Applause]] who has been formally responsible for the security of Poles since 6 October and has been a political overseer of the Minister of Justice since 6 October. Yes, I also accuse you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński. I accuse you of destroying the Polish justice system by working together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice. You have led to the stubbornness of the National Judicial Council and the takeover of the Constitutional Tribunal by political nominates, with your social discovery at the head. I accuse you that by entrusting a politician with the role of attorney general, you have led, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński, to total submission of the prosecution of one political party to your party. I accuse you of destroying the Ministry of Justice by building a ministry of lawlessness and retaliation, a ministry of revenge and hate, destroying the law, ruining the independence of judges and the independence of prosecutors. I accuse you of creating a mechanism of intimidation and blackmail, a mechanism to give you absolute power, power through fear, from the prosecution and part of the judiciary. I accuse you of building a Byzantine mechanism of impunity for a power camp. Today, surrounded by police cordon and prosecution, you may, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński, feel unpunished and out of control. You put in place an impunity+ program for the guys, friends of your ministers, arms dealers, so that in times of pandemics they could go public with impunity, endangering the health and lives of millions of citizens. I accuse you that in difficult times of pandemic, instead of protecting the health and safety of Poles, you use the prosecutor's office to intimidate doctors. In this way, you destroy trust in the health care system in the most difficult time for it. And now the hardest of possible accusations: I accuse that, acting together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, you risk the health and life of thousands of Poles and Poles when in the middle of a pandemic you set Poland on fire. Yeah, you'll have blood on your hands. [[Applause]] I accuse you that, acting together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, you have started a world-view war for the political interest, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński, in a time of plague, in a time of the worst threat to the health and life of Poles for decades. I accuse you that, acting together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, you consider women to be a worse category and you want to deprive them of the protection offered by the anti-violence convention. The savior of women. I accuse you that, acting together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, you use your subordinate services to repress the Polish women. You're scaring the prosecutors of women who fight for their rights. You're right, I'll use your words yesterday: this is an unprecedented escalation of criminal behavior. Yeah, your behavior. [[Applause]] Because it's never happened before that a public servant openly threatens millions of Poles. I accuse you that, acting together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, you have provoked demonstrations in a time of pandemic. I'm accusing you of fueling hate because you guys specialize in it. Hate is your weapon that you aimed at women today. I accuse you that by working together and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, you have built an illegal, repressive mechanism for strangling a legitimate social protest. You've built a system that ends with the word "dictature." Yeah, there's no need to be afraid of that word. It's a pure dictatorship, it's a Luke's dictatorship. What is happening in Poland is an example of events from Minsk, and the role of the Ministry of Justice begins to be the same as the role of its Belarusian counterpart. [[Applause]] Today you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński, have confirmed all these allegations. You confirmed them in your message - in a message in which you sounded exactly like General Jaruzelski when he announced the introduction of martial law. Mr. Kaczyński! Why do you hate Poles so much? Why do you hate Polish women? Why do you hate Polish youth? Why do you feed on hatred? You need to know, and I'm telling you today that hatred is blind, that hatred is like a venom that sips itself, that poisons the life of a man. Today, while feeding on hatred, you call for civil war, for one Pole to jump down the throat of another Pole to hate his neighbor so that his father would renounce his son so that his mother would renounce her daughter. You announced that you would turn your party into militias to fight protesting women. What do you want, Mr. Kaczyński? You want more situations like the one from yesterday when a man cut his face with a knife, attacked people coming back from a protest, screaming that some... they weren't gonna protest him here? Mr. Kaczyński, you have crossed every line, you have shown that you will not hesitate to use against protesters forces, police and troops. And you must think you're tough, brave. No, the fact that you're hiding behind an entire apparatus of violence, giving orders is not a sign of strength, it's a sign of weakness. [[Applause]] Yes, Mr. Kaczyński, you're a coward. Again, you're a coward. You haven't even come to this debate to defend the minister who is formally your responsibility. And I promise from this place that you will be responsible for this act of aggression against defenseless Poles. And so is anyone who will follow your orders, because this is a crime, and for that you and every member of your government will face the moral condemnation of millions, but above all, the Court of State. I have nothing more to say to you, because right now I would like to address those protesters on the street, these Polish people and supporting them men: We are with you. Remember, you can always count on our help, both parliamentarians - Members, Senators, as well as friends and defenders. You'll find legal assistance in the civil coalition politicians' offices. Do not be afraid to approach us during the demonstration when you are harmed by power. You will also receive support and assistance there. We will win this battle of decency, we will win this fight for the future of Poles, but I ask you one thing: do not be provoked, because that is what this power is all about, this provocation. [[Applause]] Today they will pretend to defend some values, they will try to provoke you, but once again I implore you: be wiser than them, follow the values, values that these people have long forgotten. And that's where I'm gonna end this speech and my presence in this room, because today I belong next to protesters on the street, Poles and supporting men. But that is where you should be in front of the Seym besides us, Mr. Kaczyński, for once, so that you may be a man to show the courage you like to talk about, because today you should go there and say a simple word: sorry, I apologize for what you are doing to millions of Poles at the moment. And one more thing. Today it was an indictment, but I am announcing from this place that the next political act will be to file a motion for a vote of distrust against you. [[Applause]] You haven't grown up to be the role you play. The Lord wanted to be a retired savior of the nation, and you became a man who, through his hatred, set his homeland on fire. And that's never gonna be okay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u398	I would like to ask Mrs Anna... With a formal application, may I? Please, a formal proposal, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u399	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is a very important conclusion and Mr Ziobro should, of course, be cancelled for these five years of inability of justice, but with the presence of the Prime Minister, I would like to say that he cannot get out of our sight, from the first plan to fight COVID. It's getting worse and worse today, over 16,000. Infected, medical rescue teams don't go to cardiac arrests, the situation is really tragic, there are no ambulances, there's really no coordination, you've lost control of this epidemic. It cannot be that other topics, important, exciting, will obscure something that has been the biggest disaster since World War II. We've never had an epidemic like this before. It is necessary, Prime Minister, during the break I request, to provide information. You should provide information at every session of the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and tell Poles the truth about the future and what will be in a few days, not surprising decisions, saving the economy, saving health, saving Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u400	Thank you, sir. And I ask Anna Milczanowska to present the opinion of the committee. There isn't. She forgot. It's Birch, it's Birch. At the protest. And she's all white. The whole government stood up for Ziobra. We're waiting, Marshal. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Everything's falling apart, even the debate. The Sejm has been ignored by the Member, the punishment is due. As the first Member, Mr Piotr Sak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Like a prosecutor, like an indictment. Oh, here comes the arm. Completely misplaced charges. It's a disaster. It's up to the court to decide. But seriously, ladies and gentlemen. I address you as an opposition in the first words of my speech: you have had an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to remain silent. Unfortunately, you did not take advantage of this opportunity, but it was advised by your creator and creator, and now the widely known Internet troll and the first grunt on the economic emigration of Mr. Donald Tusk. Anyway, from your opposition... Don't insult people... ...the environment has not spared you the words of criticism for a completely meaningless conclusion, a thoughtless conclusion from the perspective of... Kara, your marshal, your punishment. ...political pragmatism. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I was even deluding myself, I thought you might have some kind of autoreflexion, you will withdraw from this idea, and you will not, especially since two months ago we stood here and talked about a motion of distrust towards Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. No, it's not. You're still going to amateur school. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the conclusion that you are lowering the average level of opposition in the world, for you are most likely the weakest Polish opposition in the Holocene. Maybe I overreacted because you can compare ex aequo with the 2015-2019 opposition. Like opposition, like government. The Minister and his colleagues, vice-ministers and representatives of the National Public Prosecutor's Office both at our July meeting and yesterday for many hours have shown you the results of the prosecution's actions against a comparative background with your actions. You guys are so throaty here today, you score, you try to score, but really do your homework and compare your actions as you did. And here it was in a very essential, condensed manner presented. There were facts, not opinions, evaluations. 'Cause in your conclusion, it's just crawling with adjectives and grades, but it's really just a bunch of merology. Ladies and gentlemen, as it turned out, only then did you simulate listening. You are completely insensitive and insensitive to knowledge and information. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro and his team will deal with your arguments. Having a short time here and knowing for sure the cheering from your marshal, in such an essential and condensed way I will present such key issues. Three minutes of nonsense, and now it's worth it. Look, maybe you'll have a spark of knowledge here, because for now there's just ignorance and ignorance on your part. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro has initiated the fight against the scandalists. Where's Budka? What do you mean, with people? We remember what it was like in your day, right? That the State Treasury was like a crook, from which the specks were siped into a variety of criminal ointments. What about the towers? They dealt with the VAT mafia, dealt with the drug mafia, dealt with the drug factories, reprivatization mafia. What are you guys You've been capitulating. You threw a white towel. That's what it looked like. Where are the towers? Many solutions have been introduced that improve the safety of Poles and which have not been resolved by you. It was finished with impunity, for example, car crooks who were twisting the counters. Criminal rules have been tightened for drunken road pirates. Finally, a real, free help for Poles was introduced from the real event. We brought it in. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is a kind of tradition and a scenario that, when the opposition does not know what to do with itself, there is no idea and concept for itself, it does not present rational legislative proposals, it makes a motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your routine procedure. It's really boring. It's tedious. You're as predictable as the script and the action of the show, some kind of telenovela from South America. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you are showing this proposal and Mr Budka's statement a disturbing confusion about the border between a reliable, substantive polemic with the Minister's actions and the directing of purely speculative, illusory, accusing accusations that are completely detached from reality. Undoubtedly, the difficulty of the task faced by the rapporteur cannot justify such desperate attempts to dissuade the Minister's actions at such an elementary level. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the secretness of your heart and mind, you are aware of the vastness of the bizarreness... Time's up. ...and the charges, and the statements you're directing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time's up. You know, after all, having Mr Budka here, you sent him on a lost and insane mission... Thank you, thank you. ...tonobilitate your proposal, but unfortunately Mr Budka did not only strengthen it, but failed you and only further plunged and weakened it. All this means that the Law and Justice will vote against the motion for a vote of distrust. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u402	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. I'd like to ask you all to remain calm in the courtroom. Then it'll be easier to process. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All of Poland is boiling with anger. We've had enough. Today we are talking about the non-business of pseudo-tribulation. We say not the beastly rules forcing women to give birth to terminally ill children. We say that human rights should not be reduced and women should be tortured. We speak of a power that does not matter to citizens. Not on the subject. And we say not the Minister of Justice, who was one of the main directors of the attack on the Constitutional Tribunal. High Izbo! Today we present a motion for the cancellation of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra - one of the main people with political responsibility for the destruction of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. And today we know exactly what the fight was about. An independent tribunal, a rule of law, a constitution. We have all fought for an independent tribunal just so that the current authority does not impose illegal, beastly laws ordering the birth of sick fetuses and many other beastly laws. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Not only this role in destroying the Constitutional Court, but also actually the state of justice itself would be sufficient to justify Zbigniew Ziobro's cancellation. The list of these unacceptable actions, Zbigniew Ziobra's behavior is very long and extends every day. Today, however, we have a special reason to cancel Zbigniew Ziobro. He is one of the persons directly responsible for the inhuman and violation of the fundamental rights of women by a misdirection. Zbigniew Ziobro as Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General fully supported the motion of a group of Members who led to this pseudo-judgment of the Court. Minister Ziobro thus took on the moral responsibility for the dramas of women, which result from this misrepresentation, for death, for disability, for suffering to which it will lead. If he had any honor, he'd resign himself today. Minister Ziobro simply confused the role of minister with the role of guardian of ideology. To the persistent violation of the Constitution, he added this treatment of women, the deprivation of their dignity. If he had any sense of decency, he'd resign himself. Zbigniew Ziobrze is also responsible for the fire, which was started on the streets of Polish cities, for the fury of women, for bringing people in the middle of the epidemic into the streets, for provoking protests so as to inefficiently hide the helplessness and incompetence of the entire government in the fight against the coronavirus. If he felt even a little responsible for Poland, he would have left today. But I do not think that honor, decency, responsibility are the qualities of Zbigniew Ziobra even to the slightest extent. That's why it has to be canceled. [[Applause]] It is also the right time to ask the Members of the United Rights the question: Do you really want to defend him? Absolutely. The day before yesterday thousands of Poles and Poles protested on the streets of Polish cities. Yesterday tens of thousands of women blocked streets throughout Poland. Tomorrow, hundreds of thousands of women will be on strike. Do you really want to wait for millions? Really? [[Applause]] Oh, dear. They protest not only the largest cities, but also small towns and towns, from Siemiatic to Gubin, from Darlov to Sanok. They protest high school girls, pensioners, teachers, entrepreneurs, single mothers. We're not deaf, we don't have to scream. Don't think with all the hints of a state of emergency you'll be able to stop the protests. The call, which was given by Jarosław Kaczyński a few hours ago, is an extremely irresponsible tightening of the situation. How else do you understand the speech of the Deputy Prime Minister for security matters Jarosław Kaczyński? Is this an announcement of the PiS martial law? What's the point of calling the PiS members into the streets? Does Jarosław Kaczyński really want to bring down the members of the PIS with those who are protesting? Does he want bloodshed? What you can hear when you open the window is a polite request so far. Infuriated women can be more forceful. Show yourselves at least a little responsibility that your political leader lacked today. Start by canceling with us Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u404	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are looking for a motion of distrust against Zbigniew Ziebra, for the horror of the Minister of Justice. It would be more appropriate to call this department under the authority of the Ziobra Ministry of Injustice and the Ministry of Lawlessness, the Ministry of Buddyhood or, most fully, the central center for collecting hooks for opposition and so-called. Friends from the PiS. Let's look at how justice works under the rule of law eagles from the sign of minister zero. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Where you don't put your ear, there's helplessness, incompetence and collapse. Improving court proceedings? Zero. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Accelerate the prosecution's procedures? Zero. Voice from the room: Less than zero. Zero? What zero? Sorry, sorry - turbo speed and efficiency if you need to start a machine against inconvenient politicians and insubordinate citizens, especially citizens. Cheaper legal proceedings available to citizens? Zero. Helping the victims of crime? Zero. What do we got? Zero. Collaboration of the resort with fundamentalists. Do you remember the case of an IKE employee who called for hate? Who's our brave prosecutor after instead of fighting hate and discrimination? A castle IKE-i. [[Applause]] Yeah, the D.A.'s office bets on the labour courts today. I mean, it's been a long time since they've caught all the thieves, the allies, or the perpetrators of domestic violence. That's what we have standards in the Ziobra state. Ladies and gentlemen, this D.A.'s office is a political tool. These are matches in the hands of a pyromaniac. For years, the prosecution has been involved in action against human rights. She dances the way her fundamentalists and extremists play. The prosecution under Ziobra is a promotion of hatred for women. Not long ago, instructions were sent to the D.A.'s office to prosecute people who had aborted the pregnancy. Who prepared it? Ordo Iuris. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the tentacles of a private foundation conduct the Polish justice system. Recently, the Attorney General supported the so-called. Constitutional Tribunal of Fundamentalists in the fight against Polish women. He argued that forcing Poles to heroism and give birth to dead children was supposedly in line with the Polish constitution. We have a Catholic minister, not a Minister of Justice. [[Applause]] The Justice Fund has long ceased its original role. He became the source of public money to finance Ziobra's political needs and his adjutants. Where's the funding for the victims of violence? Where did the money of Poles and Poles go to rehabilitate prisoners? Where's the money to help the victims? How much did you spend on this? Zero. And for Rydzyk, millions. Yes, millions have gone on the dubious reputation of a foundation for exorcists who cast out demons using salceson. The Ministry of Justice under Ziobra became a center for promoting hatred. How else can we call generous awards for those self-governments who were infamously denied EU funding for projects for promoting prejudice against minorities? And the fact that the law was broken and the money was granted even when the government didn't ask for it? It's okay. Who's gonna charge Ziobra with violating a public officer's authority? The D.A. that Ziobro is overseeing? Now let's look at the effectiveness and speed of the prosecution's proceedings. Let's take a look at the ministry's lying messages. I quote: Over four years of validity of the Act - The Law on the Prosecutor's Office showed that the introduced model of the system and organisation of the prosecution turned out to be correct and legitimate. Lie, lie, and paint grass green. This prosecutor's office hasn't protected citizens for a long time, this prosecution has long lost its original function, this prosecutor's office is today becoming a weapon in the fight against anyone who stands in the way of a sick vision of a deadly state. Example: prosecuting judges for their case law. That's the worst example of how you can trample on a judge's independence. Let us remember these names: Irena Majcher, Igor Tuley, Beata Morawiec, Wojciech Kożewski, Paweł Juszczyszyn, Agnieszka Rękas - judges who dared to ask questions for a preliminary ruling on the rule of law. This is your remorse. High Izbo! In view of the above, having regard above all to the safety of Poles and Poles, and also to the good name of our country, the Left will support the vote of distrust towards Zbigniew Ziobra. The sooner he's out of sight, the better. But we still know your colleagues won't give you a gap. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Regardless of the scale of your vileness, your incompetence, they're probably already waiting with flowers, even virtual ones. But you know what? There's no point in wasting your precious time. Thank you very much. That's why today, while you've gone to the worst and sentenced Poles to torture and suffering, all you have to say is that you've prepared our sisters, our mothers, our friends... Thank you very much, sir. ...and my friends are in hell. Thousands of Poles... Mr President, you have exceeded your time. You're welcome... I'm almost done, Marshal. Thousands of Poles have been telling you what to do in the streets for days. Apologize and you already know what it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome to watch your time. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Don't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS that the opposition wants to cancel Minister Ziobra. I mean, a few weeks ago, you were gonna call him off. The communal news was that Prime Minister Morawiecki did not want to have Minister Ziobra in his government, so don't be surprised today that the opposition severely reviews the actions of Minister Ziobra. [[Applause]] Self-restraint and vassal of the independent prosecutor's office. Repression and harassment of independent prosecutors. Destroying independent courts and institutions associated with them and ruining the law. Placing justice in accordance with the BMW principle: passive, mediocre, but faithful. The staff collapse in the courts, which today causes that... The deadlines were supposed to be shorter. Why? They're extenuating. They stopped serving because they're ashamed. For the repression of independent judges. For triggering proceedings against Poland in the European Union and threatening to block Poland's funds from the European Union. For the changes in the Justice Fund, which started financing the party goals, instead of supporting those places and those people who deserve it. For the hater scandal that Minister Ziobro still hasn't explained himself to you. For leniently treating your party colleagues. And we see these examples today. Why can't the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city spend a zloty without a legal basis? And Prime Minister Sasin could, and the D.A.'s office doesn't see anything wrong with it. [[Applause]] You look at the hands of many entrepreneurs, harassing them, and Prime Minister Kaczyński could think of the towers. Why didn't the D.A.'s office see anything wrong with it? Not to mention those left-handed medical supplies that the D.A.'s office hasn't invented in six months. But like I said, why are you surprised that the opposition wants to cancel Minister Ziobra when you didn't fully trust him? But, even worse - first of all, I wanted to tell you on behalf of the Polish Coalition - today the resignation of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra demands the most those who trusted him five years ago, those who saw him fix the justice system, will make him close citizens. But you didn't. One quote, if you don't mind. It pisses me off how Ziobro at the conferences all the time tells me how righteous and just he is, how he introduced judicial reform, because earlier things went on for years, which was the fault of the system and the judges, and he gives an even worse example, and 2.5 years of delay in my case. This is what Mr Marek Kubala, an entrepreneur from Wałbrzych, who has been fighting the justice system for 20 years and who was used by Minister Zbigniew Zioba for his campaign. And today, Mr. Kubala and many others are begging for justice. They call for fair treatment, not just in terms of political exploitation. Today, on the occasion of Mr Ziobra's absence, I would like to present to the ministers working with the Minister on a daily basis a complaint against the justice system of citizens, many examples that should be a model of how to reform the justice system today. Ministers, this is not for political needs, just read it, face the dramas that the Poles still face, because the justice system does not work as it should. And it was supposed to work because you assured me. You didn't. I give this to you with the thought that it will be for reflection and that such examples as Mr. Marek Kubala will not be. Mr. Marek is waiting until today, and he's waiting 940 days for an emergency flagship project you've been launching to investigate the complaint. He's waiting 940 days and he can't wait to hear any positive signs that something's gonna happen to him. Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will vote in favour of the cancellation of Minister Ziobra. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u408	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u409	Before I get to the point, however, I must refer to what was said from that speaker just now. Mr Budka spoke about decency, and he also spoke about the language of hatred. Then listen to what you and your supporters are chanting at these protests. Check it out. Mrs Monica Rosa - she is not here now - welcomed me to the protest with her finger, the famous Lichocka gesture. Did you insist on punishing Lichocka's messenger? I hope you will now apologize for Monica Rosa's message. [[Applause]] What are you screaming about? What are the passwords? That's the language of love? This is the language of tolerance? We're talking about weed. And what was Mr. Smile referring to just now? And you know what. What did you mean by that? You're sympathetic with the language of the street, with the gutter? Yes? Congratulations. [[Applause]] Women's defense attorneys throwing bottles at the cathedral's defense attorneys, so they would run past my daughter's head. Is that how you defend women? [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Do you know Korwin? Does that mean anything to you? Calm down, sir. You're talking about putting citizens at risk, and you're dragging them to some big coronaparte that's probably gonna end up having a pajama party at the stadium next week. [[Applause]] About an hour. 17 last Thursday, you voted in favour of tightening the penalties for violating sanitary restrictions, then at 3 p.m. 19, you went to break them. These are the Himalayas of hypocrisy, really. [[Applause]] And the misinformation. Messenger Pihowicz says that now women will be threatened to die. After all, the reason for the danger of a woman's life has not been changed. Why the misinformation? You only add fuel to the fire in your own political interests. To get to the point, I will say that a lot had to change so that everything would remain the same - so it is possible to sum up a few years of this operetta performance. The reform of the judiciary. On the one hand we have operetta reformers who sing a thunderbolt: A good change, a good change, and on the other hand - a choir of the theatrical defenders of the rule of law who sing: O, woe, woe, oloboga, the end of the world. In the middle, the main character of the fifth year already says that he's about to get a ghost, and how he lived, so he lives. Yes, it does not look good, it is poor, but stable. From an average citizen's point of view, it's hard to see any difference, any effect of these reforms. This whole show is just moving the PiS influence zone. After you have mastered the executive and legislative center, you are systematically expanding into the judicial area, and all these reforms are subordinated to this purpose. Conversely, the entire lamentation of the opposition, especially from the platform sign, is really reduced to defending its sphere of influence, which it seeks to present as a defence of the rule of law. [[Applause]] However, there is no rule of law in Poland, there is no rule, and probably there will not be, because in order for the law to rule, the courts must act smoothly, judgments must take place within a reasonable period of time. What's our best right and fairest judgment if he goes down after 10 years of court-martialing? And what has changed in this matter? Nothing's changed. In practice, e.g. In the prosecutor's office, a trivial matter such as the inclusion of a post office locker by the prosecutor in the case of persons who do not have a permanent place of residence turns out to be simply an unheard-of case for this good change. I try not to have too much expectations about this government, but in one important matter, I was hoping for a good change. The problem of parental alienation and the public, shameless discrimination of fathers in family courts has really grown into a long tradition of judicial practice, which is determined by a line somewhere in the ancient Polish People's Republic, despite further attempts to change legislation that does not change. And what did you do about it? Nothing. How much has the situation improved? Not at all. What happened in the previous term with print No. 3254, which was called introducing alternate care into the Polish family law system? You pulled all your teeth out of this project, and in the end, nobody even wanted it anymore. What's next about working on this alternate care? What, for example? with Senate print no. 63, which is swept under the rug under pressure of feminists? Where are the promised maintenance tables? What's going on with this case? In Poland feminists in this discussion about abortion complain that the ban on killing crippled children brings them into the role of incubators. And what is a father in Poland? In Poland, the father is an ATM and a semen feeder. When it comes to abortion, the baby is just a piece of the mother's body, but if you have to pay alimony, then it's your father's. Aliments, which are being decided from the ceiling, depend on the judge's will or on his father's wealth, not on actual costs. What did you do to break the automatics in the family courts that rule out the child's stay (the bell) at her mother's house, then see her every two weeks, secure alimony? How is this dad gonna win this case as a Sunday weekend dad? After all, it's just a vicious circle. Unfortunately, I didn't have time to tell you everything. Thank you. [[Applause]] Very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u410	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And a pretty low turnout in government benches! The whole political scene runs as the head of all the bosses will direct, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. As an opposition, we understand that his will is final, and that he is an Alpha and an omega, an oracle, an oracle, a governor of the Republic of Poland - he, because Prime Minister Morawiecki will always be a confidant of his dreams and a composer of whims. We understand that Jarosław Kaczyński has won democratic elections, and we as opposition must see and unite. However, there is one thing we do not fully understand: why do you, as a PiS, undermine the achievements of the pro-democratic intelligence of your camp? Why do you publicly abuse the legacy of the Presidential couple Maria and Lech Kaczyński? So-called. An abortion compromise - whether we personally support it or not - was developed at the time of the former The real first lady Maria Kaczyńska over a decade ago defended women's rights against the temptations of Fr. Tadeusz and the herb-like products. Not for yourself, not for the party, not for the Church, but for ordinary decency over divisions, and above all for his daughter, granddaughter and all Polish women. Yes, Prime Minister Kaczyński, even your family's conservative set of values was once inscribed in moderation, honor, ability to limit their ambitions if their realization would be cruel to others. Minister Ziobro, whom we are talking about here today, is your coalitionist, head of a 1-percent, aggressive game, who can only burn Poland for lans and positions. But we have won, my fellow Member. Can't you understand that? And you let him do it, Mr. Kaczyński. You know that the effects of this enfant terror are now seen on Polish streets. When it was time to prepare for the fall tide of the epidemic, Minister Ziobro and his party colleagues did everything but their work. As a result, the courts are still clogged, the D.A.'s office turns into a Swiss guard to defend churches, and police without names are sent to peaceful demonstrators. There is no absolution for the seven main sins of Ziobra's minister: for the pride to which he created an army of online haters in the Ministry of Defence for greed, i.e. abuse in the Justice Fund, for impureness, secret guidelines protecting paedophiles and the remission of proceedings in his own case of corrupted European funds, for involuntary employment of his fellows, for jealousy for the position of Jarosław Kaczyński, through whom he raced him for the fall of LGBT+ people, women or ecologists, for the anger that once killed Barbara Blida, and today he set fire to the Polish judiciary, and for laziness, because there is no other way to name delays in the computerization of the KRS. His fault, his fault, his very big fault. There are currently no examples of a greater political bully than what Minister Ziobro is doing. For me and for Poland 2050 Simon Hołowni is a symbol of the destruction of the state, a symbol of the sale of the heritage of the opposition, us and our rights by Jarosław Kaczyński to dangerous madmen. Minister Ziobro! As a Polish woman, I say to you today, "Distance immediately." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u412	Thank you, Member. I now ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present the opinion of the committee. We have a connection with the Member. You can't hear me, Member. We need to get the headphones out. You need to remove your headphones, Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u413	Can you hear me, Marshal? Yeah, you can hear it now. Thank you kindly, and I'm sorry for the inconvenience. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister for Justice of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, print No 682. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 26 October 2020, decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u414	Thank you, Member. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. The Minister of Justice will be the first to speak. I'm gonna need you to put me through. [[The minister's statement is displayed on the screens.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u415	Good morning, Marshal. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you'll excuse me, this formula that I'm going to be in is a bit restrictive and new to me, too. It is due to the restrictions resulting from the quarantine which I found myself in connection with the pandemic, which is today the experience of many Poles. In the beginning, let me refer to those emotional words that were just uttered here during the speeches of the previous speakers in the High House. Well, we live in a democratic state. The fact that Poland is a democratic state was the subject of concern and the result of the courage and struggle of generations of Poles. But democracy, which guarantees us all the constitutional right to express our views publicly, often critical, even very critical to any authority that empowers each of us to object to the decisions of courts or tribunals, including the Constitutional Tribunal, has its limitations on respecting the freedom of others, including dignity, the protection of their property, everything that the same constitution you refer to guarantees every citizen. And today I am very sad to see that Mr Boris Budka and representatives of the Civic Platform and representatives of the opposition to the left of the Civic Platform are unfortunately engaged in supporting actions that often have little in common with legal order and democratic opposition. These are activities carried out under the banner of a vulgar word starting with These are behaviors of this part of activists, which we see on the street, which are supported by the opposition, which are often not only to show a lack of elementary respect for others who have a different perspective, other views in a difficult case, which is not today separated by Poles, but who often refer to methods and methods of action which have nothing to do with the law which express themselves in the use of physical violence, blackmail, intimidation, insults and insults, and vulgar language. And such forms of manifestation of their own views, which have little to do with this democracy for which the generations of Poles fought, are unfortunately affirmed and fully supported by the opposition. Is it the responsibility of the opposition to support such behaviour? What does this say about your concern, which you have repeatedly expressed, calling for the fight against hate speech? It's hate, isn't it? In its essence. But it is hard to wonder how you behaved if you could see the behaviour of one of your fellow Members in the Parliament today, a member of the House who was directly using the expression of violence, but he did it bluntly and directly, physically attacking a colleague from the ruling party. Such behaviours, symbols to which you refer, which have the worst associations for many Poles, especially here, in Warsaw, throughout Poland, can be very bad, they speak about these emotions and intentions which guide you. This is not about a democratic dispute, a dispute on a case that requires serious discussion, which also empowers states to take action to change the law, to change the constitutional order, because that is the possibility. You are really looking for an excuse to create huge emotions in Poland to let Poles on each other in order to cause even greater repercussions and consequences for those Poles who will submit to your advice and decide to engage in this process of extremely aggressive protest, which has repeatedly taken the form of illegal actions. Therefore, in such a case, the State must always uphold the constitution which you speak so much about, upholding the rights and freedoms of all those who have (the bell) the right and can expect from the State the protection of the fundamental values of which this constitution That's the gun. Our country that has come to guide us will certainly carry out this task. Thank you, Minister. To get to the point of the case, to conclude... Excuse me, Marshal, am I to understand that you would like to conclude my statement? Time's up. Yes, because time is running out, but I can extend the Minister for another half-minute. You're welcome. You shouldn't have changed the rules. Then I'd like to ask you how much time you've provided for my speech if... It's not me, Minister, it's the rules of the Sejm. Five minutes. Which you're... You voted for him. But the time of the Minister's speech as part of a motion for mistrust It's probably 15 minutes, Marshal, and I ask you to allow me to take up my position of substance... No, no. I'm gonna ask for some peace. ...in the face of many demagogic and lying arguments that have been made here in the courtroom. Minister, I'm really watching. I'm prolonging your time a little bit, because I can, but please cut it short. You used it yourself. Your Marshal, I will not even pretend to be able to refer in half a minute to the numerous false, demagogical accusations raised at the time of the opposition. I can only say that it is not a coincidence that this request was made when Minister Sławomir N., the right hand of Donald Tusk, and the important minister of the government of the Civic Platform caught in the act of corruption. And it's not a coincidence that CBA officers, acting at the direction of the prosecution, are finding more boxes with hidden millions of bribes, that that's when the application is made to the prosecution, which is effectively fulfilling its tasks. I can only say that, fortunately, voters, democracy has made it impossible for you to make key decisions about the holding of the presidential elections in Poland, because if that were the case, today, when we have about 16 thousand. confirmed cases of virus infection, elections would take place. That's what Mr. Boris Budka wanted. You're welcome, Minister... This is what you wanted, Marshal. Luckily, you didn't have an influence on the helm of things in our country... Thank you very much, Minister. I trust that through democracy we will also be able to continue to make reasonable decisions. I request reasonableness, respect for the law, respect for the Constitution and debate and political dispute within it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u416	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome. And he said such bad things about you... Ziobra's defense - an interesting thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, in its original shape, I wanted to introduce very much here. The various aspects of the functioning of the Ministry of Justice, the prosecutor's office, which strongly advocated the need for reform, required a very deep reform, such as that of Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. These very numerous examples can be cited and I have cited them because I have some déjà vu as a person who, for the third time in a short time, defends the Minister of Justice... Why? ...before an unfair motion for mistrust. But since a number of your comments were also on broader issues, I have also decided to extend this speech somewhat, bearing in mind that these specific issues that I spoke about recently, a few months ago, will be moving forward in this brief statement of mine also now. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to leave from what has happened here in some statements, and in particular from Mr Budka, who is sorry that he is not with us now, because he could hear counter-stories about what he has presented. First of all, it must be said that yes, for many years there has been some kind of dispute over Poland, a very deep dispute about Poland, whose new emanation is recent events, events from recent days, weeks, months, but also years and decades. And in this shape, Minister Ziobro, the Minister of Justice has undertaken the work of repairing the ministry, which in this kernel irregularities, imperfections, testicles were also very often bad and bad procedures and anti-values were found. And it also follows that this repair lasts longer, because indeed, one of the fundamental issues that had to be settled after years of negligence was social policy, but not only as we understood it during our first term of office, a policy that compensated large groups for material deficiencies to the extent that it could compensate for. But now, especially in the second term - and for the first term it was also visible in the actions of the Ministry of Justice - we are undertaking another work of repairing social policy, understood as the service of the state to those who need it most, who need it most. Maybe something about Herba. A bit like Vincenty Kadłubek, our great Polish intellectual said that we have to take care of our weakest. And this is a motto, a lieutenant of the Ministry of Justice, which is a widely understood social policy, which stands absolutely in contrast to what was going on for 25 years, when most governments held formations related to the Left or the Civic Platform. Social policy at the Ministry of Justice. Yes, this is a completely different approach to the state's action towards society, i.e. social policy in a different form. The second very important area is the state's culpability and the state's institution's culpability. There was a lot to be repaired here, and the Ministry of Justice was one of the fundamental areas - through repairs that could lead to greater state efficiency, efficiency and efficiency. So what you're saying wasn't just bad in the years up to 2007, but what are you doing? To a large extent, you have yet to sink. You have deepened these pathologies in the years 2007-2015 just through a lack of state efficiency at an elementary level. But Gowin was there. You were Tusk's advisor. And here the Ministry of Justice plays, yes, a very important role in the entire tax system that we have fixed to such a level that until today you cannot be surprised that, even though we are in a crisis, like the whole world, we are able to implement a budget deficit at a lower level - and a percentage to GDP, and in absolute terms - than you after a much smaller crisis a few years ago. [[The bell, the applause.]] So it's basic culpability and efficiency of the state. 300 billion. The third area is an area of foreign policy where we have recovered a certain the intra-steerability of this policy. Minister Ziobro conducts foreign policy. Since your accusations were completely unfounded, in this context too, it is necessary to look at the repair of the basic institutions of justice as part of ensuring that foreign policy is internal. And that is why, in this context, the whole struggle for this, in the spirit of drawing from sources, is to draw from European standards. Take a look at the coincidence in which one of the large European countries has found itself, which is continuing the reform of the National Judicial Council at home, actually going even further than the reform that we have shaped on the basis of this country. What about this Ziobra? The head of the club should behave decently. Indeed, because the principles followed by the Ministry of Justice, reconstructing many areas of justice, were appropriate, derived from the best practices, from the good practices of some Western European countries, and the lack of equivalent, equal treatment of Poland towards Western countries was often stigmatized by Minister Ziebra and the Ministry of Justice. And it is very right, because we do not agree that there should be equal and equal states in the European Union. Poland is an equal partner, a country which has the same rights as all other countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] In an individual dimension, i.e. in relation to individual people, I could really talk for a long time about very many shameful judgments, which have also occurred in recent times, in recent months. Take a look at the last few months and a few sentences that have passed. What's with the Ziobra? Let me just say in general that our principle, which we follow, is that the principle of the Minister of Justice, is that the law cannot be unjust to the weaker ones, that the law must treat everyone equally, that there is no equal and equal, that those who are powerful in this world are also subject to the law. That's the rule. a just state, a country that treats all its citizens equally. And what's it like with all the stuff you put on your wife? That is why, looking at this - and from a macro perspective and from the perspective of individual citizens - the great reform of the justice system that we undertook in 2015 which was entrusted to Minister Ziobra is and will continue. The Minister of Justice should be thanked for this difficult work, and I therefore ask the High House to reject the motion for a vote of distrust and trust by the Minister that these reforms which he is leading - often after the December, because it is extremely difficult matter - are crucial to bring to an end if we want to live in a modern country if we want to live in a prosperous country and such as in Western Europe, where the justice system is actually more efficient, faster, then further reform is necessary. Therefore, the opposition's proposal should be strongly rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u418	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. The formal proposal was made by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am filing a formal request for a break during which we will hear from Prime Minister Morawiecki about the state's state of security. A few hours ago we listened to an absurd statement by Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, who is under the supervision of the prosecutor's office, the police and the police. He admitted in this statement that the state was not coping with the current crisis. He called his party militias to fight. This is an outrage. This is an outrage. ...to fight. You provoked huge protests in Poland during the pandemic. Constitution! This is a crime. You're challenging... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u420	Count your words, sir. Mr Pierce, count your words. With a formal motion, Mr. Robert Winnicki. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a break, and we should really listen to the information, because just now Poznań radio reported that it was in this city that the attackers of the left-wing militants wounded one person who was hospitalized from church defenders. They attacked with tear gas, ax handles, knives - propaganda of the Left and propaganda of the Civic Coalition that is how they operate today in the streets of Polish cities. You have blood on your hands. You already have blood on your hands today. And you, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński responsible for security, are responsible for the fact that for four days there is desecration of temples throughout the country, and the police stand by and look at it. And you, after four days, seeing that only nationals, Catholic fans, are coming for it, finally called their activists into action. You take people out on the streets on your own. But the activists aren't the first ones here. In the first place are security services that should work and protect churches, not allow these excesses. [[Applause]] You started taking people out on the street on your own.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u422	I'm declaring a two-minute recess before the votes. We're about to vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 18 hours 22 min 19]] We're already ready, so I'm reopening the session. A request for interruption has been submitted, so instead of a quorum, perhaps we should vote on this request. What do we vote, marshal? I'm gonna take a break. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -210, against - 219, 7 stopped. The motion was rejected. The formal application is submitted by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With some peace of mind, but also with reason? When I hear that we should not talk in this House about women, about the judgment of the tribunal, about what Mr. Winnicki said, it is boiling in me and I have this conviction... I'm making a formal motion to let Mr. Winnick get pregnant. Maybe then he'll understand what it means to have a baby. You, sir, are either not smart enough or you are not smart enough or you are simply stupid. [[Applause]] I am sorry, but with responsibility I wanted to tell you on behalf of all the people of the Left that the Left is pacifist, the Left is responsible, the Left never attacks anyone, the Left is sowing love and joy. These protests are designed to give people hope to create a sense of solidarity in people, to show that we can win evil by communion, by good. Thank you very much. Ha, ha, ha! We'll tell you the same thing next time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u424	It wasn't a formal conclusion. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19, print No 709. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 710. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016 (prints No 460 and 599). The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 460. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 460 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 436, against - 8, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by citizens of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020 (prints Nos 487 and 600). The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 487. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 487 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For -444, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018 (prints Nos 459 and 592) - third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 459. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 459, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 448, no one was against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001 (Prints No 520 and 601) - third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 520. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety, in print No 520, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For -438, 3 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Family and Social Policy on the functioning of the comprehensive support programme for families, programmes financed by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and possible consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22.10.2020 in their implementation. K 1/20). In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject the information of the Minister of Family and Social Policy will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 214, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. [[Applause]] We return to item 12 on the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The Prime Minister keeps his fingers crossed. Prime Minister, red. Green. A year in the Seym and still doesn't know. They vote, but they're not happy. 449 Members voted. The statutory majority - 231. For - 217, against - 232, no one stopped. In the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Applause]] Bravo! We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19 (prints Nos 708 and 711). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Health Committee on printing No 711 on the Senate's resolution on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the crisis prevention of the occurrence of COVID-19, printing No 708. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 27 October, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. Of course, today, after considering this resolution at the meeting at 3 p.m. 2.30 The Health Committee welcomes the following amendments: 1., 2., 4., 5., 6., 7., 9., 10., 13., 15., 20., 23., 24., 25., 26., 27., 28., 31., 32., 34., 35., 37., 38., 40. and 41. In the case of amendments: 3, 8, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 29, 30, 33, 36, and 39, the committee recommends rejecting them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u426	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For -1, against -443, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. For -2, against -438, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes that the provision should apply to a medicinal entity and not to a medicinal operator. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 232, against - 217, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In - 1, against - 447, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 3, against - 441, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes a clarification amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. In-four, against-442, he's holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes amendments to the documents submitted to the consultant. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. In -2, against -435, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Point 7 (1) of the Senate proposes that the voivode may take action under this provision with the consent of the competent territorial governor, the mayor, the president of the city. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 227, against - 214, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Point 7 (2) of the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For -3, against -447, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 10, 34 and 41. The Senate proposes another legislative provision of the proposed standards. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10, 34 and 41 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. No one was in favor, no one held back, against - 445. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 10 The Senate proposes that the list referred to in that provision may be drawn up by means of a regulation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 222, against - 225, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Point 12 (1) (a) a and point 2 (a) b The Senate proposes, inter alia, that the audit referred to in this provision should not cover compliance of tasks with the requirements laid down by the President of the Fund. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 231, against - 205, holding off on 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. Point 12 (4) of the Senate proposes editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In -3, against -445, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 14 point 4 of the Senate proposes that in Article. 20a of the amended act delete paragraph 20a. 7.9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. 223 voted against - 208, 11 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. The 14th point 11 of the Senate proposes a clarification amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. 1 Member was in favour, 433 against, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 14 point 12 of the Senate proposes changes in the membership of an air rescue team. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 232, against - 201, the 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 15 point 2 (a) b The Senate proposes that the obligation to apply specific preventive measures and procedures should apply to persons suspected of being ill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 276, against - 166, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. Point 15 (4) of the Senate proposes amendments to the application of the public procurement rules to the contracts referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For-- 233, against-- 208, holding off on one. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 15, point 5, point (a) and the Senate proposes to clarify the provision concerning the transmission of the list of persons engaged in medical professions. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For-- 233, against-- 209, no one's holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. Point 15 (5) of the Senate proposes that point 15 be deleted. c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 229, against - 216, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 21 and 36. The Senate proposes, inter alia, to delete the article. 25. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting amendments 21st and 36th will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 230, against - 213, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 22nd amendment to the article. Point 15 (7) of the Senate proposes that the reference be amended. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal, can't we hurry this up? I'd like that, too. 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 231, against - 213, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 18 The Senate proposes adding point 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. In -3, against -428, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 20 point 1 of the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 47, against - 397, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 20 point 2 of the Senate proposes changes to the remuneration available, inter alia. in isolation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. In - 1, against -443, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 20 point 2 of the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Nobody voted for, no one abstained, against - 434 votes. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 20 point 2 of the Senate proposes to add Article in the amended act. 4i. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. For - 207, against - 230, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 20 point 3 of the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For -7 against -436, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 20 point 3 of the Senate proposes to add Article in the Act. 6b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. For - 231, against - 195, the 11 stopped. The Sejm's amendment accepted... He rejected, I'm sorry, he rejected, of course. In the 30th amendment to the article. 20 point 4 of the Senate proposes to add Article in the Act. 7ac. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 232, against - 201, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment to Article. 20 point 5 of the Senate proposes amendments to the powers of voluntary firefighters. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. In - 1, against -432, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 32nd Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 21a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. For - 214, against - 214, hold down 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 22. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. For - 274, against - 166, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 35. The Senate proposes to add an article. 24a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. In - 10, against -423, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 37th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 25a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. For - 1, against - 426, holding off on 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. 26 The Senate proposes to amend the reference to this provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. In -2, against -424, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 39th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 28a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. For - 224, against - 212, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the article. Point 29 (1) of the Senate proposes amendments to the entry into force of the provisions set out in this proposal. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 2 - for, 425 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and certain other laws (prints Nos 654 and 657). I ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u427	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws, print no. 654 and 657. After considering this resolution, the Commission asks the High House to accept the amendments of the Senate contained in paragraphs 1 and 10 - these amendments are of a legislative nature - and requests that the amendments contained in paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 11 be rejected. These include: regulations that allow humanitarian aid to be provided outside Poland in crisis situations, at a rapid pace, without unnecessary bureaucracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u428	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Foreigners. In the first amendment, the Senate proposes a legislative change. We will consider this amendment, including amendments 2 and 4 to 6. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and from 4 to 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. In -2, against -435, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. For - 1, against - 431, holding off on 1. The amendment was accepted. In the 7th Amendment to the Annex to the Tax Fee Act in Part III, paragraph 1. 6a and 6b in the second column, the Senate proposes to replace the Council with the European Union Council. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting Amendment 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. For - 227, against - 212, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 6th Amendment Act. This amendment is combined with the 11th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. For - 238, against - 197, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. For - 238, against - 198, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. The 12th Law amending the Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. In - 1, against -436, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation and Renovation and some other laws (Prints No 655 and No 665). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation and Renovation and some other laws, print No 655. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 2 October 2020 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure, after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 7 October 2020, request that the High Sejm uphold the amendments of the Senate set out in point 1, note, amendments Nos 1 and 2 may be voted jointly, rejected, in point 2 - reject, in point 3 - accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u430	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. 1. The amendment was tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. In this amendment, the Senate proposes an editorial amendment to the article. 2 in point 1b. In the second amendment to the article. The 13th Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. For - 230, against - 203, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 draft law amending the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. In -2, against -436, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019 together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. I would like to remind you that the Commission for State Control recommends in its opinion that the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber presented by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019 should not be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the report in print 522, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 222, against - 48, with a hold of 167. The Sejm accepted the motion to reject the report. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 710). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 710 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 405, against - 13, with a hold of 14. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 27 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Wait, I haven't made it yet. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] I invite Mrs Monica Falej from the Left Club to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the report, the needs of people with disabilities carried out on behalf of the state... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Marshal, but this... Can I have one of those, please? Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to move the talks to the colloquials, because we are continuing our deliberations, we are proceeding. You're welcome. Hello, there you go. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Please stop the time. Please leave... What's the scream, sir? Please re-activate the time. This is culture? Please, Member, start making a statement. According to the report on the study of the needs of persons with disabilities carried out on behalf of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, the support of a personal assistant was considered a prerequisite for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the life of the local community. [[Game in the O.R.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Madam, as you screamed during the Prime Minister's speech, I apologize... But I'm not screaming, I'm sorry, I'm not screaming. I didn't hear your marshal's intervention. It's after the hearing, the statements, it's not the same rank anymore. But what you're saying is that something is of lower rank, really. If you want to talk, please... But continue with your speech. You're welcome. But you can't work like that, really. Member, please continue with your statement. I don't discuss it in the O.R. if someone's speaking. Member, please continue with your statement. And I'm asking you to ask... It's really not right. And I would like to remind you that even if Minister Maląg was present, you were screaming your voices. But I'm not screaming. You're welcome to continue. Are you saying what's okay? You're the last person... Anyway, time's ticking. Please turn on the time. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy launched a year ago... [[Game in the O.R.]] Well, I can keep my mouth shut. Your Marshal, are there equal and equal Members in this Chamber? I would like to remind you of what it looked like to be proceding when Minister Maląg was performing, translating, informing you about the actions, important actions of the government. I have the impression, important actions. Are you going to take revenge on the envoys now? But you're the one who's gonna keep order in this room, not me. Yes. I've noticed. Please continue, because time is running out, Member. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy launched the project a year ago: The personal assistant of a disabled person. Thanks to it, people with disabilities were to be provided with support in everyday activities and in the functioning of their social life. What's the reality? Following a speech by the Minister of Family and Social Policy on the functioning of the comprehensive support programme for families, the programmes funded by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities from Warmia, Mazur and Powiśle fell through the words of outrage, which I read in my box and on the Messenger. I would like to quote two quotes to illustrate the emotions that these people have had after listening to the words of the Minister's complacency: I have watched the debate today and I have heard such things about the assistance of a disabled person and that it is so wonderful it is not enough I'm getting it. The entry about the assistant is a dead record in the rehabilitation bill. Getting an assistant is a miracle. So it's a dead record, because local government institutions are unable to really fight for the resources that are needed for such an assistant to be assigned. There is no implementation of the provision on the assistance of a disabled person in individual laws, e.g. In the Rehabilitation Act, it leads to the fact that it is a dead record, and the project of introducing an assistant - inefficient. It's been a year since the launch of this project, and things aren't getting any better. Perhaps instead of brag about the fact that you are doing something, you will really get to work, especially since in the days of Coronavirus, people with disabilities were left to themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u432	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, the attention of many people has been focused on my city of Katowice, but unfortunately in the wrong context, so I would like to express great solidarity with all protesters on the streets of my city of Katowice, as well as with all protesters on the streets of all Polish cities and towns. On behalf of itself and of some of the parliamentarians who share the views of protesters against the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020, which de facto prohibits legal abortion in our country and which interferes on an unprecedented scale with human rights, which, in the opinion of the general public, has aroused the growing rebellion and anger of society, we would like to express our position highlighting our deep solidarity and full support for all people protesting on the streets. Dear Rulers! Once again, hear that we really are tired of sharing people, stigmatizing those who do not fit into your vision of Poland, destroying both local communities and our national community. We have enough countries that, instead of protecting and helping, force thousands of people into the street at the top of a pandemic. Today another 16,300 cases were diagnosed. It is scandalous that Poles and Poles must risk their own safety in order to defend their fundamental rights, rights which are systematically taken away from us, and in place of them fundamentalism and the only legitimate ideology of the State of PiS and the conviction of women for permanent and irreversible suffering is introduced. By the sentence of your pseudo-Constitution Tribunal, you have destroyed the abortion compromise that had been worked out years ago. We don't have our permission to convict women of torture. It is not our consent to the nightmare of mothers who will be forced to give birth to beings unable to exist alone and to look at their slow dying, to suffer with them and to die from despair. Women! We're with you, and we'll be with you. Polish women, like everyone else, have human rights. Polish women have the right to live as they want, have the right to live decently and decide about themselves and their bodies. Women can build, they can work beyond divisions, but they can also fight steadfastly for their rights. Today we're all women. There is great power and power in women. Do not forget this, for we will not forget you what you have done. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u434	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. I'm coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Declaration on the consent of the Chief Environmental Inspector to import 40 000 t waste from Germany in the Jizera Mountains. The inhabitants of south-western Poland, and especially the Jizera Mountains, were shocked by the shocking decision of the Chief Environmental Officer of September this year allowing the German company to import 40 500 t of waste in the form of dust of waste gases in Podgórze Jizerskie in the municipality of Mirsk. The recipient of waste is Pri-Bazalt Reclamation Sp. z o.o. The scale of imports of waste from Germany is shocking. Waste will undergo recovery operations by filling in the post-exploiting excavation site, which means that the treatment of waste will consist only in the storage of waste, which is contrary to rational waste management. This is therefore not a processing. It must be stressed that the waste disposal site is very rarely controlled, at most several times a year, and there is a risk of imports of different waste, among which harmful waste may be. No one can guarantee that there are no heavy metals among the dusty gases. In Germany, such waste must not be stored. Why is it possible in Poland also in protected areas? Are we a European landfill? There have been cases in recent months of detection of shipments with harmful waste from Germany without any authorisation. It is all the more facilitated that it is very close to the German border. I ask: What country agrees to such environmentally harmful waste from Germany? The people protest, fearing for their own health and life. For the import of waste from Germany, the General Inspector has established specific companies that will carry out as many as 1500 transports on strictly defined roads. It should be added that the roads in the submountain area are winding, narrow, without sidewalks, or even sidewalks, which, after such a load, will be completely destroyed and the inhabitants will also be exposed to the danger of communication. The Lviv district with great effort and difficulty modernised the roads that will soon be ruined. The place where the waste is to be stored is the Jizera Mountains, which should be particularly protected due to the advantages of landscape and touristic use. Part of the area is located in the Natura 2000 zone. This decision will destroy all the wealth of the Jizerské Hory and will forever destroy its development. How is it possible (the bell) to make a decision so harmful to the area without consulting the local authorities, the owners of the area... Thank you, Member. I'm almost done, Marshal. ...without a field vision and an examination of the possible negative effects? This decision, based on incorrect grounds and presenting a risk to residents and the environment, should be withdrawn as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. [[You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 September the Sejm was visited by print No 648 under the name: the Senate's draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The project concerns the elimination of the negative social consequences of the application of the provisions of the COVID Act relating to the reduction of social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, including maternity benefits, due to the introduction of less favourable employment conditions than those resulting from the establishment of employment relationships, including a reduction in working time by a maximum of 20%. It was only on 30 September that the project was addressed to first reading in the Committee on Public Finances. It's the end of October, and the committee still hasn't dealt with this big problem. I therefore ask: Why is the government so slow about helping mothers and pregnant women? On this occasion, I would like to thank the Vice-Presidents of Gdynia and Wejherów for their appeal to the Pomeranian MPs. I and the entire parliamentary club of the Left are calling for amendments to be examined as soon as possible so that the effort of women and mothers is appreciated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Council of Agricultural Chambers requests Members and Members to cease their work on the Law of 18 September 2020 amending the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws and repealing it without delay. This law created huge social tensions by irresponsible and false representation of the image of Polish farmers as backward, empathetic and humanitarian. Polish farmers do not expect from the Sejm and the Senate charity in the form of compensation granted on unclear terms for the cessation of their activities, but the right to conduct it unfettered in order to ensure a decent existence for their families. The Association of the Rural Republic of Poland negatively, I repeat, negatively opinions the entire law and looks forward to its final rejection. The union notes that the Senate amendments have included provisions that he has repeatedly sought in vain over recent years. These relate primarily to the universal obligation to label, chip dogs and to the establishment of a central register of dogs. The association supports efforts to improve animal welfare, but priority should be given to the development of the Polish economy and to the welfare of Polish farmers, agricultural producers and all economic operators operating for them. This law is very detrimental to the environment of farmers, agricultural producers, breeders and other related economic departments. Farmers and agricultural producers form an integral part of the community of municipalities with rural areas and for this reason we feel obliged to protect them. The impact of the Act on farmers and producers is assessed in such a way that after their dissatisfaction and protest actions are taken. In this respect, we express our full solidarity with the agricultural environments and professional organisations. Proceding the law does not seem to exhaust the principles of fair legislation. The project itself was not the subject of extensive consultation with social, professional, entrepreneurial or self-government organisations. These records may lead to the bankruptcy of many farms and to a threat to the country's food security. We strongly oppose regulations that directly hit the Polish village and thus lead to irreversible changes in the development of Polish agriculture. According to the association, the State should ensure legal stability, stability for legitimate agricultural activities in which it is impossible to change quickly into other activities. The negative effects of the law on farmers and entrepreneurs, in the vast majority of borrowers, will be postponed [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm also looking at the economic situation... [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. ...financing their activities of cooperative banks. Mr... High Seym! The Polish Cynological Council also asked for the rejection of this draft law prohibiting the reproduction and sale of dogs. It is the largest Kynological organization of around 30,000. Breeders... Thank you, sir. Your Marshal, last sentence. Last sentence, please. This relationship has requested the introduction of more than 13. I will put these amendments into the hands of the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday, 26 October, Bydgoszcz residents went to the streets of the city to express their citizens' opposition against the use of the Constitutional Tribunal to abolish women's right to legal abortion due to irreversible deformities, illnesses or death of the fetus. I had the privilege of participating in this march, in a meeting at the Jagiellonian roundabout among hundreds of present and future mothers, young men and whole families. I was impressed by the spontaneity and real determination of the participants, and at the same time by the great culture and preservation of the principles resulting from the ongoing pandemic. The inhabitants of Bydgoszcz went out into the streets to protest against the actions of politicians against Polish women, and protested against the judgment of the tribunal, which is an assassination of human rights. Also an attempt on their inalienable rights and on the safety of their lives. The young screamed that they did not agree to the torture of women and to force them to bear and give birth to crippled foetuses, to the resulting trauma that could overshadow the desire of women to become pregnant again. Yesterday and the day before yesterday young people from Bydgoszcz, Znina, Solca, Sêpólna, Nakła and other towns decided to show that they cannot be ignored and lied about wanting to live in Europe in the 21st century, not in Mozambique, Vatican City or Belarus. Every young and old life must be protected, every mother always wants the best for her, including her unborn child. That is why the mother's physical and mental health is always the most important, because her life is developing as a life on earth. Those who do not understand it are not fit for life in society or for politics. Young people met by me on the street. Gdansk in Bydgoszcz carried a poster: Politicians are from the point of view of solving people's problems, and it is not to create. And they asked me to give this password to President Kaczyński. I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen who took part in the meeting in defence of women and in defence of Polish families. You have shown that the future of the nation is youth, not right-wing politicians or moralists. Thank you very much to all the cattlemen who, during the spontaneous manifestation, protected our ladies and blocked various provocations. See you at the next demonstrations in defence of life and women and in defence of Polish families. Bydgoszcz, I'm proud. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u442	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very concerned about what is happening today in Polish education. All education is in a very difficult situation, but the hardest is those who are about to take the exam, I mean eighth graders. And people who will be taking high school in a few months. Unfortunately, the government's been asleep for the last eight months. This year's seniors already studied remotely in the second half of last year. They have now returned to remote learning. It is important to remember that some students are excluded. In some places where they live, there is no good Internet access, sometimes the only source of Internet use is mobile phones, but let's also remember that the Internet costs. In the most difficult situation there are families of many children. These laptops, which have reached schools, may well form a propaganda image, but in general they have not helped the students. The software bases have not been changed. These programming bases cannot be implemented in the conditions that are present today in our country. The program's overloaded. Teachers will not be able to pass all the material on to their students. Another thing - the lack of information for those students who will take their M.A.s in accordance with the new rules. The CKE websites are still under construction. Let us remember that science is a great value in a global society, a network society, an information society. If we want to be citizens of Europe and the world, we must support our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u444	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm talking about vaccines, flu vaccines again. In fact, every day people of Pomerania ask me for both vaccines and information on where they can be purchased. I put my hands down because I don't know. Until recently, the ministry, the government, has assured us how important it is for us to vaccinate ourselves against influenza. All that's missing is vaccines. Poles go to Germany for them. The Ministry informs that it has increased the number of vaccines to be sent to Poland to 3 million doses. These vaccines are nowhere to be seen. 950,000. The prescription for influenza vaccine is waiting for implementation. I have therefore asked the Minister to speak to him. Probably not just me, since the Ministry of Health said that the officials extended the term of validity of the flu vaccine prescription. This, of course, is very important. Unfortunately, however, it is not said to increase the number of vaccines available on the market, but only to extend the period of validity of the prescriptions for them. The Minister informs, I quote, that prescription for vaccines, for which the primary deadline is 30 days - namely those for influenza - should be exceptionally possible also after the expiry of the above deadline. As I say, it's not gonna cause these vaccines to suddenly show up. The lack of access to vaccines is also complained about by people who have refunded access to vaccines: seniors, pregnant women, adults after 70 years of age with concomitant diseases. Contrary to the announcement of the vaccine, they did not go to health care professionals, pharmacists, or pharmacies technicians. I ask the Minister: When will Poles finally see these vaccines in pharmacies? When will they be able to take care of their health at such a basic level? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-sejm-20-1.u446	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 00 min 55]]
