ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u1	God bless you! Good evening. I'm explaining. Never mind. Dear Marshal! High Izbo... What is this objection to, sir? Objection, Your Honor, against the progress of the grotesque procedure which you are applying here to the High House in the context of the socio-economic disaster funded by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Mr President, we are talking about three resolutions. What is the objection, sir? You can either be more specific or I'll thank you. Introducing the resolution of one, the other and the third referring to other very important historical facts into the proceedings of the High House is grotesque, because the invaders, neither the German people nor the international Soviet socialists, did not dare to do what you just did. They did not dare to lock Poles in their homes, freeze economic life, shut down churches. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. In view of the opposition raised against the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... This was not done by any occupation authority... ...for prints 371, 372 and 373... Your marshal, you can't hear me. ...or any possessive power. So let this be the subject of the proceedings of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u2	...we will settle this matter in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Sejm Regulation in the case of prints 371, 372 and 373, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 436 for, 8 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Senate has adopted resolutions containing amendments to the laws: - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, as well as: - on the amendment of the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The Senate's resolutions are 367 and 369, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these resolutions. I propose on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to consider the amendments contained in the Senate resolutions without prior referral to committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, print No 374. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe (print 371). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. On the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to its victims and heroes, fallen soldiers and civilians. It was the greatest and most brutal war in human history. Two totalitarian regimes led to the explosion: Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union. Their strong ambitions were reflected in the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact signed on 23 August 1939 on the basis of which Central and Eastern Europe was divided into occupation zones. The war brought death to tens of millions of people, the tragedy of the Holocaust, the destruction of the material and cultural achievements of entire nations and the extermination of their elites. Although in 1945 the whole world enjoyed defeating Nazi Germany, the end of World War II did not bring the countries of Central and Eastern Europe freedom, but a new addiction and communist enslavement. In fact, it was only possible to eliminate the effects of World War II at the time of the withdrawal of the forces of the Soviet Union and then of the Russian Federation from Central and Eastern Europe. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all Poles who became victims of World War II - soldiers, members of guerrilla groups, participants of the resistance movement, members of the Polish Underground State and civilians. Given the memory of them, as well as the well-being of their families and the entire Polish state, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland takes the view that power cannot be profitable to the aggressor, and therefore not settled until today, right and in accordance with the principle of justice, the claims of Poland and Poles should be satisfied. At the same time, given the great amount of human suffering and material damage suffered by the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland clearly opposes attempts to lie to history and accuse actual victims of causing war. Historical revisionism and the manipulation of facts are a lack of respect for the memory of the victims, and they also raise legitimate concerns about questioning the international rule of law. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland addresses the expressions of solidarity to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, including the Baltic States, i.e. Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, whose parliaments have spoken on several occasions about the manipulation of history. It also draws attention to the European Parliament resolution of 19 September 2019 on the importance of European historical memory for the future of Europe. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland urges us to oppose attempts to blur away responsibility for the drama of millions of citizens of Europe and the world. Only the memory of the victims of totalitarian regimes and respect for historical truth can be the foundation of peace in Europe. I propose that this resolution be adopted by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Wielkopolska Independent Volunteer Group (Print No 372). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Wielkopolska Independent Volunteer Group 'Warta'. On 10 May 2020 marks the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the Wielkopolska Independent Volunteer Group 'Warta', an organization of independence underground created on the banks of the Poznań District of the National Army. 'Wait', founded by the last commander of the National Army in Poznań colonel. Andrzej Rzewuski, ps. 'Hańcza', was an apolitical, conspiracy unit of the Polish Army recognizing the authority of the President of the Republic of Poland in exile. The organization was formally under the leadership of the Armed Forces Delegation for the country. She was expanding her structures, gathering and relaying intelligence to the Chief Leader in London and fighting communist propaganda. Without engaging in their own actions, they sought to protect the former soldiers of the Home Army from the persecutions of NKVD and UB. The number of organisations is estimated to be around 5 000. Members. The solution of WSGO 'Warth' was influenced by the recommendation of the Chief Chief of Staff by the last order of Colonel. Rzewuski of 15 November 1945 In the final period of 'Warth' activity was infiltrated by UB agents, which resulted, after the formal termination of the activity, in numerous arrests. Captured at the end of November, colonel. Andrzej Rzewuski committed suicide in prison cell on May 20, 1946. On the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Wielkopolska Independent Volunteer Group 'Warta', the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all the soldiers of the second conspiracy in Greater Poland who faithfully stood by the legal Polish authorities and fought for Poland's independence. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Wielkopolska Independent Volunteer Group. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Brazil (Print No 373). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Brazil. In view of the fact that exactly 100 years ago, on 27 May 1920, a Member of the newly formed Second Republic of Poland, Ksawery Orłowski, submitted authentication letters to the former President of the United States of Brazil, Mr Epitácio Pessoo da Silva, thus initiating the process of establishing diplomatic relations between the two countries, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to highlight the importance of this event. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland welcomes the fact that these 100 years have passed under the sign of constructive, friendly cooperation, and hopes that the following years and decades will be an opportunity to strengthen this trend, also due to the better knowledge of our societies. In the global pandemic of the Polish Sejm, it expresses solidarity with the Brazilian people, especially the tragic consequences of it. We hope that human steadfastness and international solidarity will allow us all to deal with the threat and return to the path of stability and development. Please accept the resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Brazil. We now have formal proposals. There you go, Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention, because today we are debating, we will vote on four international agreements on which no questions can be asked today, and during the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union Committee we did not receive any analyses of these agreements, whether they are profitable for Poland or not. You simply a priori have accepted that if something comes from the European Union, it is good for us, and you have not seen or have not read these agreements at all. It's in the article. 31 (1) (a) ♪ There is such a provision: combating climate change, including by fixing the prices of carbon allowances. So this is another climate package. What kind of deal? Do you really think that we should proceed this way? In my opinion, we should take this seriously because the Polish state is a sovereign state and should decide what is good for it and what is bad for it. And the state can't even give us any analysis as to whether these agreements are good for us or bad for us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u4	Thank you, sir. There's been a request for a recess. With the second formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today is International Pharmacy Day. As we know, in Poland and not only the pharmacists belong to those who, many weeks ago, stood on the first line of the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus, helping all those who today need to meet their drug needs. I think that on this day, your marshal - which is why I am taking this voice - we should put aside our pre-election emotions, this current policy and focus our thoughts precisely on this group of very brave and helpful people who today serve our countrymen in Poland, and not only clap, as President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish says, out of gratitude, but also make some concrete gesture towards pharmacists, doctors, nurses, medical rescuers. That's why I'd like to ask the marshal to lean down and pass it on to the court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The project is a hero's premium, which meets the needs of the... Thank you, sir. ...but it's also a gratifying effort. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u6	Thank you very much, sir, but you know that this is not a formal proposal. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Representatives three parliamentary clubs: the Left, the Polish Coalition and the Civic Coalition asked your marshals to complete the agenda for information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the purchase of famous personal protective equipment for PLN 5 million, which, as it turned out, did not meet the relevant standards. In this transaction, this purchase was made by the Ministry of Health for PLN 5 million, among others. Mr. Szumowski's brother, the health minister's brother, was a middleman of these masks. The documents we received yesterday at the Ministry of Health also show that the invoices that were paid to this contractor - important: the ski instructor - were issued with a one-day payment deadline. Every contractor would like to be treated in Poland so that public institutions pay invoices with a one-day payment deadline. This is an absolute scandal. It turns out that the Ministry only checked these masks after the press articles, that there might be something wrong with them after more than a month of time. This is an outrage. Mrs. Marshal! [[♪ The bell ♪]] We believe that we should be informed. These are public funds... Thank you, sir. ...and the state in the COVID Act has in fact provided amnesty in such situations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u8	Mr President, at the meeting of the Senior Convention, this matter was discussed and you know very well... You have made these proposals this afternoon and you expect that today, when we conclude the session of the Sejm, this will be considered. I told you that so far I am addressing the Prime Minister. It hasn't happened yet that the government hasn't responded to your information... Prime Minister, explain this. ...so please listen to what we're talking about at the Senior Convention. Give the floor to the Prime Minister. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left - a formal proposal. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I have not given you the floor. Please give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For 2 weeks, for 3 weeks and during the entire meeting, we have been working on various laws that are crucial from a much social perspective and health security perspective. The Prime Minister, Prime Minister Gliński, Minister Błaszczak is almost always with us, there is Minister Kaminski, there is a large part of the government, but Minister Szumowski is missing. In times of crisis, when there are big problems in Silesia, when hospital doctors say there may be a second wave of crisis, there is no minister with us. I am reporting this today, but I am also informing you that we will ask for information from the Minister of Health at the next meeting about what really is the state of preparation for a possible second crisis wave in Poland today, because there is no less disease. We are talking about freezing the economy - and well - but where is the sense of responsibility for Polish hospitals, health care, nurses, doctors? That's what's really missing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u10	Thank you, sir. This was, of course, not a formal conclusion. You have asked for the floor of Minister Łukasz Schreiber, a member of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it is against the position of representative of the Civic Coalition. Marshal, as Minister or as Member? Ladies and gentlemen, who do you really want to cheat today, how? You think you're gonna cover up today's events with those words? High Izbo, today I think you have made it clear that no natural disaster has ever been the case, that it was merely about the state of the polling disaster. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's the minister's statement? In what mode? You showed today, ladies and gentlemen, that really your words about honor, about respect for women are just words. In what mode? It's a vote against the rules. You showed us today that you're putting up a white flag. You're showing with this screaming that you're trying to scream reality and that you're not interested in debate at all. This can't be right. By paraphrasing Winston Churchill's words, you could say you had [[♪ The bell ♪]] To choose disgrace or defeat. You have chosen disgrace, but defeat will not pass you by. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u12	Thank you. There's been a request for a recess. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Your marshal, I have a formal motion. He was from your club. We'll proceed with the vote. But, Marshal, it's a shame there's a question, and you don't answer. You're still using the rules. You can't do that. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Up until now, only one Member has walked without mode, as he wanted. What do you mean? Because they're scared. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I'm sorry, I have not given you the floor, so I ask you very much not to discuss the jury with me, okay? Your Marshal, give us the floor, we'll normally sound like the Sejm. I give you the floor in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Łukasz Schreiber is a minister - a member of the Council of Ministers and has the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't argue with me, sir. Please, sir. Who's holding back? We want to find out what $5 million is for masks. There's a formal conclusion and a negative conclusion, that's in normal mode. Ski coach - 5 million PLN. Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I ask you not to speak in this manner. Then give us the floor. Mr President, you have taken the floor, you have submitted formal proposals. I didn't fold. I'm acting in public interest. Please don't argue with the jury. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm acting in public interest. Ask for 280 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking both sides to stay calm, okay? Your marshal, if you were giving the floor, I wouldn't have to speak from the jury. Let him come and explain. Mr President, please calm down. Please, sir, okay? Calm down. $5 million for masks for the coach's friend. You can't keep quiet about this case, it won't do. ...about the election. And 20 million for Brother Szumowski? Mr President, once again, I am admonishing you. This is the third time I've warned you. The fourth time, you'll be punished again. You are asking for it yourself, sir. With a formal motion, Your Marshal, may I? No, we are in the middle of a vote right now, sir. I'm in the Seym and you can't talk. Sit down, sir. I want you to follow the Marshal's orders according to the regulations. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Your marshal, Marshal Kuchciński, has fought with Mr Nitras once before, and it didn't work out so well. There's room for you to run. 457 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (prints No 370 and 374). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee. The formal conclusion was, Your Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u13	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, the Senate has tabled 87 amendments to the law adopted on 30 April to amend certain protective measures in relation to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Your marshal sent the Senate's resolution to the Committee on Public Finance. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering today, recommends that these 87 amendments be rejected by 47 amendments, 40 to be accepted. Among these 40 are 13 legislative amendments, but also 27 substantive amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u14	Thank you very much. The formal proposal was made by Mr Ryszard Terlecki. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! With a formal request to change the voting procedure. I propose that we vote together on the amendments positively assessed by the committee and on the amendments rejected by the committee. [[Applause]] Your marshal, I applied for a formal application, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u16	You're welcome, Your Honour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's a vote against. This bill is a pea with cabbage in it. 71 articles, each about something else. And with a candle look for regulations that will help Poles during the crisis of the Polish economy. How are we supposed to vote on the paedophile committee and the rule that breaks attorney-client privilege at the same time? Why would the Senate make such amendments? This is probably the first situation in the history of European civilization that when Poles go for free legal advice, it is not enough that their personal data will be sent to the Ministry of Justice, but also information about what the advice was about. This is one big scandal. Mrs. Marshal! You're taking our vote. How can we not talk about matters that are important and interested in Poles in the Polish Parliament in this room? Someone turned 5 million zlotys on the masks. The Minister hasn't been here, Mr. Finance Minister, for six months (the bell) hasn't been here. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. And Minister Gliński, who translated the weasel lady from his left pocket to the right for PLN 0.5 billion for the Czartoryskis, dares to accuse us lyingly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u18	Thank you very much, sir. That's what... That's the discussion. As I have been opposed to the motion to vote on the Senate amendments together, I will put this proposal to the vote. Your marshal, but I've filed a formal motion as well. Your marshal, Professor Terlecki, has been given the right to speak, a formal motion, and I have not. Why? And your friend at the club got hit, too. But I'm not my friend. Professor Terlecki's been hit. I have a right, too. You're welcome, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u19	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! We really want to work in this House normally, but it cannot be that you abuse the rules of procedure and allow the Minister to speak, to argue with the Member. But it's an envoy. But he got a ministerial vote. There's no right in another. (PL) Mr President, I would like to make a formal request. I'm trying to form him, but let me. In writing? Mr Konwiński goes out and asks a question about the shocking issue: 5 million PLN Minister Szumowski with his own brother through a fellow skier, gave the skier on masks that were bad. How can you fight an epidemic, use it to enrich your colleagues? You must, you should feel responsible and come out here and answer. What is the formal proposal for, sir? When the minister comes out on behalf of the government, he should say, "We're gonna clear this up, we're gonna check, we're gonna check, we're not gonna let him steal." And he goes out and says: Mr Konwiński has talked to himself about something. And the formal proposal, Your Marshal, is that you allow Members to take advantage of the role of Parliament, control over the government, because as the government does such things, it has a duty to answer in the Seym how this situation looks, not to smile, Mr Kaczyński, because it is not funny. [[Applause]] Sit down!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u20	Mr President, if you want to comply with the rules, you must follow them yourself, and you are breaking them notoriously. Your Marshal, I'm warning you. Last formal motion. There you go, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. Parliament's control role. And there's nothing to laugh about, Mr. President Kaczyński. How do you know I'm laughing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You can see how emotional these conclusions are. To be honest, today we discussed before the Sejm, and it is good that I did not bet, because I say: I do not believe that there will be any grouping again. I remember that two sittings earlier this type of number were done by Marshal Terlecki as well. It turns out you're doing exactly the same thing today. If we're going to vote on anything, we need to know what we're voting on. With all due respect, Mr. Marshal, saying that the corrections are in one block and that the corrections against the other block... Say immediately: the PiS amendments are in one block, the other amendments are in the other block. It's senate. It's the Senate. On the other hand, I pay attention to one thing. I'm asking you, Marshal, to announce a half-hour break so that the applicant can formulate this and that we have in writing which amendments he wants to block... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...and how these amendments want to block so that we can finally know what we are voting on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u22	Mr President, the request for a break has already been voted, but these are the amendments of the Senate, not the Sejm. Since the request has been made and the vote is against, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to vote on the Senate's amendments as a whole, and of the amendments that the committee has given a negative opinion, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 231 - for, 225 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Formal motion, Marshal, on voting procedures. He's been here before. There has already been such a conclusion, sir. No, this is different. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask, however, because I see that you are walking like a pendolino during this vote. I would ask you to provide a set of these amendments, a set of these blocked amendments, on which we are to vote, so that we know what we are really voting on. It is difficult today to identify the amendments and the block of amendments for which we are in favour. I'd ask there to be numbers, so it's really all set up, since we've got 73 votes planned, and there's only eight or nine. I would ask you to actually write it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u24	Mr President, I would just like to remind you that you have received, as always, a report. You never have all the amendments tabled with all the components, Mr President, so we cannot vote on this proposal. Your marshal, but no... Mr President, there is a report that you have received. But, Your Marshal, to make it sound like it again. We don't expect that. We expect this... You have received a report and you have received... We have 73 amendments. Your marshal will probably read in 30 seconds... I will read very slowly, sir. No, because people are sitting... Very slow. Not everyone's in the O.R. If not 30 minutes, it's a 10-minute break. Somebody print it out, deliver it here and show it to us. That's what you asked President Terlecki to do. What's the problem? Have him e-mail it. Perhaps you can explain this to President Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u25	Dear Marshal! I would like to inform you that the print on the committee report makes this very clear. Every amendment has a signature: accept, reject. So everyone knows which amendment will be the vote in which block. Accept, reject - that is the recommendation. No. And this is the printing of the committee's report. 374.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u26	Thank you. We proceed to the joint examination of amendments 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 21 to 23, 26, 33, 38 to 42, 44, 46, 50 to 52, 54, 55, 58 to 62, 64, 66, 69, 70, 72, 77, 81 and 87. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 5-for, 394-against, holding 57. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. We proceed to the joint examination of amendments 3, 5, 8 to 12, 15, 18, 20, 24, 25, 27 to 32, 34 to 37, 43, 45, 47 to 49, 53, 56, 57, 63, 65, 67, 68, 71, 73 to 76, 78 to 80 and 82 to 86. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 236 - for, 166 - against, 56 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. We proceed to item 16 of the agenda... Your Marshal, formal motion. In a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u27	I'm not getting out of here. You asked the marshal to talk about the amendments. And we're prepared for this meeting tonight. Your marshal, you said this: I will read the amendments slowly and everyone will have the right to vote. Dear Marshal! High Seym! The left to all these amendments that have been voted on here, to all, was mentioned by the rapporteur, Minister Kowalczyk, and we have prepared ourselves. We have prepared not with one amendment and not: against, against. At the committee meeting we discussed each of these amendments, we wanted to vote on the amendment on the position: against, against, against. That's the recommendation, because that's what the Left thinks. What happened here today is hindering the execution of the Member's mandate, we speak honestly. Because it's not about voting fast, it's about voting wisely, doing the law that suits everyone, sitting for four hours - it's about sitting down, not doing it in 20 minutes to get home faster. The left had it prepared, and that's what I'd like to say, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-14-sejm-11-7.u28	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Print No 367). We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 43b Act on the amendment of the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds The Senate proposes inter alia. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "pregnancy" add the words "and the crew." Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. I propose that the Sejm give its consent to the joint vote on Amendments 1, 2 and 3. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 239, 212 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes the current content of the article to be marked as paragraph. 1 and add paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 234 for, 219 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives (Print No 369). We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 35a The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 1. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. I propose that the Sejm consent to the total vote on Amendments 1 and 3. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 236 - for, 214 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. 35a The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 7 and 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. In - 3, 450 - against, one stopped. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We refer to point 22 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 199. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 199 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Social distanceing. 452 Members voted. 445 was for, 5 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm has adopted the Act on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. We refer to point 23 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 200. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 200 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 444 - for, 5 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm adopted the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 305. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 305 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 441 was in favor, 6 against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. We return to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context, signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 346. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 346 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 437 for, 10 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental assessments in a cross-border context signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018. We are returning to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Government information on the situation on the credit market in relation to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information. I will put to the vote a request for information to be made. Marshal, I'd like to speak with you. In what mode? Question before the vote. But there are no questions before the vote. But the rules allow a question. It's important. Art. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the I'm taking advantage of it. Ma'am, just because there's a coronavirus doesn't mean you can't ask a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of taking note of the government's information on the situation in the credit market in relation to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Formal conclusion. Ma'am, you're using the rules so you can't ask a question. I have the right to ask a question when voting on information. The rules allow. It's so nervous. Don't be insolent. Mr President, once again, I refer to the Rules of Procedure: Article. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial Let's get this over with. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Polish entrepreneurs do not have loans because the credit action is suspended. And that makes you happy, Mr. Kaczyński, is that funny? Because you don't need credit. Ha, ha, ha! You don't need credit. But the Poles do. And they don't. And you don't even want to talk about it. And you, Prime Minister, should report why the loans are stopped. Your Marshal... Why state banks have loans - 40% Your own contribution, Prime Minister? You're a banker. 40% own contribution. You can afford it, but can Poles afford it? This is the Polish solidarity? The Member is interfering. If you can't get it from the platform, you need it here. 40% Your own contribution... You're dumb, man. In the interest of the banks, you act, law and justice, not people. Because there are doubts, I'll say it again. I'll put it to the vote... The system is misleading. No, the system's fine. I put the request for information to the vote, and since there was an objection, the question was: Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour... Information. Like I said before, who's in favour of accepting information... [[Game in the O.R.]] So I'm going to say it again, because I'm being called in by the MPs... It's a resummation request for this. But I haven't finished the vote yet, sir, so it's still going on. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And it turned out, ladies and gentlemen, that against the objection to accepting information... You have objected to this information. It's really not... No. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, If you gave me the floor, it would be clear. Ladies and gentlemen, one more time. It's the same as here. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, it is the same here, sir. No. Ladies and gentlemen, you're very welcome. I know it's late, but focus. I have read clearly, ma'am, that this is about the point: the government's information on the situation in the credit market and that there has been an objection to the proposal to accept the information and that I will put the request for information to the vote to be heard. You are shown that an objection to this information has been raised. It is not the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that vote is being held as regards opposition. Your Marshal, offer: you give me the floor, we're resummating. Once again, we're in the middle of a vote and I haven't closed it yet. So let me ask you one more time. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of taking note of government information on the situation in the credit market in relation to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will want to press the button. Who's in favour of accepting the information? - that's what the question was. Your marshal, but once someone pressed... I haven't finished the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If someone, ladies and gentlemen, does not know how to vote, that is his problem. Your marshal considered it appropriate to repeat this during the vote, so you confirmed to the marshal that the procedure left something to be desired. No, sir, the procedure left nothing to be desired. Your Marshal, this is a legitimate request for reconnaissance. There's a change in the courtroom. You have to listen. This is how you act, as if for the first time we voted on the opposition, really. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, you may terminate this vote. I have to talk about it to explain where it's coming from. Your Marshal, this cannot be the case because you have misled Members, by mistake, because by accident, and the system has stated that we are voting on opposition, and we are not voting on information, and that is the difference. You don't even know how to instruct Members, Marshal. Do you know when we're gonna react? As it turns out, PiS was wrong. You have experience in repeating votes. Your marshal informs me that to be realistic, we need to collect signatures. But the presence of Members in this Chamber is regulated by the Marshal. So if your marshal agrees to the tablet's signature collection, by e-mail, then I'll arrange this collection. You? Oh, because you're out of the Seym. You can't get 30 signatures. This is some kind of circus you're doing here. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, you voted well. But how do you know? It's about this one. 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the information. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 11th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This concludes the 11th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Information on the date and agenda of the 12th session of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 58]]
