ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u1	Resume session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to proceed with the vote, which is intended only to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Turn on the lights. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's working. [[Voice from the room: I'm sorry, but I don't have a tablet to communicate with remote...]] [[Voice from the room: We'll get it right away.]] Let's go for a run. Please report the results. 83 senators voted and we accept that at this point so many senators are taking part in the sitting. [[Voting No 60]] High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Act on electronic services and consideration of it as the fifth item of the agenda; information to the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January and June 2020 (Croatia Presidency of the Council of the European Union) and consideration of it as the seventh point; changes in the composition of the Senate Committee and considering it as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I also propose a joint debate on items 6 and 7 of the agenda, i.e. information on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2019, i.e. during Finland's presidency of the Council of the European Union, and on the newly put on the agenda information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in this work during the Presidency of Croatia in the Council of the European Union. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, the plan for today is as follows. At 11.30 p.m., the session will be adjourned by 12.15 p.m. so that they can complete their work by the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights and Petitions Committee. During this break, at 12:00 p.m., the exhibition will be opened by Polish physicists for world science. The exhibition will be held with strict security of pandemic time, with a social distance. All guests will be welcome. We begin to consider the fourth item: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the Battle of England and the Polish Heroes. Welcome to the meeting of Mr James Hughes, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Embassy of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the Republic of Poland. Hello, Counselor. Welcome. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 220, and the report is in print No 220 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Internauts watching the report from our meeting, presentation of this item! I know they are, and they're watching us tonight. I have the honour and honor to present a draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Battle of England and its Polish Heroes. On behalf of the Legislative Commission and as one of the initiators of a resolution by the Senate on the 80th anniversary of this battle, I would like to say a few sentences about the situation that existed at that time, although I think that we all here in this Chamber know this very well. But in order for history not to be next to such a resolution, it must be said that the Battle of England was, as it turned out later, a key event in the history of World War II. You can call it the battle of London and compare it a little bit to the Battle of Warsaw. Lord Edgar Vincent D'Abernon, who expanded the list of groundbreaking battles in the history of the world by Edward Shepard Creasy, created a list of 15 groundbreaking battles in the history of the world. He died in 1941, did not extend further this catalog of world breakthrough battles... But you can safely conclude that the Battle of England could be the nineteenth breakthrough battle in the history of the world. It lasted from 10 July to 31 October 1940 immediately after its completion. This was not the result that was expected, but in the context of the further fate of World War II it proved to be priceless. Saving Britain from the German invasion was a key issue to win World War II. It was then, during this period, during the Battle of England, over the channel La Manche and one of the key battles of World War II took place on the southern part of England, in which Polish pilots played a very important role. Question: Did Polish pilots win the battle for England? You can't ask that question. Besides, there's no simple answer to that question. The battle for England was generally won by pilots. It was the first air battle in the history of the world, in which RAF pilots, pilots serving in the RAF, pilots of different nationalities took part. They all, you can say, created one complementary army of pilots, did it, contributed to a groundbreaking event at that time. Fascist Germany, from the beginning of World War II to the previous annexation of Austria and the Czech Republic, for the first time suffered defeat in its expansive ideology, including its expansive war, murderous action. By then, it was almost only Britain that became a free country of Europe. Hence the great determination of all nations. All those who could reach Britain came and stood up for it. In the draft resolution, which was adopted unanimously by the Legislative Commission, 22 votes in favour, we do not mention names of persons as initiators. Polish pilots fighting in the Second World War, fighting for England in the battle, there were many, and in general, operating within the framework of the RAF, serving about 17 thousand or even more than 17 thousand. They were pilots, they were airport attendants... But we also need to be clear. Because in the resolution we mention Polish divisions that directly participated in the Battle of England The Polish pilots in the Battle of England flew in battle, you can say, in 27 divisions of the RAF and made a significant contribution to the fact that this victory could have occurred. It could have been the result of direct warfare, but it could also have been the result of increasing morale among those fighting, supporting each other and enriching their actions. In this resolution there are no names, but one can mention here for historical reasons that the first Polish pilot who shot down an enemy plane, because that's what you have to call it, was a pore. Antoni Ostowicz. He did it on July 19th. He was also the first pilot to die, and his plane was shot down on 11 August. The pilot who made the most shootings in one flight in one day was a sergeant. Antoni Głowacki, who shot down on 24 August, and this was scored to him, five enemy planes. The breakthrough day of the Battle of England was September 15th. At that time, all the RAF air forces and the Luftwaffe forces were in the air. Fortunately for the history of history, for the history of the world, for the history of Great Britain, England this battle was won by the RAF Air Force. What would the world look like, what would Europe look like if the Battle of England was lost? I think everyone can imagine that perfectly. Finally, coming to the end of the presentation of this resolution, I would like to say one more thing, emphatically. This battle is important in memory of Polish heroes, Polish pilots, among the tragic stories of their lives. And such a symbol, such an example of how they were treated after World War II, are the fates of Colonel Szczepañ Scibier, who became the commander of a higher aviation school in Dęblin, currently called Military Aviation Academy, and rebuilt Polish aviation. I hope the head of this school is listening right now. Greetings, General Brig. Piotr Krawczyk, who in 2 telephone conversations informed me that the school cultivates traditions of Polish airmen fighting in the Second World War, fighting for England in the Battle of Britain. I think some of the underdogs at this school are watching us right now and listening. Mr. Colonel Szczepalan Ścibiert returned to the country, took the position of school commander, devoted his life, skills and knowledge to rebuild Polish aviation after World War II in Poland. And then there was this one. But not only him, because also a number of other pilots returning to the country, by the communist authorities at that time, were first used to rebuild aviation and then destroyed to some extent. Colonel Stephen Ścicibier was arrested on 9 August 1951, and on 13 May 1952 he was sentenced to death by the Supreme Military Court. In a prison nearby Mokotov, he was abused, tortured for eight months. He was executed on August 7, 1952 in the same prison. There was no body, there was no way of knowing where it was. His symbolic grave is at the Military Cemetery in Powązki. During the exhumation work conducted on the Link in the cemetery of Powązków, the remains of Mr.Szczepański Ścibierz were found. They were found as a result of exhumation work in 2017. The President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, appointed Mr Szczepan Ścibier as Brigadier General posthumously on 11 March 2019. Although earlier, after the thaw that took place in 1956, the same court I do not know whether in the same composition, in another, he has probably overturned the sentence of death. It was in 1956, more than four years after the execution of the sentence. The remains of Stephen Ścibier were moved to Dęblin and he was buried opposite the garrison church in Dęblin. Representatives of the Air Force Academy participate every year in the Battle of England at the Northolt airport near London. You can say that it is now located in one of London's districts. This airport was trained by Polish pilots, in fact, because in the vast majority they were already trained. Unfortunately, the covid situation, linked to the epidemic, prevents direct participation in today's session by the general, the commander of the Air Force Academy. Notabene for the first time this year was not allowed to participate directly in these celebrations at the airport in Northolt, but only to participate remotely, online. But hopefully there will be a time when we will organize an exhibition or some conference devoted to the participation of Poles in the Battle of England. To conclude, I would like to say why the UK's defence could and was effective. There were three pillars, three elements of this defense. The first element is the hunting squadron, the second is the network of radars in the UK, the third is the network of information exchange and command transmission. These three elements, combined with human participation, resulted in a victory. And Division 303, the most famous Polish division, was practically the best division of all divisions fighting in the Battle of England. To conclude, I would like to bring up the personal thread I was talking about at the committee meeting. I passed on two biograms of people fighting in the Battle of England because I feel personally obliged to do so. I can say of myself that I belong, in such a slightly broader sense, to a family of people fighting in the Battle for England, because my grandmother's brother and my aunt's sister's husband fought in this battle. One was a pilot, the other worked in ground handling. One stayed in England, the other came back. The one who came back was persecuted and so on. These are the stories I've mentioned, which you've experienced directly by the colonel, and now General Szczepan Ścibierz. Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. We are proud that the Senate can enter into honoring those about whom Winston Churchill said this famous sentence that never in history so many have owed so much to so few. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. I'm guessing that's not the question. Then I'll open the discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski spoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Everyone who listens to us now also via the Internet! I would like to begin by thanking Senator Komorowski very warmly. I'm joining what you said to Marshal Grodzki. Thank you for this beautiful initiative. In the course of various current events, this anniversary might have escaped our attention, and in fact it was an extremely important event. The senator's determination and enthusiasm were evident. As a co-complainant, I can confirm that the senator was very keen to do so, very personally engaged in preparing the text of this draft resolution, in all necessary consultations and in carrying out the actions required by the Senate regulations which led us to a second reading at the moment. A lot has been said here. I would just like to add, what was the background, what were the causes of the Battle of England, because of this resolution, of course... But this is not supposed to be a summary of the history of World War II, but a resolution drawing attention to a very important element of this war, these actions. Well, the Germans hoped that Britain would withdraw from the war after the occupation of France. After all, we know that the war was declared by Great Britain to Hitler on 3 September, just as France did. However, the occupation of France and Belgium by Germany resulted in a change in the British office and Prime Minister Chamberlain replaced Winston Churchill This took place in the first decade of the month, probably on May 10, 1940. And Churchill refused Hitler or made it clear that Britain would not withdraw from the war. And then, when he was appointed Prime Minister Winston Churchill, the House of Commons also had famous words. It is perhaps one of the most famous political speeches of the 20th century. Churchill said, "I have nothing to offer, but toil, tears and sweat." And indeed, the British society was very united, although at that moment this war may have seemed quite abstract to it. But we remember this dramatic evacuation from Dunkirk, which also took place at that time. Hitler wanted Great Britain by sea operation. The key was a cryptonymous operation called "Seelöwe" (Lew Morski), which was intended to lead to a landing in Great Britain. But first of all, in order to do so, we had to ensure that we were in the air. And that's why they started in July 1940... rightfully the senator points out in the resolution that this battle actually starts in July, although historians argue and the first phase of this battle is considered August. However, the raids and warfare that took place in July was basically the beginning of this huge operation. On the other hand, from Germany, this was the formal start of the operation on 12 August 1940 when the air marshal of the Reich Göring ordered the operation to be carried out. What happened next is we know exactly what happened. So that once again I would like to thank the senator very warmly for the motion for this resolution. And I would like to point out that... In particular, those who already have PESEL a little high remember the famous film by Guy Hamilton of 1969. The Battle of England in an excellent acting cast. It was an event, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, there were not many such films on our screens. And there was also a famous Polish episode, very small. It triggered discussions, wondered that maybe not enough, that maybe too much... But in this video it was included. Perhaps this was a tribute to what happened in the famous parade after the end of World War II, Poland, which was an ally of Great Britain, was not invited to the victory parade that took place at the time. This was criticised by part of the British society, because it had a fresh memory of the Poles' contribution to the victory over Adolf Hitler. Such films were later created more, we have and contemporary productions. However, the film 'Battle of England' was, I think, groundbreaking, also from the direction of air execution, because for the first time shown so fantastic... It was not easy in the technical conditions, those of more than 50 years ago, to create such spectacular aerial photographs, which represented very realisticly what this battle looked like. Thank you again, senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko made speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Battle of England and the Polish Heroes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 senators voted. [[Voting No 61]] [[Applause]] In the face of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Battle of England and its Polish Heroes. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u6	Thank you for taking this resolution. I suggest we celebrate these heroes with a moment of silence and uprising. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them." Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen.]] [[Praise the heroes!]] [[The gathered answer, "Glory to the heroes!"]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u7	Praise the heroes! Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Electronic Service Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 226 and the committee's report in print No 226 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure a draft bill on electronic services. This law lays down rules on the use of a public registered service for electronic and public hybrid service, as well as a qualified registered service for electronic service in such a way that these tools can be used in communication between the parties on an equal basis with the sending of a traditional registered letter for acknowledgement of receipt or personal service. The service of registered electronic service is provided for in Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July, as well as in the Integrated Information Technology Programme, annexed to Resolution No 1/2014 of the Council of Ministers, as well as in the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers in relation to the area "E-State." Ladies and gentlemen, this project is a government project. The law was also notified to the European Commission. It's touching 90 different laws. It is quite extensive because it has 162 pages as well as 161 articles. Despite the fact that she was being processed by the government for a long time, since April, the Senate legislators who met with the employees of the Ministry of Digitalization have also submitted 43 different comments But these were comments of lower value, they were legislative, editorial and ordering comments. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, we examined everything and I will recommend that the High House adopt all these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Swed, and then you're Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the bill provides for the creation of a new public register, which will be a database of e-mail addresses. I would like to ask if at the committee's meeting there was any mention of what time the database of electronic addresses created by the Polish Post will be updated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u11	As I said, this law affects 90 laws and it can be said that the vacathio legis is even 9 years old, because as the last one will enter into force cases related to the judiciary, with the prosecution's office and this will be in 2029. So this base will be updated all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Can individuals also be covered by this regulation? And if so, what are the rules? I'd like an explanation here. And my second question. Was there a discussion at the meeting... In the case of many services, the time of receipt and the ability of the recipient to react to the content of the letter he receives, e.g. in court or in connection with administrative decisions. If such a consignment is delivered e.g. at 11:55 p.m. or even at 11:55 p.m. 5:00 p.m., and the office works e.g. by 4:00 p.m., this deadline runs, and there is no logical, practical opportunity to respond to this correspondence. Was this issue raised during the committee's work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u14	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u15	Yes, this issue was also raised. As far as individuals are concerned, this base can also be established. The Regulation contains the data to be logged in. That's one thing. And the other thing about deadlines. Those are deadlines, too. C.P.A. that is 14 days, and in this way also individual deadlines are realized.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here's the question. How will this bill change the daily life of Poles? Firstly, will our citizens have to react to this law in any way? I don't know, like... submit a request, submit your data to the base? Will they have to do something on their own initiative? That's one thing. Secondly, will they be obliged to carry out certain activities, but as if they would be obliged by the office or by an institution, or prejudiced about it? After all, they do not need to know the contents of the bill, but e.g. they may be prejudiced: please do both. And the third question. Are there any powers that you would like to tell our citizens about, why their lives will become easier after the entry into force of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u19	First of all, this is about the implementation time, this action will be quicker, this approach will change. This time is very important and is increasingly valuable. There is still so-called. a hybrid approach, because it is known that not everyone will want to do so immediately, to be on this address base. Therefore, for the first 5 years it is an order, you can say, it will be realized by the Polish Post and who won't want to... This electronic form will and will be so, but let's assume that it will go to a given post office and she will print this letter as well as packaging it. She has to prepare all of this, and that's why she has to move on to making it... Well, it's gonna take time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking Senator Swede for another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would also like to ask whether the committee's meeting referred to how the introduction of this e-service will affect the employment of workers in individual units. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u22	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u23	The employment of employees was not mentioned at the moment, although this law also provides for measures for the development of this, it can be said, for the Polish Post a new field. During these nine years almost PLN 2 billion has been spent on this. So that we did not talk about this element of employment itself, but we know how the mail works, and they will also have to change their approach.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u24	Thank you very much. The bill was filed... I understand there are no further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor and present the government's position on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Dear...]] Please, the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Dear Mr Marshal, I think I will simply address the questions if such questions are asked by the senators.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any questions from the senators to the minister? [[Mr. Senator Czerwinski.]] Please, Mr... you? [[Mr. Senator Czerwinski.]] Are you Senator Czerwinski or... I'm sorry, but it's such a non-standard situation that one senator is reporting another senator. But if you're not protesting, then... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm checking in, too. I just saw you were first Senator Czerwiński.]] Oh, good. [[And that's why I did it. I'm sorry.]] That's the question I'm asking Senator Czerwinski to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's just that conscious discipline works. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I'm serious now. Minister, I'll repeat the question. If you could present the main ideas of this bill, but not from the point of view of the institution, but from the point of view of the citizen... Will he have to carry out certain activities on his own initiative At the initiative of the institution or of the office, let's say, at the request or by reason of urgency. To benefit from the benefits of this bill? And what are the benefits? Why is it just gonna be worth it? As citizens, I'm not talking about the state of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u26	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Of course, this law is quite revolutionary in terms of the scope of state information, and in particular in terms of the range of communication on the citizen's line. The State, because it does not only generally introduce electronic communications on the office line . Citizens and others who often participate in this communication but also assume digital default, i.e. generally prioritize electronic delivery over traditional service. So we assume that every state institution will communicate electronically with citizens, unless for some reason, or because it is simply digitally excluded, or because of the information it does not want to disclose, it will report a desire to receive correspondence still in a traditional way from our state institutions. Then, for such citizens, we are scheduled to launch a hybrid service, which is simply the preservation of paper, traditional correspondence. So that's the possibility, of course. No one will be excluded here, there will be no situation where someone for any reason will not be able to receive electronic correspondence and will simply be excluded from the correspondence circuit. No, in such cases a hybrid service is provided. As far as citizens' initiative is concerned, when it comes to digital defaults, each citizen himself will declare his desire to add e-mail addresses to the database. An operator designated as Poczta Polska is obliged to install an electronic mailbox for every citizen. This box will naturally have its address. This address will be in this database of e-mail addresses, and then the citizen will no longer have to signal to the various offices that he wants to receive electronic correspondence or send it electronically, only the digital default will make every institution of the state obliged to send any correspondence digitally from the machine. It seems to us, ladies and gentlemen, that this is indeed a revolution. And we believe that deeply. It is spread over years, requires quite large preparation and integration of various ICT systems. Because, as we know, today's communication on the citizen line The various institutions, not only state institutions, are already largely electronic, that is desirable. That is why we are preparing for this here. And, as I said, in answer to the senator's question, citizens will mostly receive electronic correspondence. Those who believe that they want to continue to receive it in a traditional way will naturally have this possibility provided.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u29	I'm so hot... 'Cause whatever's so important... As I understand it, citizens will be prejudiced that they have this right. So who's making the first move? A citizen can't, in my opinion. 'Cause, uh, notice... Well, some of us are definitely listening, but I bet it's either a percentage or a nation's radius. And most people won't even know they have that kind of authority. Is there a proper start provided in the Act that this is a short name? So either the information from the Polish Post that this possibility exists, or the general information from some institution that this possibility exists? Because if we don't give that information, and we're guessing it's gonna be electronic, then the effect is that from a point of view, the citizen's gonna be surprised that he's not getting a list, and someone, neighbor, neighbor, someone more, well, I'd say Named, modern, in quotes, will inform him: review your e-mail box. That's the first line. And then there's the second line. I don't know if that's possible in the bill, but that's what I'm talking about. I'm asking these questions so that our citizens will find out too. What if it's a citizen? He wanted some institutions to continue to send correspondence in a traditional way, because he's afraid... because for example. These are important writings for him. The police, the D.A.'s office, the courts... I would like them to provide me with correspondence traditionally, to make sure that, for example. I didn't miss the deadline. And then what? Is it safe to say that these institutions are supposed to send correspondence in a traditional way? I mean. can be otherwise: it is obtained traditionally, not sent. Is that possible in the bill? Because it would be so valuable that then she would be introduced in such a way without collision, it would not, in short, release everything into deep water.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u30	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, as I said earlier, it is natural that, in general, we, as previously the Ministry of Digitalization, and today, the IT department of the State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, assume a very clear philosophy, namely that, in the context of the informationization of the State, we always leave the gate to deal with matters in a traditional way. Because not every citizen has a duty... Today, there is no obligation in our country to use the Internet. And here's some voluntaryity. All this, of course, goes better every year and more and more people are fully computerized, but we are aware of the digital exclusion that still exists today. Therefore, as I said before, the service of hybrid service, which is also traditional, will be provided. Thus, citizens absolutely need not worry that they will be excluded. I was talking about it, Mr. Senator. As far as e-service boxes are concerned, here the obligation will be imposed on the designated operator, which is now the Polish Post, selected on the basis of a competition organized by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. And the designated operator will be required not only to establish such an electronic mailbox for the citizen, but also, of course, to secure this box, to secure the data that will be provided there, sent, and to secure the identity identification of the addressee and sender, so that this correspondence is not only safe but also legal. So that no one can question the authenticity of the correspondence. So these duties, which you are talking about, are incumbent on the designated operator, which is the Polish Post Office. And if the senator would like to be more specific, make some very specific points, then, of course... I wrote that question down, and I will also address in writing the senator's question directly. [[The second question is whether it is possible to exclude part of the institution from electronic circulation in the case of a particular citizen so that it can receive correspondence in writing.]] From my knowledge, of course, yes. But we'll be more specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would have handled what you asked Senator Swede. Namely, sometimes you browse the websites of various official institutions and unfortunately you can see that they are not so newly updated. And I don't want to criticize anyone here, that's not what I'm talking about in this context, I just want to know how it's going to be about these addresses, how often this database is going to be verified. Because it may turn out that for various reasons or technical reasons or changes to a server or other changes, there will have to be a change of such an electronic address. And then what? I would therefore like to ask how it will look, how often it will be updated. And the other thing. Well, as far as I know, most such shipments with confirmation of receipt, such physical shipments, when they come to the address of the citizen's residence, actually involve two areas. The first is the courts, the court shipments. We know that millions of such shipments go around every year. And the second area is different administrative decisions. So local governments, municipalities, it's a circuit, because there are procedures, it's due to administrative law, there's a deadline for reacting, and so on. What's it gonna look like? Will the courts of the vending machine go into this system, or will it go on in stages, this, let's call it, a change of communication between the court and the citizen? If you are a citizen, for example, by submitting. Is it going to be the same thing as this e-mail address as it is going to be the official service address or not? Because I think what you asked Senator Czerwinski... Well, what does that mean from the point of view of an ordinary citizen? These are extremely important matters. Later, people come to our senators' offices and it turns out that someone has been notified, but has not responded, has not answered, and now thinks that he is being wronged to some extent. But this was also because he did not respond, and the administration informed the citizen about the situation. What's it gonna look like from this side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Electronic Service Act creates a database of electronic addresses, which will have the legal form of a public register, therefore the entry in that register, an entry with an electronic address of the citizen concerned, will result in the fact that all state institutions will be obliged to communicate with the citizen by default with this address, which will be included in this database of electronic addresses. So that here, as I said before, there is a principle of digital default, which is a certain priority, so that the citizen no longer needs each office individually, whether it's a government unit or another unit, to signal that he wants to receive correspondence according to the database of electronic addresses, on his specific delivery box. So this is the default here as much as possible. As for what Mr. Senator said, I would say that we also solve other problems, such as the reception of correspondence, especially official or judicial. Because these are often the most priority correspondence, and the effect of receiving this correspondence often also has its legal consequences. So that the operator will be required to ensure that the effectiveness of electronic service is legally indisputable. But so are we. as a state, we provide for the citizen, for example, such a privilege that this electronic box will be able to operate not only in its place of residence, but actually anywhere in the world in which it will be located. This also in some ways removes an argument that was very often repeated, namely: I was simply not in my place of residence, I could not receive this letter. And we know that today Poles are very mobile and can work even far from the place of check-in. So that this causes that no matter where we are, we will have access to our electronic mailbox, we will be able to view it and receive this correspondence effectively, also in court. As far as the question is concerned, whether it's the local government or the court... As far as local governments are concerned, of course. we as a government will also provide substantive and technical support to local authorities in terms of acceptance of service. As far as the courts are concerned, the Ministry of Justice, as if following this view which Mr Senator gave here, signalled that it was the most sensitive element of correspondence on the line of the citizen of the State, and therefore reserved the longest vacathio legis in terms of the entry into force of this law. Granted, 2029 is the final date for entering this correspondence when it comes to c.p.k., although when it comes to civil matters, these cases will enter the digital vocabulary much faster. We stress that this is also the way we agreed with the Ministry of Justice, the final date for the entry into force of this law, these solutions, and the adaptation, harmonisation of ICT systems, which already function in the judiciary. Nevertheless, we hope that this will happen much faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jackowski would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u35	Thank you very much. Now I have two more doubts or two questions about the Minister's answer. Question one. And if the citizen is on leave - No, he's entitled to leave. And he's got a laptop with him... And now: whether sending correspondence to his address triggers this procedure 7 days or 14 days, it depends ? Counted from the moment of delivery? Well, it's electronically registered, so there won't be a dispute here. Will this require confirmation of receipt of the letter by the citizen? Does he have to open that e-mail and confirm that he received it? Will this be the date from which it will be considered that the consignment has been delivered effectively, or will sending it to the e-mail address itself be clear as to whether the consignment has been delivered effectively? This is a key issue. [[Thank you...]] And the second issue. Well, if a register of these electronic addresses is created... Unfortunately, we know that even from the best-guarded banks, various databases are leaking. How will this database be protected against irregularities in the trading of these addresses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, as far as data security is concerned, this is obviously a priority, because there will be sensitive data, even very sensitive data. This is not only about contact details, but also about the content of correspondence, which can be even more valuable in this case. So, above all, we are basing this security on very strict EU solutions, which are introduced at the level of regulations of the European Commission. As far as data security is concerned, it is clear that the State will also take care of it, but above all this obligation will be imposed on the designated operator, which is Poczta Polska. We here assume that according to these strict records regarding the security of data storage and processing, the Polish Post will be able to meet this challenge. We believe it will be. So far, correspondence's more like... We do not know the cases of mass disclosure of databases concerning this matter. In this case, this road will continue as much as possible. And when it comes to detailing the question of the date of actual delivery of the shipment, such as holidays etc., it seems to me that even today, in the case of traditional mail, offices or, for example, law enforcement agencies which send the correspondence in question, do not take into account the leave of citizens. Well, here maybe the lawyers should speak up. Senator, to be precise, I'll answer that in writing. There can be no misunderstanding here, because this misunderstanding can then be crucial in resolving certain matters, including before the courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Swede's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, partly my question has already been asked by Senator Jackiewicz... [[Jackowski.]] ...but I also know that as far as the database of electronic addresses and its updates are concerned, it will also be updated for business or professional purposes. I would like to ask, in more detail, what will happen if... because you were talking about public entities, about the fact that public entities will be obliged to update the service base within this register. And if a business entity changes e.g. address of residence? How often will this database be updated? Will he also be obliged to update this address? Will he have the tools to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u40	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u41	Each entity, public or non-public, will, of course, receive a number of information on how to use the electronic mailbox. The database will, of course, be updated on an ongoing basis, i.e. the notification of the intention to update in the database of electronic addresses will be equal to the update in this database, so that it will not be so that the database will be updated only once in a while, e.g. every six months per year It will be a continuous process. Report any changes by the citizens... This will also be recorded continuously in the database of electronic addresses. Thus, also in the case of specific changes which the citizen will wish to report, regardless of which formula... This will, of course, be described in detail, presented to the citizen how he is to do so. Here it is absolutely not going to be so that someone will remain without this knowledge or someone will remain without support, for example the designated operator. I think that Poczta Polska will certainly introduce, propose some contact, maybe. It's a daily hotline. The idea is to respond very carefully to such questions of the senators, citizens. I think that these questions that you are asking here are very life-related questions, and they will certainly appear in the course of the implementation of this law. So I think that such a helpline will arise, we will make sure that the Polish Post stands at the level of the task and inform citizens in a very detailed way how the changes are to be implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'm still gonna ask you from the position of citizen. In this bill we have 4 stakeholders, as it is said nicely sometimes, in a new way, and you are a state as a structure... Contrary to appearances, the state has probably the least to do here, it must create a database. For this we have individual institutions that will be forced to use this type of service, I say 'forced', because this is supposed to be the default system to use this type of service. Next: Polish Post as a completely isolated institution, which will enable all of this thanks to its resources and its work, and finally a single citizen who will be able to use it or not. As for the role of the state, I am not worried, although the time is short. Okay, I'll admit it. The realization... The Act shall enter into force, in general terms, on 1 July 2021. The state has six months for this, well, maybe more, eight months. I hope that this will be accomplished. Institutions... It's worse here. Most of the provisions of this law are amendments adapting to the implementation of electronic service. Let's see if everyone has realized that they have to adapt to the delivery of electronic services. That's what we'll see in the laundry. What about the mail? She's gonna have the biggest one. I don't know what to call it, a percentage of the tasks to do. I'm talking about facts here. Well, somebody's gonna have to print this in writing. Now that's what this is all about. Of course, I'm talking in a very big nutshell. That someone receives letters, sorts them out, goes to deal them out, and then someone delivers them. And here, please note, there must be another database at the post office that will correlate postal addresses with actual addresses, i.e. the addresses of the places concerned. Well, that's not gonna be easy either. The question is whether a given postal address is well correlated with the local address. We've only got six months to do this. And here's the question: does the post office know what it has to do, or will it be rewarded enough to be able to prepare for this task? I'm not talking about realization anymore, I'm talking about getting ready for it. And when it comes to citizens, what they can gain and what they need to prepare for in connection with this bill... Don't you think the Minister would just have to do some awareness-raising action? I'm not just talking about saying that there's a system like this, it's a brochure, a flyer, also a post office. Or maybe as an unaddressed print, deliver it to every mailbox so that the citizen knows what's waiting for him, what he can meet with?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In general, I agree with the senator that we certainly need a very broad educational and information campaign to prepare citizens for this revolution. As regards the time of entry into force of the Act, let us remember that individual components of the Act will be implemented at a given time. It's not like next year, all of them, I'd say, part of this bill will come into force. Absolutely not, it is not. Of course, all the components will be implemented, but at a specific time, gradually. I strongly agree with the fact that we need to reach out to citizens with information and education activities. The pandemic of Coronavirus has shown that Poles are very keen to switch to digital services, as we can see after very rapid growth, for example. number of users of the profile trusted in our country There are probably 3 or 4 million more users this year, and their number is slowly approaching 9 million, which is a really good result. This shows that from month to month users of digital services in Poland are increasing. I think that Poles today will rather be willing to receive their packages electronically, because it's just convenient too, you don't have to walk to the post office, you don't have to stand In queues, you don't have to take your time. As far as Poland Post is concerned, let us remember that in the light of the law, the designated operator is primarily obliged to implement the provisions of this law in the context and e-service, and hybrid services, and to watch over the database of e-mail addresses, and to watch over the mailboxes for registered e-service services, to which every citizen will have access. So that it is indeed a powerful and responsible task. But I think that the designated operator, Poczta Polska, has already had experience in this aspect, because he is the best organized correspondence company in our country, has the greatest experience, so that I think he will manage this case. I would like to make it very clear that Poczta Polska, headed by President Zdzikot, was also very much involved in the matter of electronic delivery in our country, in the process of computerization of our country. Polish Post is constantly looking at this work and, of course, announces its readiness to comply with the provisions of this law. So, on the one hand, we naturally trust the operator appointed by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, and on the other hand we also have a gate in this law, which is that if necessary, if it turns out that the Polish Post is suffering very large financial losses for this reason, we as a state will be able to finance the implementation of electronic services. One such basic, elementary principles of this law is that the designated operator does not have the right to refuse the application and implementation of this correspondence in places where, for example, She doesn't make any profit. And there are situations. After all, in postal law it is very clear that there are such situations, for example in the case of official correspondence, when it is not always profitable to provide correspondence in a given place in a traditional way, especially in a hybrid service. The law will provide a provision to protect citizens, which makes it clear that absolutely every citizen, regardless of where our country is located, if he expects to provide the service in a traditional way, using the provisions on the possibility of using a hybrid service, will have this possibility, whether commercially viable or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u46	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Swede who would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you again about my earlier question. What happens when an e-mail address isn't so bad as it's out of date? We know that in the case of business, sometimes the address changes. And what happens if, for example... Well, we know what it's like in court proceedings. Service is always treated as effective service. And what will happen if the entity does not receive such notification e.g. the legal proceedings which directly concern him, and it will appear that there is an obsolete address in the electronic database? Who's gonna be in that case... Aren't you afraid there's gonna be some kind of claim?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think the most appropriate authority to answer this question And this question, of course, will be redirected. It will be the Ministry of Justice, a body competent to carry out, for example, correspondence in the field of the judiciary. So that we can ask the Ministry of Justice to answer that question in writing to the senator. And this is where we commit ourselves to giving the senator that answer. I agree with the senator, these are very important matters, very crucial, especially in the case of proceedings, so they must be as specific as possible so that no one will have any doubts afterwards.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u50	Thank you very much. Senator Durlak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, most of the questions I wanted to ask have already been asked by my predecessors. So that many of my doubts have already been resolved by the Minister. There's one more question left. Have these solutions already been applied in other European Union countries? If so, which one? And do you, as the Ministry, have any information on what it looks like in other countries? And were the authors of the bill modelled on solutions from other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u53	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, of course. Of course, in many countries, especially in the European Union, electronic communication solutions are already in place between administrations and citizens. I mean, for example, French or Austrian solutions. Of course, we know about the Scandinavian countries, we know about countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom, which have already implemented electronic services. We have naturally looked at legislative solutions in these countries, we have also seen how it works in practice, because it is known that the law itself does not equal the effective use of a given solution in everyday life. We've been looking at records like this, working on a procedated bill. Based on the experiences of others, we have tried to rule out certain mistakes that they have made and have been reported by citizens. Let us hope that we will join this online club of countries that communicate on the basis of electronic service with their own citizens in the Senate too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u54	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Tyszkiewicz to ask you a question. [[Do we hear each other?]] Remotely. Yeah, yeah. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sir... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...official and postal matters... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Defined terminology grid... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry to bother you, but we're having a lot of trouble getting in touch with you. We just can't hear you, and I think there's still a problem with the connections. If the senator would be kind enough to repeat his statement...]] Okay. Good. [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. I'm gonna ask our technical services if...]] [[Voice from the room: Everything is fine.]] [[Everything's okay, right? It's just a senator...]] Do we hear each other? Hello, do we hear each other? [[Yes, we can hear you, Senator. I'd like to ask you a question.]] Nobody's questioning the validity of this bill, she's very much needed. I would just like to add that it took us many years to put in place the electronic circulation of documents in local governments. This bill is very much needed. By the way, as regards the question of Senator Czerwiński, I will say that this law enters into force, it is to start in 2021, but Poland Post That's what I read. It has until 2025 to implement all systems, and the critical term is 2029. I'll get right to the question. The main assumptions of the new law are the transition to simple electronic correspondence in contact with public entities. My question: why have civil status offices been left out here? They're public entities. Very many citizens take care of their affairs at civil status offices. Of course, I will make such amendments, I have already tabled them, but I will slightly modify them after discussions with representatives of the Ministry and with legislators. My question is: why have civil status offices been left out in this legislative process? Electronic contact on the citizen line The office is very important in the context of civil status offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! First of all, it must be made very clear that the government and local government administration, but especially the government, are already largely benefiting from the electronic circulation of documents. It's becoming a standard. Our country, regardless of the level of administration, which we are very happy about, especially since we are building a nationwide EZD system of the Republic of Poland, which I hope will be available to all... We will be cordially encouraging in the future, including the local government, to use cloud services, so that really data security and data collection are guaranteed in the highest possible respects, but also as cheap as possible. Mr. Senator, we've already received the Senator's amendments, including those regarding correspondence with the civil status office. We're working on these amendments. We don't reject them from above, we look at them. We are in current contact with the competent authority, namely the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, with which we come up with an answer regarding the Senator's amendments. Most likely to some of them, to some of these votes we will agree with. I would very much ask the senator for another brief moment of patience, because perhaps we will be able to find some compromise here and simply accept some of your amendments, your suggestions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Gromko a question. [[The voice from the room: Gromko?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, Mariusz Gromko.]] Mariusz Gromko, Senator Mariusz Gromko.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! Minister! [[Welcome, Mr. Senator.]] In the beginning, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for the clear and detailed information on this law. I also have a question. Is there any analysis of the savings that the state administration can obtain from the transition from paper to electronic mode? Are there any global estimates?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u60	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, we do not have a global estimate of the financial impact in terms of austerity on the implementation of this law on electronic services, the budgetary impact, whether it's the government budget or the state institutions. They, of course, in our opinion, will be. And I think the senator's question, very substantive, is about this aspect, which we think is extremely important. We, by introducing this law, focus not only on the facilities for the citizen, which will undoubtedly lead to the transition to electronic correspondence on the line of the citizen of the state, but also to other areas, e.g. bureaucraticisation, that is, we are looking for opportunities to reduce unnecessary employment in different levels of administration. We also touch on the issue of the improvement, efficiency and speed of the administration, including the state. We also touch the environmental and environmental aspects, because naturally the amount of paper produced in the mass way in our country will decrease very much. This is also a very important aspect for us and we are very happy about this change. We will certainly, when implementing electronic services, urge that the authorities undergoing the IT process also in this respect analyse the possibility of making savings in this regard, because the transition to electronic communication in a natural way, in my opinion, can generate such savings. It's not just friendly... As I said before, it has this aspect of life, amenities, it is environmentally friendly, but it is also simply friendly to our budgets. And that's what we're counting on.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Bladder. Remotely, so we're gonna have to wait for all the technical...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u63	A question about the confidentiality of correspondence. How to ensure the confidentiality of correspondence in the case of hybrid service? I think that's pretty important. We will be afraid that when unpacking correspondence 'Cause it's sent electronically, but then we have to go to paper mail. You will have access to our information. How can we ensure the secrecy of correspondence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u64	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Naturally, the mystery of correspondence in this respect is crucial for each citizen. I think that this will be especially the case before we talked about it, for example by judicial correspondence. Every citizen will want to be assured here, I think, as the highest mystery of this correspondence, the content of this correspondence. And here the security will be a few things. The first aspect will be that part of the transfer of this correspondence into a hybrid service will take place in an automated manner, i.e. simply without human participation. And if the requirement of human participation here is mandatory and necessary for this service to exist in a hybrid way... Well, let's also remember the mystery, which is mandatory for people working in Poczta Polska, all those who have access to correspondence. This secret is protected not only by civil law but also by criminal law, and the person concerned is liable for breaking the confidentiality of correspondence, even with the prison sentence combined. I think it's also a way of securing. Let us remember that so far this correspondence from many institutions has also been passed through different people, so that absolutely it is not so that suddenly for the first time some officials will gain access to our correspondence. It's happened before, too. Those who prepared this correspondence in a traditional way also often had access to its content. We count, first, on the automation of the hybrid service, and secondly, on the responsibility of the secrecy of correspondence, on the fact that they will be the safeguards that will cause us not to have such unpleasantness as the disclosure of the content of our private correspondence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u66	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Komarnicki a question. Also remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u67	Can you hear me? Good morning. [[Good morning.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I had a few questions, but earlier the senators asked them, so it doesn't make sense to repeat them. But I would particularly like to ask you a question as an entrepreneur who has always struggled with competition for the past 26 years. And my question is about competition practices. Indeed, the situation is as follows: this law introduces a de facto monopoly on the electronic delivery market, a monopoly on one entity. He'll be privileged. My question relates primarily to two cases. One, why this monopoly? But the more important question is what happens next. What will be the lines of action, Minister, in order to offset the competitive advantage and ensure real competition in the electronic delivery market? In what directions will the government conduct these actions so that competition is a fact and Poles do not overpay? Because where there is no competition, where there is a monopoly, it is known that such an entity conducts financially as it wishes. They say you'll have to pay for it at all, e.g. for delivering an e-mail. But the point is that Poles do not overpay for this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u69	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you for that question. We, of course, also attach the private sector, while maintaining the principles of free competition, to the possibility of implementing the provisions of this law, for example by enabling qualified providers of trust services to comply with the procedure of electronic service which is fully recognised by the law and the provisions of that law. So that it is absolutely not so that only Poczta Polska will have the right to provide any electronic service in our country. That's one thing. Secondly, we, wishing to make the implementation of this law effective in everyday life, chose the most effective direction in our opinion, which is the appointment in the law to carry out this task not by Polish Post, because it is not so recorded, but by the operator designated, which is now Polish Post. It's such a fundamental difference. In our country, for many, many years on the basis of e.g. postal law, there is an institution such as the designated operator, which is selected by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, and by 2025 the term of office of Polish Post as such is now in effect. Thus, in fact, Poczta Polska will enter as if from the march as an operator already chosen by the President of UKE to implement this law. But in 2025, the President of the Office of Electronic Communications will re-create the competition for an operator designated in our country and without any restraint other entities who wish to provide electronic services in our country and thus become such a designated operator will be able to take part in this competition. As part of this competition, the possibility of joining other operators will be assessed, just for the purpose of implementing this law, i.e. simply for it to be another operator designated... But that depends on the outcome of the contest. So it is absolutely not that we write down the monopoly of one entity in the act, but based on the competition of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, the competition for the designated operator, which in our country has been a tradition for many, many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. I understand it's remote, too. [[Good morning, welcome. Mr. Marshal, I volunteered to make an appearance.]] Excuse me, I got your name on the senators' list for the question. Excuse me, senator. Now let me ask you a question, Minister, as I understand it, at the end, because I didn't want to abuse the function I have here today. Minister, I have a question about national security, that is not so much the internal security we are talking about, the secrecy of correspondence, etc., but the security of our national interests. Or, for example, Any geographical areas or any specific operators, specific e-mail addresses will be turned off? Will the Polish citizen be able to report e.g. Russian e-mail address for delivery, a mailbox on any... server belonging to any of the powerful Russian companies that also deal with it? How do you approach this problem? Will any email address that the citizen will report be equally acceptable, both in Polish and international terms? Because email addresses are different, and I don't want to advertise any particular companies here, but... Will there be any restrictions in this area, or will it just be possible to give every email address, I don't know, e.g. Jamaican, etc.? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u71	Thank you for that question, Mr. Marshal. In order to clarify your doubts, Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that the Act on the provision of a registered electronic service provides for the creation by the operator of the designated service, not by the citizen, but by the designated operator. E-service boxes. So it is not that the bill introduces the possibility of adding their private e-mails, because it would indeed be a threat to the security of the state, as the Marshal rightly said. We cedit it to the designated operator and we guarantee that it will be on Polish servers, so that the Polish state will take direct care of a given box of a given citizen and in order to absolutely exclude the possibility of provocation from the services of foreign countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Please.]] As I understand it, no further questions. I will ask one more question because our debate is being listened to by the Deputy President of the Office of Electronic Communications. Would the President like to take the floor on this bill or possibly answer the senators' questions if they appear? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll thank the Minister for that. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Mr. President. You may speak from your seat, Mr. President. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u73	You can hear me now, right? [[You're welcome.]] Good morning, Charles Krzywicki, Deputy President of the Office of Electronic Communications. Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I would like to say and may add to what the Minister said, that the process of drafting this law itself has been going on since 2018. A lot of work has already been done, and at the appropriate stage the Polish Post has also been added, so I would resolve doubts about issues related to technical preparation. The President of UKE, as the Minister said, will organise, to date, a competition for a designated operator, which will not be limited by subject, to which each contest will be able to enter on clear and transparent principles and to apply for the designation of such a national digital operator. So here I would solve my doubts as well. With regard to the mere supervision of the activities of the digital operator or that operator designated to provide the service of electronic service, I will say that it will be exercised by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. This is a multi-stage multi-layer surveillance system for such an operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We need to announce a recess in connection with the exhibition that will be opened in the Senate. I'd like to inform the senators that I'm announcing a recess until 12:15. After the break, we will begin the examination of the sixth and seventh agenda, this is information for the Sejm and the Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the Presidency of Finland and during the Presidency of Croatia. To these points, as I say, we will return after the break, and to the fourth point we will return after considering these two points... [[Voice from O.R. Fifth.]] To point five, yes. ...after considering those two points I was talking about. I would like to thank the senators for their participation in the discussion, and I am announcing a recess until 12.15 a.m. Sorry, there's two more messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Message one. Continuation of the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights Committee on the first reading of the draft resolution on the restriction of civil rights will take place immediately after the adjournment is announced, at 11.30 a.m., in room 176. Message two. The meeting of the Health Committee on the establishment of a public health advisory team at the Health Committee will take place 5 minutes after the Senate adjournment is announced, around 11.30 a.m. today, in room 182. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 29 to 11 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u76	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, it proposes that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the limitation of civil rights and considering it as item eight of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u77	I'll be brief because I was talking about the position of the Law and Justice Club at the committee meeting. I'm filing a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Against opposition, we are voting on my proposal to put this item on the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? I don't see that remote screen, Mr. Tom... Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 90 senators voted, 48 in favour, 41 against, 1 abstention from the vote. [[Voting No 62]] Thank you very much. The point has been entered. [[Applause]] [[Some senators get up and keep a postcard with the inscription "I support women's strike."]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] At the moment, we proceed to the joint consideration of item 6 and item 7 of the agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union); information to the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January and June 2020 (the Presidency of Croatia in the Council of the European Union). I would like to express my satisfaction that in a time of pandemic and various organizational difficulties we have succeeded We get to this point, translated several times. I thank the Minister for his patience and for his cooperation in choosing a possible rapid deadline. The texts of the information are contained in prints 49 and 178. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union considered the information provided and informed the Senate marshal. I would like to welcome the European Union Minister, Mr Konrad Szymański, present at the meeting. And I ask the Minister to take the floor and to present the information in print 49 and in print 178. [[Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you very much. I have one question: is it acceptable to remove protection measures in the course of the speeches?]] Yes, Minister. We keep our distance and definitely better Senators participating in remotely hear speeches... The Minister has a loud voice, but not everyone has one. So that we allow the appearance without masks.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The consideration of this point has actually delayed in time, initially due to the convergence of the dates of the Senate meetings and of the European Council meetings which directly bind me. Then, of course, to a much greater extent, the pandemic restrictions have affected that today, together, we are considering 2 documents, 2 government information on Polish policy from July 2019 to the end of June 2020, i.e. at a time when the Finnish Presidency and then the Croatian Presidency were in place. As far as the beginning is concerned, it was primarily the time of the new institutional cycle. Today this case is long behind us, but certainly at the time it was the most important political fact. The Presidency thus had less time to deal with strictly policy issues. To a large extent, the institutions were busy to restore the new political cycle, to choose the authorities, Parliament, the Commission and the European Council. This certainly affected the rhythm of the Presidency's work. Certainly to the most important elements that I would like to mention at the Senate meeting, all other elements of course you will find in very comprehensive information, which, as always, we have prepared for you on this issue. The climate was one of the most important things. At the end of the Presidency, in December 2019 we recognised that the European Union as a whole This is extremely important: as a whole, it can afford to commit itself to achieving climate neutrality by 2050. However, this does not mean an obligation of individual Member States, and in particular it does not mean an obligation of Poland to achieve this level of CO2 reduction already in 2050, because, as we know very well, it is simply impossible without unacceptable, in our opinion, losses for the competitiveness of the Polish economy, economic and social losses. This was the reason why at the time Poland was focused on ensuring that the objective of neutrality was a collective objective of the Union, but not translated into the neutrality of individual Member States, at least as far as legal obligations are concerned. Since then, there has been an intensive discussion in which Poland pays particular attention to 3 principles. It is not only cost efficiency that is important, but above all the fair nature of climate change. We do not question the meaning of the CO2 reduction measures, but note that this transformation must not have an unfair effect, the effects of this nature, that less developed economies pay disproportionately more for the transformation. That's the point. also the last meeting of the European Council, at which all these principles have been repeated by all Member States. So I think that in this case we have a good agreement at Union level, an agreement that this transition should be fair, should take into account the protection of the competition of the European economy, should react actively, not only through political declarations but actively, to a very high risk of business relocation, particularly when it comes to energy intensive industries, beyond the borders of the European Union. Such actions would not make any sense from a climate point of view, because the same emissions, or perhaps even larger ones, would appear elsewhere, e.g. right beyond our borders, and they would have negative economic consequences for Europe and Poland, which is of course the most important for us. At the time, there was also an impasse as regards the multiannual budget. Today, this problem is close to being solved, but at the time, this impasse was very serious. Poland was part of a fairly broad group of countries which were very critical of the European Commission's initial budget proposal. On the one hand, this budget was simply smaller and, on the other hand, an objective statement dictated by countries that often refer to their European conscience, but do not want to pay for the European project. On the other hand, we thought that these cuts were misplaced, unfair. That is why we were among the most critical countries in relation to the original assumptions of the draft multiannual budget. A separate element of this package was, of course, conditionality regarding the rule of law. We have pointed out that the secondary law of the European Union cannot change the Treaty order, and such a risk exists and still exists to a certain extent in this case. These doubts I stress that they have been divided not only by some Member States but also by the legal services of the Council of the European Union. We asked for legal analysis of this draft act, which is official and institutional. To a large extent, our doubts were divided there. This dispute hasn't ended to this day. The third important issue is the future of the common market. Finland is traditionally a country very involved in the common market. As Poland, we are involved in the work of a group of friends of the common market, a group of countries which strives to ensure that these political declarations, which we often make in the common market, can be converted into concrete ones, in particular the legislative ones. There is a large deficit here: on the one hand, the high declarations, including the European Council, adopted annually, concerning the future of the common market, actually the common market, which is the main source of economic potential, also the potential for economic recovery of the European Union, and on the other hand the inability to take legislative action even in the case of very modest, beneficial, sensible, but modest initiatives in relation to needs. I am referring to the notification directive or the e-service card, which was intended to help small and medium-sized enterprises to provide services in the common market. We have not been able to agree on this for years, even though all governments have been willing to declare their attachment to the common market, to believe that the common market is the achievement of European integration, etc. The mobility package, which was agreed with the European Parliament at the time of the Finnish Presidency, is an extreme example of the divergence of the European Union's declarations and political practice. Parliament has dictated even worse solutions than those agreed by the Council. This led us to a completely current situation. On 26 October, Poland and several other countries decided to challenge these acts of European Union law to the Court of Justice of the European Union by raising fundamental arguments. Firstly, they are legal acts which restrict the provision of services in the common market in the interests of the protection of social rights, but by proposing solutions which are completely disproportionate. In particular, this concerns restrictions on international cabotage, the discriminatory obligation to return cars to the base. It is discriminatory in particular for countries outside the European Union that have further to the European Union's economic centres. Poland is also one of these countries. The third issue is the totally arbitrary treatment of posted workers' obligations in the case of the mobility sector. All these arguments were raised in pleadings, which were submitted by Poland not only on 26 October. To the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Finnish Presidency had our strong support on the agenda for internal security, including a very hot topic at the time. He naturally came off the front page of the newspapers today because of the pandemic circumstances in which we live, but then, immediately after the election, it was a very hot topic. The hybrid threats to democracy. These threats are affecting the stability of our entire political system. Poland has not yet felt this, has not had any experience that would indicate such enormous risks as in some other Member States, but we strongly encourage The European Union to do much more together in the face of hybrid threats to internal security. I'm sure you're very disappointed. But in no way is this the fault of the Finnish Presidency, that is the fault of the political constraints of some of the capitals of the Member States of the European Union, was the fall... the inability to make a decision in relation to the Western Balkans. At the time, Poland sought to make the expansion process for the Western Balkans unfreeze, and it was revived. In our own EU interest, Europe should be active there because there is very tight strategic competition there. Not only is Europe present, but there is Russia, China, Turkey. This is the reason why the inability to conduct the expansion process is completely contrary to the Union interest. This is not just the interests of the countries of the region, e.g. Croatia, or a wider region, including Poland. It is a deep EU interest to be present there through the enlargement process, which is the strongest tool for political dialogue, for the development of political cooperation, for a tool aimed at positive change. The lack of a decision in October was certainly a political failure. It was repaired under the Croatian Presidency, as I will speak in a moment. At the time, Poland was the Presidency of the Berlin Process, an initiative focused on the Western Balkans, so it was all the more a mandate to take a stand on this issue. A certain paradox, one could say, was that the failure of the decision on the Western Balkans took place shortly after the statement made by the newly elected President of the European Commission that this new European Commission would be geopolitical. That's a good idea. Of course, we would like to see the details of these assumptions, but basically this is a very good idea. However, a few weeks after this statement, it turned out that this geopolitical aspirations of the European Union The correct geopolitical aspirations of the European Union have collided with the reality of the EU, which looked just like this, and meant that it was inability to make a decision on enlargement. With this baggage, we entered the beginning of 2020 and the Croatian Presidency. And all these political plans, well formulated, well calibrated in dialogue with the Member States, including Poland, which Zagreb presented at that time, collided with a completely sudden, unexpected situation such as the pandemic. It is not only about its health consequences directly affecting the security of our countries and societies, but also about the economic and economic consequences of this event. In view of this, Croatia faced an unprecedented situation in which we had to make quick, sudden decisions that we had never had to make before. It was an unprecedented situation. This was not only about changing the agenda, which happens even under the influence of, say, less important facts, it was also a question of changing working methods. Today, all these effects of the pandemic continue to affect us, but we are smarter about the experience of recent months, so it is easier for all of us to plan political activities, to plan the work of the European Union. Croatia was suddenly on the first line during this collision, and I would therefore like to express my extraordinary appreciation here, far beyond the ordinary courtesy of this Presidency. The very rapid reorganization of the work of the European Union required imagination, it required preparation, it required leadership, and this was achieved by Croatia at that time. Of course, all the plans that I will say a few more words about later, because not everything has been frozen, are in the shadow of the need to react quickly on many fronts, to react to the pandemic situation. Firstly, it is a procedural issue, but important Croatia has decided to launch the platform very quickly, you can say crisis management, political crisis management in the Union. This was an appropriate decision because it allowed, despite the already existing, very far-reaching restrictions on travel, to maintain the political process in Brussels. Secondly, there were rapid, very desirable regulatory changes, in particular as regards State aid, which proved necessary. Time played a role here as never before, time was money then. Another important issue, which was also a very important problem for Poland, was the change in the rules for allocating access to airports. Sudden air traffic congestion at European airports if existing rules of the game were to be applied could result in loss of access to airports by carriers such as LOT who are developing At the time, this was particularly evident. And they're looking for new opportunities, not to collapse these opportunities when it comes to accessing airports, which is negotiated and obtained with enormous difficulty. The third issue in the first package of actions was, of course, budgetary shifts. The aim was to allow the use of the 2 decision-making tranches of the European Union budget, which was agreed many, many years earlier, for pandemic-related purposes. At the time, Poland was critical of these actions, because we paid attention to one key thing. We have pointed out that the scale of economic damage, the scale of losses throughout the European economy is far beyond the cosmetic changes in the budget. We have insisted, encouraged, raised from the outset that if the European Union is to play an adequate role in what was happening and what is going on then, it must generate much more serious measures, it must generate much more serious, unprecedented instruments of action. The first swallow of this type of change was the April decision to launch loan instruments using the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, and finally a whole new initiative called SURE, an initiative aimed at saving the labour market, improving labour market failures in the context of the pandemic crisis. I am pleased to say that Poland received the first tranche of aid under the mechanism yesterday. SURE. We are among the first 3 countries to receive support under this mechanism at all. We have acted very quickly and effectively on this matter. Together with Italy and Spain, we will be among the main beneficiaries of this instrument. But then we also pointed out that although the scale of these actions is already correct... Well, it was 750 billion in loans. Very privileged, attractive, but only loans. We've been paying attention. On 8 May Poland sent to the capitals of the Member States a very comprehensive document on what the budget should look like, this new budget. We have pointed out that it is not enough for some countries to offer loans because these countries already have problems handling their own debt. That is why, in this position of 8 May, in addition to many other elements relating to the budget itself, we have pointed out that it is necessary to generate a mechanism of a grant nature. And that's what happened. Even behind the Croatian Presidency, the European Commission has not only presented a renewed package of the multiannual financial framework, but has also added a second component, namely the European Instrument for Reconstruction, which has opened the way to weakening the criticism of this package on our part, and to agree on a common position, which happened in July, already behind the German Presidency. The benefits that have not been linked to the pandemic, and which, despite the pandemic, have been achieved at that time, during the Croatian Presidency, are certainly three things that I would like to mention in addition. The first thing is to unlock the enlargement process. This is a decisive success of this Presidency. Poland strongly supported, first at the level of the General Affairs Council, all the actions that aimed at shaping a difficult, fragile and, let us be frank, imperfect compromise, which nevertheless opened the way to thawing the enlargement process. It is Albania, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, which are already in this process. We have drawn attention to this argument, which I have already mentioned, i.e. strategic competition. It's not a question of charity, it's a question of one's own well-understood business. The second point is another aspect of the migration debate. On 4 June, Poland, among 7 other countries, presented its expectations as regards the potential compromise on migration, a compromise on a matter that has burdened the political agenda of the European Union for 5 years. This proposal was, of course, focused on the protection of external borders, on conditional access to development assistance for those countries which are sources of irregular, uncontrolled, illegal migration, but also on enhancing cooperation on readmission and return. We see very many elements of this position in the new package of the European Commission, which has recently been announced. This package still doesn't meet all our expectations, and I'd like to make that clear. But it's certainly a step in the right direction. The last thing to mention is, of course, the entry into force of an agreement governing Britain's exit from the European Union. This agreement entered into force on 1 February. This is clearly negative for the European Union, also from a Polish point of view, we also view it as a negative event, although the entry into force of this agreement is so necessary, necessary and useful from our point of view that it contains international guarantees regarding the rights acquired by Poles living in the UK, so that they will not depend on the different political waves in the British Parliament. These guarantees are international in nature, are the most durable guarantees you can imagine, and have the widest scope you can imagine, because they are based on the model of protection of the rights applicable to citizens of the Member States of the European Union. This is, of course, despite all this negative context, an extremely positive circumstance. The agreement also highlighted a vision of future economic and political relations between Britain and the European Union, but this has not yet been negotiated. There is a huge risk of dispersal in this particular area, except for exit issues without a contract, but we are doing everything we can to make this agreement possible. This, of course, goes beyond Croatian issues, so I will not develop it. Certainly, the two presidencies acted under very different conditions. The key fact for the first six months of 2020 was the European Union's response to the crisis, the response, as I said, initially very inadequate, at the end It's adequate. Let us hope that it will be implemented in practice, especially in relation to those countries that are most vulnerable to the economic consequences of what is happening. We have certainly taken a lot of steps towards making key decisions, addressing the Union's key policy problems in the area of migration and climate. These decisions still do not exist, but it is worth appreciating the fact that in both cases these discussions are moving towards the expectations that are being expressed, among others. Poland. On climate issues Here we expect a decision in the near future Poland has recently presented, in the same form of a very detailed, comprehensive document, a vision of reform of the ETS system so that it meets the expectations of countries such as Poland, regions such as Silesia, but not only, and sectors of the economy which are present in Poland and which may suffer as a result of a prudent climate policy planned in isolation from the economic realities of the Member States. So that these are the possibilities to close these conflicts. There is no guarantee, but we certainly took a step in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u80	Thank you very much, Minister, for presenting the report. Would any of your senators like to ask you questions about the information provided? As first Senator Chybick, remotely. If I may ask the Minister to come closer, then... There's probably two people on the list for the questions so far, but Senator Jackowski has already come forward... [[Voice from the room: Second.]] Okay, good. Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for your vote. Dear Senators! Dear Minister, On page 32 of the report on the Croatian Presidency, which you presented, a report on Poland's participation in health issues begins. And here's basically two questions. It says only, very briefly, that Poland actively participates in the work on the European Pharmaceutical Strategy, and there is not a word there, for example. vaccines. My question is: why? In Germany and other countries of the European Union flu vaccines were and are available, Poles travel abroad with Polish prescriptions to bring these vaccines to the country, and we do not have them. It's like the Minister is kind enough to get a closer look at what this activity was all about... Because on this page or one and a half This is page 32 and a piece of page 33 in this report. In fact, this activity in the field of health care is not presented in the fight against the COVID epidemic, because it was already COVID time. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u82	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u83	On the issue of pharmaceutical policy, let me put it this way: Poland's activity was particularly visible when it came to drawing conclusions for the future after the first months of the pandemic. Poland, among 9 countries, has presented a clearly outlined strategy in the EU, including towards the institutions, vis-à-vis the European Commission, aimed at shortening the value chains, in short, to Europeanise the production and availability of everything needed to produce vaccines and vaccines themselves. The first experience of the 9 countries that presented this problem was the belief that our pharmaceutical dependence is too high. This was shown by the first months of the pandemic and I think that this is the first thing to be noticed. At that time Poland also joined the European Union's purchasing mechanism in this area. Unfortunately, this mechanism was too slow to respond to events, to the events of those weeks and those months. This is not essentially a charge, this mechanism was built for peace time, for a time without problems, not for a time of crisis, and during the crisis this mechanism proved to be far too slow. As regards vaccines directly linked to the pandemic, I will say that Poland participates in the European solidarity initiative, on the one hand, that the European Union, including Poland, has committed money to research, to speed up research against 5 different actors, on the other hand, we have reduced the regulatory requirements for the process of allowing vaccines to be placed on the market. It still hasn't produced the expected results, and we hear it's delayed all the time. That's the reality. But certainly the European Union's response to this issue, in this third phase, was appropriate and Poland strongly supported it. We are a participant in this mechanism. Poland, and thus Poles, have the same rapid access to the vaccine on COVID as all other citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, I have the following question. Namely, much is being discussed at the moment in the European Union about the merger... You mentioned these tedious negotiations on the budgetary perspective. We know that there is also the issue of this special fund, the Fund for Reconstruction. True, at that time, during the period we are discussing, this issue has not yet existed, but I have the question: what were the discussions on the link between the rule of law mechanism and the allocation of EU funds in terms of the fact that it is not enshrined in the Treaties or is not in the European Union, as we know the definition of the rule of law, is not defined as what it would be, there is no specific definition of what are the rules? What was the situation during this period of your report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u87	The case has been known to us since 2018 because the European Commission also presented a mechanism for changing the conditionality of access to EU funds together with the budgetary elements. From the very beginning Poland has presented exactly the same position. First, the sanctioning article cannot be amended by secondary law. 7. On a sanctioned article. 7 we agreed, he's there, he works as he does, and he shouldn't be sidelined by secondary law. In a way, it would be a scandal on the ground of the rule of law if we were to change the primary law of the European Union by secondary law. I mean, it's like we're changing the law. Constitution. The second thing is legal certainty. And it has to do with the fact that the rule of law is a concept of how we have learned in particular over the past few years, extremely large. If we review the Council or Commission documents on this issue, we will see the different scopes of this position. If we looked at the European Parliament's documents, it would turn out that this concept has no boundaries in principle, because under the pretext of the rule of law, the European Parliament is able to enter literally everything, everything that at present does not like the majority that is in the European Parliament. And this is worrying, because if it turns out that this concept is so large and so rubber, it means that it can be used in any matter depending on political needs. We strongly support all the measures that are used to effectively combat corruption and the fraud of public funds, including EU funds. And in this respect, there is no controversy between us, I think. I think that many Member States are beginning to understand and are also beginning to understand that the legal basis which is indicated in this Regulation, namely Article. 322 does not allow the creation of mechanisms aimed at anything other than protecting the financial interests of the European Union. And here's the area to talk about. But certainly Poland will not agree to discretionary mechanisms, mechanisms which would allow the possibility of limiting Member States' rights to political demands. This is not acceptable, especially after the experience of recent years, when we have seen that this can have completely unpredictable effects, which is incompatible with the very essence of the rule of law, which is the principle of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u88	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u89	I'd like to ask you one more question, Minister. I am immediately warning you that this issue goes beyond the Presidency we are talking about. We know that there is a German Presidency at the moment, but also the German Presidency in this area. If the Minister would like to comment on this, she had the so-called. a compromise idea on how to implement this declaration or European Parliament resolution on the link between the rule of law... and this was supposed to be called. a compromise formula that would de facto change the mechanism so that it is not the Council... that there would be no consensus at the European Council, only a qualified majority. This would in fact open up the possibility to apply measures of this type. What is the situation today? Well, I think it's very important from the point of view of our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u91	One of the key changes proposed by the German Presidency is the departure from the principle of the reversed qualified majority, which in principle deprived the Council of any significant role. It means the role of the Council in the opinion, in the light of the European Commission's proposal, would be completely illusory. This is a derogation from the principle of the reversed qualified majority in favour of a qualified majority, i.e. the normal way of dealing with the Council in legislative cases. This is, of course, a step in the right direction, but it is definitely not enough, because it does not solve all the doubts about the scope of the regulation itself and the mechanisms for launching the regulation. That is why we do not have an agreement on this matter and that is why Poland belongs to those countries which cannot agree to this solution. Nevertheless, I have the impression that among those countries that I have been talking about more widely and enigmatic, that these countries understand our arguments on this issue, they understand what we are talking about in terms of legal certainty, the protection of financial interests, the budgetary interests... that Berlin belongs to these countries. However, there are also countries at this table that still do not allow this compromise to be realistic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u92	Thank you very much. Who else? Senator Jackowski again?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u93	Yes. Thank you very much, Marshal. I would now be more concerned with this Croatian Presidency, because we are considering together... the period during which Europe was in a pandemic. Because the Minister in his information didn't actually develop this thread. And I would like to know how the Polish government evaluates what happened during this Presidency in terms of the European Union's action to combat pandemics. We know that health policies are excluded here. I'll tell you right away, the direction of the answer. However, a pandemic in Europe was undoubtedly such a major problem during this Presidency. Not only in terms of health, in terms of the safety of life and health of European citizens, but also in terms of the economic context. What did it look like from the perspective of Warsaw? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u94	Thank you very much. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u95	Of course, as far as health issues are concerned, and also closely related to public security And this is a problem that we have faced in connection with the restrictions that we have put in place when it comes to people's movement, not just cross-border, but also in our cities, in our countries. The European Union has no leading powers. It can possibly encourage coordination, may issue soft recommendations, which is worth it, which is not worth it. And I think it's a pretty natural situation. It would be difficult to imagine that better decisions would be taken at a higher level when the epidemic situation of the Member States was and to some extent it is still It's so diverse. So, I guess this state of affairs isn't bad. However, we have stressed from the outset that the European Union has a huge role to play in combating the economic effects of the pandemic. This is not only related to direct labour market support instruments, business sectors, it is related to the regulatory actions I mentioned The aim is to loosen the rules on state aid, to change the rules on the allocation of airport access. These are sectoral issues, but crucial for these sectors of the economy. They shouldn't be treated as narrow. So the role of the Union is great here. That is why we have encouraged from the beginning not to limit ourselves to cosmetic activities. And at the very beginning, the first one, so to speak, had a tranche of reaction. In our opinion, Beauty character. Only the second tranche, unfortunately, only the loan, and the third tranche, fortunately with a strong grant element Although not as strong as originally planned, let's be honest. This was an adequate response to the crisis. This was the reason why our position in February and March was skeptical, and in June and July It's positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, as my colleague, Senator Jackowski, has preceded my question, but I would like to get back to the subject, because we know... There was a great discussion in the Sejm and in the Senate about whether the European Union's assistance in the fight against COVID was implemented on the basis of the transfer of funds, i.e. the use of resources that we have under different policies "Whether it's cohesion policy or the CAP or other policies" Or there were additional decisions that caused significant resources to affect the fight against COVID, not only for Poland, but also for other countries. Is the German Presidency continuing this now?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u98	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u99	I think that we still need to stick to some proportion when it comes to assessing these actions and taking into account the context. I do not think it is bad or unhelpful to shift cohesion policy funds to objectives directly related to the fight against pandemics. That was, of course, rational, because at the time these needs were the needs of number one. In that context, however, we have pointed out that such instruments are simply inadequate in relation to the economic damage that the pandemic is causing and will bring in a moment. And I think that this view has gone through, because an agreement has been reached on an unprecedented instrument, a reconstruction instrument, a grant fund that takes into account not only treaty policies but also the direct anti-crisis plans of individual countries. That's the right answer. That one was inadequate, although, of course, it was going in the right direction. It should also be borne in mind that the Union's financial constraints do not come out of nowhere. These financial constraints, and sometimes the inability to operate the amounts we consider adequate, are derived from the very specific political constraints of the Member States. The paradox of this situation is that they are Member States who are very eager to invoke their European consciences, account for others from Europeanity and show themselves as a model for this Europeanity. In this particular case, Poland, of course with a group of countries, defended an adequate European response to the crisis and other countries encouraged this response to be as small as possible. Well, the European Union's least possible response to the crisis is to build a European Union that is becoming inadequate to the real challenges of people and countries. I don't know if this is a good scenario for the Union for the future. This seems to be a suicide scenario for the Union. Maintaining a very loud, declarative political agenda, talking about expectations inside and outside while unable to act, to be specific... There's got to be something specific behind the declarations. And that doesn't just concern the response to the crisis. This also applies, as I mentioned, to the completion of the common market declaration. Apart from direct action, in addition to a direct response to the crisis, the single market remains the most important resource for economic growth and recovery for the European Union as a whole. The fact that this resource is not being used is not a coincidence. This is linked to the wave of protectionism and the wave of disbelief in the common market, which does not in any way concern Central Europe. It concerns certain states of the north. And that's the serious problem we're gonna be facing over the next few years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u100	Thank you very much. No further questions. Let me inform you that the list of speakers... [[There's still...]] Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. I didn't see you. Ask me a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You see me less and less, but... Minister, the last year without pandemics, without major perturbation, the year budgetly closed is 2019. Could you give me two numbers, i.e. How much has Poland achieved in total from the Union and how much has Poland contributed to the Union budget? It's going to work out whether we're a net payer or a net beneficiary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I promise I'll lay low to see you. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u103	The concrete figures for annual accounts are in an annex to the information I provided to you, of course I do not remember them. I can say one thing: Poland is certainly a beneficiary of the European Union budget both in 2019 and in previous years, it will also be a beneficiary of the future multiannual financial framework and will also be a beneficiary of the European Instrument for Reconstruction, in particular in those areas that are most important to us, in areas such as cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, the Fair Transformation Fund. There Poland is at the head of countries that use these instruments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u104	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Voice from the room: List of questioners.]] I'm sorry. The list of questioners has been exhausted. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a joint discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Yesterday, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we had a very thorough discussion about the Croatian Presidency and the German Presidency. Today we are going back a little bit, and we are also talking about the Finnish Presidency. And from both the questions asked just now and from the answers, the Minister's statement shows that one of the key topics which concerned the attention of the Government of the Republic of Poland was the question of a mechanism binding the rule of law with the funds of the European Union. And this is indeed the subject that has been appearing in the media for a long time. Let us remind you that already in 2018. The Commission has proposed to link these two principles. In the meantime, we had an event that upset a very large part of the public opinion in Poland, namely the statement of the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, who threatened veto in the case of regulations that would concern the multiannual financial framework and the EU Fund for Reconstruction. This veto would mean that Poland could be deprived of very important contributions to our national budget. I will quote these words because they are extremely shocking words: "European Union institutions" says President Kaczyński Some politicians, whom Poles have never chosen anywhere, demand that we verify our entire culture, reject everything that is important to us because they like it so much. It's not like there's any other justification. There is no sign of the Treaty's justification; this is contrary to our declaration of cultural sovereignty taken by the Sejm before the entry into the European Union. There will be no consent for such actions. We will defend our identity, our freedom, our sovereignty at all costs. We're not gonna be terrorized by money. It'll be a veto. Who's talking? Is this what the supporter of Poland's integration with other international structures outside the European Union says? Oh, no. Does this say anyone who is not responsible for the current government policy, which represents a 38 million-dollar nation belonging to the European Union? Oh, no. This is from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Are these statements from someone who does not understand what sovereignty is, what identity is, what money is from the European Union budget, and what is the idea of linking the rule of law with these funds of the European Union? No, it is not possible that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government would not know all this. So this person is consciously saying this, it is someone who is aware that such large funds as are within reach for the next 7 years and additional funds from the Fund for Reconstruction can pass to Poles in front of their eyes that Poles can not benefit from them just because the regulations adopted under a single legislative package will be vetoed. What kind of money are we talking about? Well, we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the amount of more than EUR 2 trillion, if you add up everything that relates to the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, and what concerns the Next Generation Fund, to the fight against the effects of the pandemic, a fund with an amount of EUR 750 billion. Of course, these are total funds for all Member States, but Poland has been reserved within this multiannual financial perspective and the Next Generation fund 94 billion for agricultural or structural policy and 28 billion for combating the effects of pandemics. Let me repeat: 94 billion plus 28 billion. This means that there is a €160 to 173 billion waiting for us from Brussels. There are polemics between accountants if you add to this another 35 billion euro credit from the Reconstruction Fund, with deferred repayment by 2058. This is a gigantic scale of resources. No one has yet said that such money could pass to Poles in front of their noses just because they do not want to carry out an assessment of how in all Member States, I point out: everyone, including Poland, is respected by the rule of law, this rule of law, which was perfectly understood by the founding fathers of the Third Republic of Poland, typing it into the constitution in an article saying that Poland is a democratic state of law, and creating various institutions, which stood on the watch over this principle, starting with the Constitutional Court, through free courts, and ending with free media, which guarantee every citizen access to independent, true information. We know what the rule of law is, and we know how it should be respected. And here suddenly it turns out that some fear comes out of the rulers... In fact, I would say more strongly: the fear, some anxiety connected with the fact that here is the rule of law in Poland and in all other countries to be evaluated. It is to be judged by our institution, which is the European Commission, by our institution, which is the European Parliament, by our institution, which is the Council of the European Union. This is some kind of total panic, it is some kind of horror connected with the fact that here someone from our European institutions will judge the state of the rule of law, also in Poland. What's behind this fear? In my opinion, the pursuit of the same as was recently attempted in the Seym, namely the introduction of the principle of impunity. The pursuit of impunity for those who are in power, such as those who are in power, is behind this. Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who, let's face it, with unbelievable nonchalance, was able to allocate PLN 70 million to the missed envelope elections without any legal basis. It's a crime, it's against the law, because there was no legal basis to do it. And here, too, is that the politicians and officers of the state apparatus who commit violations of the law, violations of the constitution and violations of laws should be covered. But this also shows that the king is naked, it shows in fact that one of the most important politicians of the camp holding power is able to imagine that Poland and Poles will be deprived of such gigantic money to defend and protect the impunity of their officials, that the interest of Poland, which is to obtain as much money as possible for the development of our country, falls to the other plan, that the most important is power and its exercise, that the most important thing is to hold on to this power. And, ladies and gentlemen, this could be put on the agenda, if not for what we have been observing for several days behind our windows, where young Poles and Poles protest not only against the illegal position of the Constitutional Tribunal, not only against a group of people dressed in robes who dare to call themselves the Constitutional Tribunal, in a situation where, as we have said for five years, the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland was destroyed and replaced by an impostor... And they sit in this trap of the Constitutional Tribunal and dare to give judgments in the majesty of the Republic of Poland. The young Poles protest not only against this particular position of the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal. They protest against lawlessness, protest against violation of the rule of law, demand All you have to do is read and listen to what they say. In Poland, they demand the replacement of an independent Constitutional Court... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me...]] ...they're demanding Finally, Mrs Marshal, the reconstruction of the independence of the judiciary, calls for the budget of the State to be spent on the right objectives, including. to protect the health of citizens during the pandemic, not to finance the propaganda tube of the ruling party into which TVP was turned. And now, to put it this way: if we want the Polish state to be healed, according to what Poles and Poles are demanding behind our windows on the streets and on the squares of the whole of Poland, this kind of proposal, this kind of announcement of a veto, in relation to both the multiannual budget for 2021 and the EU Fund for Reconstruction, should be met with our condemnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Between July and December 2019 the European Union led by Finland had a significant turn towards the transformation of the European economy and the fight against climate change. On 11 December, a project of the European Green Deal was presented... [[Disruption during the speech]] These initiatives shape internal policies until 2050, with both opportunities and threats. The Polish Government has not taken a clear stand on this issue. The lack of concrete declarations, contradictory, illogical or even compromising statements of some Polish politicians have... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...is treated as an outsider and therefore has the slightest impact on policy-making in this area. This is worrying because we will have to do much more in our country for environmental protection than the governments of other countries. This is also due to the fact that in the last 5 years all environmental measures have been stopped by our government. Ms Marshal, High Izbo, during the Finnish Presidency, work on the multiannual financial framework has been stepped up. Due to the conflicting interests of the Member States, it took a long time to find a satisfactory solution. The theme of the rule of law and the creation of a solution guaranteeing its compliance were most frequently raised in heated discussions. Finally, in 2019 Member States failed to reach an agreement on this issue. Here, too, our... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...She was in the middle of negotiations at a disadvantage. The constant accusations of violating the rule of law against the Polish government were not helpful. Therefore, the needs of the country as discussed by our diplomats were not met with a satisfactory response. Let me give you one example. We have lost our negotiating position on the mobility package. I would just like to remind you that exports of our transport services in the European Union account for 30% all exports in the Union. We lost this package. There were records very unfavorable for our Polish transporters. I'll also remind you... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...300,000 employees in this sector. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, the period of the Finnish Presidency is also the time to choose the most important authorities in the European Union. Ursula von der Leyen was elected President of the European Commission and Charles Michel became President of the European Council. The atmosphere of these elections was very turbulent this time. Former Commission President-in-Office, Frans Timmermans was not approved, among others. by opposition from the Polish Government. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...a very responsible position on the implementation of the European Green Deal. All this confusion hasn't improved the international image of our country. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...have led to a reaction in the form of a boycott of our representatives seeking different positions. The government's proposal to apply for Mr Janusz Wojciechowski as Commissioner for Agriculture was very stubborn. Eventually, he became the Commissioner, but with great difficulties. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, summing up... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...the European Union often... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Last events that shape politics and define relationships within the community... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, we've stopped hearing you.]] Please? [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Oh, now, we hear again. We haven't heard the last two sentences.]] I would just like to stress that during this period the Polish government has shown great activity, but the effectiveness of these actions leaves much to be desired. At that time, the Croatian Presidency took place during the period of January 2020 and July 2020. The Croatian Presidency has come to a difficult time, in time for pandemics. I would like to express my great respect for the team responsible for the Croatian Presidency, which, on the one hand, had only a few days to verify the political plans of the Presidency and, on the other hand, had just as little time to change the procedures for conducting the Presidency, including the introduction of the entire technological, digital cycle, so that communication could be made. And for that very much in our country... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...any changes made by the government... We can imagine the situation in which the Croatian Presidency is in, and we can see how well it has dealt with it. With all my heart, congratulations. The need to prevent the spread of Coronavirus and to combat the effects of pandemics has distracted attention from the European Union's policy themes. It was necessary to bring more than 700,000 citizens of the European Union home. The coordination of this work was almost impossible and yet successful. At an express pace in the course of difficult cooperation between 28 countries, the Presidency has led to more flexible public aid, to the much needed in this first stage... ...Public aid transfers from 2020 She introduced... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...borrowing due to difficulties in the labour market related to the koravirus. The reconstruction plan, Investment Plan, SURE has become a priority for the Croatian Presidency. The Polish Government has tried to achieve the greatest possible benefit from the aid offered by the European Union. Although the money obtained will have to be returned, Polish politicians have tried to ensure that the level of support is as high as possible and that there is no provision on the rule of law mechanism. As the Minister said, the first tranche of this aid was sent to Poland yesterday. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, January 2020 is also the time for Britain to leave the European Union. A transitional period has begun and it has become necessary to seek agreement on future relations. During Croatia's presidency, the groundwork for discussion has been established, but no agreement has yet been reached. Initiatives have also been taken on the Balkans. There have been discussions with Albania and Northern Macedonia on accession to the European Union. The last chapter was opened, along with Montenegro. Finally, a convention was held in Zagreb and the Zagreb Declaration was announced. However, in these activities it is difficult to find significant participation of the Polish government. And the greatest attention is drawn to our... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...in terms of the Eastern Partnership. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...the European Union has been able to set 5 policy objectives, covering economics, the rule of law and security, the environment, digital transformation and fair societies. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Croatia's leadership time in the European Union was one of the hardest times in the history of the community. The fear of the greatest challenge faced by the COVID-19 pandemic has given to the entire Croatian Presidency. The cancelled meetings or problems within the countries have made the European Union less dynamic than usual. Nevertheless, initiatives have been taken that can benefit our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The joint discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u109	I think that a few things should either be added or simply corrected, because in some cases we are dealing with a rather loose relationship with facts, and this should not be left without comment. Firstly, the issue of conditionality related to the rule of law is certainly not one of the key problems of the Polish government in the EU. If you had taken the document we gave you, you would have noticed that this case is perhaps two or three pages out of 200. And that's the proportion I suggest we use on this case. The attention you devote to this matter is understood as a consequence of your own political expectations, your willingness, your political demands. But certainly what is one of the major elements of the European debate, in which Poland took an active part, can be seen from the results, as a result of the decisions and solutions adopted. These are issues such as climate, migration, Brexit, the common market. I have talked about this very much, not for the first time, in this forum, so I would ask that, despite political appetites, we see the proportions in all of this. Of course, this does not mean that the rule of law is meaningless, on the contrary. It is a very toxic 2018 idea, which actually introduces very big concerns, tensions within the European Union. This was the reason why we encouraged them to give up such initiatives, because they do not build an agreement within the European Union. But let us be honest: the veto related to decisions that are adopted unanimously is always part of this landscape. The veto hung over the budget agreement from the outset as soon as these proposals were submitted in 2018. No one should be surprised that not only capitals such as Warsaw, but also the Hague, but also the European Parliament do not hold back at this stage from using the word "veto" because there are reasons for it. I appreciate that the state, at least in the person of President Klich, took the trouble to see what the budgetary position of Poland looks like in this agreement, from which we are one step away, but we are not there yet. It looks very good. Only at the same time do not say that the negotiating position of Poland has been weakened, as Senator Jazłowiecka says. I suggest that you agree on the thesis, because these thesis are simply contradictory. If we listened to your advice in 2018, this net position of Poland in both of these instruments would certainly not look like this. This net position looks like this because in 2018, contrary to your words, also in this House, we did not say that great, we did not say that we did not, by all means, say that we absolutely liked it. No, that's not what we said. We have made it clear that we do not like the fact that this budget, which was proposed in 2018, is a budget in which cuts are broken down unfairly. And that's the only reason this position has improved. I think it's part of the negotiation. That we weren't inclined Listen to your advice to clap for every single billion euros. We see a broader plan, we also see other countries' positions in this hand, and that's how we judge it, a little calmer. I think it is quite clear that no serious state, certainly not Warsaw, has an idea to reduce its political rights only because it is the beneficiary of one or the other programme. We are talking about the systemic issues of the European Union, the position of the Member States within such an organisation as the European Union. There is no room for recklessness here, there is no room for this enthusiasm with which we meet, at least rhetorical enthusiasm at the sight of round sums, in which we should move on to the agenda that someone is shaping the mechanism of total discretion. What does that have to do with the rule of law? A recognised political mechanism that would actually allow, in particular in the 2018 version, to at least try to suspend payments only because someone in Poland does not like family law. No, I don't like it. This is not the Union we signed up for. This is not a Union that I would like to leave to the next generations, because I would like it to be a Union where everyone feels comfortable. And that's the thing, I think, the most important thing. Most important for this discussion, most important in this round of speeches. It is certainly undefensible that Poland was inactive on issues such as mobility and climate. Without Poland, the climate issue would have been closed long ago. Without Poland, the countries of the region would also be deprived of the ability to resist climate policy scenarios, which are written for the needs or economic interests of other countries. Without Poland, we wouldn't be on the EU table today. This has recently been presented to the Environment Council by a very concrete, pragmatic reform of the ETS. Without Poland, we would not have a few actions today at the Court of Justice of the European Union on mobility. So apart from the fact that you see these problems, which I am pleased with because the common definition of problems is a ground for agreement, please note and appreciate that in these matters we are doing what is right, from a Polish point of view. Not from a party point of view, not from an opposition point of view. From a Polish point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u110	Thank you, Minister, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union) and with information to the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January and June 2020 (the Presidency of Croatia in the Council of the European Union). We would like to return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Electronic Service Act. Would any of your senators like to ask any more questions to invited guests? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u111	I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Alexander Schwed. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, electronic communication between administrations and citizens is carried out via ePUAP feed boxes. According to the 2017 data, only 31% of people aged 16 and 74 are thus in contact with public administration. The purpose of the Electronic Service Act is to introduce the so-called. digital default, i.e. the primacy of digital solutions over traditional solutions. E-service becomes legally equal to sending a letter with confirmation of receipt or personal service. This will allow you to contact offices online without having to visit the post office. Citizens will be able to set up an e-box dedicated to electronic communication with offices. A hybrid service will be introduced for those who do not use digital technology to process correspondence sent and received electronically into paper form. The electronic service will be provided by the Polish Post by 2025 and a new operator will be selected in the tender. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! However, the Act on electronic services in its current form raises serious doubts. I'll give you two examples. One. The Act makes the provisions of the Act dependent on the type of body. Thus, in the government authorities they will be in effect from 1 January 2021; in ZUS, KRUS, NFZ, state control bodies and other state bodies from 1 January 2022, that is, one year later; in state special-purpose funds, in the Polish Academy of Sciences, in universities or in clinics, in hospitals, from January 2023, or another year later; in local government units from January 2024, and thus another year later, and in administrative and general courts, in the prosecutor's office and the Prison Service from 1 January 2029. In the case of courts, I think there's the greatest need for this to happen as soon as possible. As it turns out, the law process has been extended for a decade, and the judiciary, as I said, is at the end of the queue. However, the basis of each process is the proper delivery of correspondence to its parties and participants, and there are now huge problems with it, and there has been little change in the replacement of the so-called last year. fiction of service by the bailiff. We're gonna wait nine years for this to change. And look at how diverse our correspondence will be in the case of various institutions, even different institutions dealing with one subject. The second example is the worrying issue of the choice of Polish Post as an operator operating electronic delivery until 2025. The point is that our data is entrusted to an institution that has recently lost shares in the State Treasury. So how do we secure our correspondence in this institution? Dear Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, stating that the bill needs to be refined, I strongly support the activities related to the electronicisation of service, which many Poles are waiting for, but I think it should be done logically, substantively and transparently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u113	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me?]] It's very good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo Senack! This bill really creates a new quality. That's what we should all be happy about. That's what we should all be happy about. It is worth mentioning, for example, the environmental nature of the whole project. The transfer of official service to the digital world is of course a huge benefit for the whole environment. This is the benefit measured primarily in millions of saved cars, but also in thousands of tons of saved paper. Big deal. However, the law of the opposition is to criticize. It is worth mentioning that this law is still not free from faults and questionable elements. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka has just talked about this a lot, so I'm not going to say it again. There's a lot of controversy, for example. the requirement for payment of an electronic service service. Today, this service is free and, of course, it's great. I am not convinced by the argument of the Ministry indicating the need to secure Polish Post's revenue. We should all be equal before the law. - citizens, public institutions and economic operators operating on the market. I'd like to say that for 28 years I've run different companies and I've never had anything called a monopoly, and it's never been so that I get anything without a tender. And this timetable for the coming years for the entry into force of the law quite strongly, quite seriously disrupts this equality. The Act builds and consolidates the monopolistic position of the Polish Post until 2025. To be honest, this is nothing like a European regulation that regulates digital communication. This also has nothing to do with the principle of free competition on the market. About this competition I told you, setting your own personal example. Of course, it is no less important to maintain certain overriding European values: the principle of fair competition, the principle of equal market access, the principle of transparency or the principle of non-discrimination. When considering the role of the designated operator, it is worth stressing once again the need to safeguard the service so-called. hybrid service. It's nothing more than printing out an electronically transmitted package. That's probably the weakest point in the whole system, a point that the bill doesn't exactly describe. This requires the physical involvement of the Post employee, but it is not known how our right to privacy will be guaranteed. We hope that this issue will have a precise regulation in the lower order. In answer to questions, the Minister tried to talk about it today. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u115	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. [[Do we hear each other? Do we hear each other?]] You're on, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u116	We hear each other, okay. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is a law long awaited by citizens. Electronic communication is not only the convenience and reduced delivery time of correspondence, but also, as Senator Komarnicki just said, lower costs and, what is important, environmental protection. The amount of paper produced will be much smaller. We're proceeding over the so-called law. digital default, through which electronic communication is to be a basic form of dealing with official and postal matters. This is not an easy process. As an experienced self-government officer, I have to say that the process of digitising our offices or introducing electronic documents has been going on for years, which has not exactly worked in many offices, even though we have done so for years. It took years in my office, too. That's why this trial will continue. It's not like in this case, from tomorrow, this electronic document cycle will start to function. The dates of the law's implementation are quite distant, let's be aware of that. It's not like it's gonna work tomorrow. The service in the first phase will fall on the shoulders of the Polish Post, as Senator Komarnicki also mentioned. And everything will last until 2025. You have to remember that. This is, of course, an extreme date, but such a time is set for the implementation of this obligation fully. The next operator will be selected by invitation to tender, as the Minister also said, answering the doubts of Senator Komarnicki. May this be transparent, open and that all operators may proceed to such an invitation to tender. Full implementation of the system is to take place Okay, here's the until 1 October 2029. 9 years is the deadline quite remote, but because I have experience in the introduction of an electronic document circulation system, I understand that it is difficult and that it takes years. The main assumption of the new law is the transition to simple electronic correspondence in contact with public entities. This concerns the improvement of the communication of the citizen of the State. As the Minister said, every state institution will communicate with the citizen in an electronic manner, so it is to happen until 2029. Except that the law doesn't include civil status offices. That's why I'm making amendments to the bill. I hope that at the committee meeting we will make this successful and that these amendments will be adopted. The government has declared cooperation. I will give up some of the amendments, but the most important ones, leading to the possibility that civil status offices may also participate in this process, I submit. The purpose of these comments and amendments is to bring about a situation in which it will be possible to replace the documents currently produced for the purpose of the civil status register in paper form in electronic form, which will enable contact with the civil status office in electronic form. To sum up, I will say that the bill is needed, it is very difficult, it does not include everything, I hope it will be corrected in subsequent amendments, but I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u117	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Viktor Durlak, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Jan Hamerski and Wadi Tyszkiewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 59 to 14 minutes 03]] We're adjourned. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the restriction of civil rights. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 237 and the report is published in print No 237 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft resolution on the limitation of civil rights, in print No 237. On 26 October 2020, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution on the limitation of civil rights to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to consider it at first reading. The committees at their joint meeting on 28 October 2020 considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution, which I will now read. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the limitation of civil rights. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is extremely concerned about the actions of public authorities aimed at undermining the principles of the rule of law guaranteed in the Constitution and the worldly neutral nature of our state. These actions led to the biggest speeches and demonstrations of Poles and Poles for many years. The position of the political Constitutional Tribunal violates the dignity of women, deprives them of their freedom of choice and the right to health protection and exposes them to inhuman treatment and torture. It should be noted that this position has been expressed with the participation of unauthorised persons, which makes it legally non-existent. Violation of social peace by receiving part of the citizens of the Republic of Poland .. women.. Their rights must be strongly opposed. Such a position should be seen as a provocation and an attempt on the life and health of Poles and Poles, who have been demonstrating women's rights on the streets of our country for several days. No circumstances, especially the present time and limitations associated with the pandemic, should be a pretext for systemic changes that violate the rule of law and the worldview neutrality of our country. Discussions and settlements on fundamental issues should be open, while maintaining the full capacity both to express their views and to manifest their citizenship. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few more words about the committee's deliberations. The discussions at the meeting of the Joint Committees raised above all the issues of the position of the Constitutional Tribunal and its nature. Most senators voted in favour of this not being a judgment. The argument on the unlawful formation of the judge, that is to say, to take part in the judgment of the persons appointed to the judicial positions already held, is in favour of this. The next argument is that the formation of the court was chaired by Judge Julia Przyłębska appointed President of the Constitutional Tribunal in a manner contrary to the provisions of the Law which was enforced by Law and Justice in the Sejm. This law was also violated when the President was elected. The next issue is the present position of the Sejm. This was not a position that was approved by the Parliamentary Legislative Commission. I will remind you that the Legislative Commission has not adopted a resolution approving, has not adopted this position. There was a balance of votes in this case, and yet on 19 October, Marshal Witek sent a letter with the position of the Sejm. The last argument that this is not a judgment is that there was a judge Krystyna Pawłowicz, who was personally involved in the case of the application. She signed the first such application to the Constitutional Court. Why did the PiS Members start a dispute by not allowing the debate in Parliament? That's the question that's been asking all along. On this issue, the bill should be submitted, it should be voted in the Sejm, after the debate and then it should be addressed to the Senate and to the President. This is the case in the ordinary legislative process. Instead, a group of Members hid behind the back of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and handled a very political matter with their hands. The process by the Constitutional Tribunal on such a fundamental issue at such a difficult time, when the government imposes further restrictions on citizens in the fight against the koravirus, can be read as a deliberate action, a deliberate choice of date. And unfortunately, that's how it was read by society. The context of this position is purely political. That is why protests were provoked, the scale of which is huge, massive, protests involving residents and residents of not only large cities, but also small towns, towns and villages. They weren't so massive when it was just about violating the rule of law in the last five years. Protests are massive precisely because people are imposed on solutions resulting from a certain world view and imposed on them through legislation. Of course, there were also arguments that this is an attack on the Church. This is not an attack on the Church. People who protest on the streets obviously resent the Church, because it is the Catholic Church, institutional, becoming a friend of only one political option, broke the existing pact for many, many years about the so-called. A friendly chapter with you. Today, such demands as tolerance, equal rights, a secular state, i.e. normal demands, characteristic in a European country, are for the right hand provoking anti-church slogans. And it must be made clear that this dispute is not an abortion dispute. This is a dispute about our country's physical character. That is why it was decided in the committee to put the draft of this glory to the vote in the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u119	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicant. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized you to represent Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. I see... [[Senator Bierecki was the first to ask a question.]] Good. Senator Bierecki came forward first. There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u120	Thank you very much. I have a question about the content of this proposed resolution itself. In the speech I sign up for, I will refer to the very idea of a resolution and the consequences that... [[Senator, speak closer to the microphone because we can't hear you very well. Thank you.]] I have a question about content. It seems to me that the content of this resolution is far ill-considered and unfortunate. I would like to ask the senator what principles of the rule of law are guaranteed in the Constitution. I'm talking about the first paragraph of this resolution. It undermines the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's the first question. The second question concerns the third paragraph of that resolution. I would like to know how the ban on eugenic abortion is an attempt on the lives of Poles and Poles. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer my questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm telling you. There are many articles in the Constitution, but above all there is an article. 53 on freedom of conscience and religion. This freedom of conscience and religion is certainly violated here, especially in relation to those who do not share faith in God or the Catholic world view. But the principles of the rule of law are primarily violated in such a way that it is not in our view the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is the position of the institution which has been held in the last five years by the governing party of the politician, the institution in which the people have already been elected and the properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot sit in this Court because they have not been taken away from them by a promise. And that is the first-born sin when it comes to the fact that this position violates the rule of law. As for the Senator's second question, I would first like to correct a certain violation that has taken place in our public debate for many, many years. It's not a eugenic abortion, there's no such thing. Eugenics has been called for many years... Since the detection of the composition DNA is considered pseudoscience. There's no such thing. I know why this concept works in the public opinion. It is precisely because this pseudoscience tried at various times of history, which we know, to produce in quotes a perfect man. What qualities he was supposed to have, it's... it's been tried. And because eugenics, this pseudoscience of eugenics, are associated with those worst things, the environments that support the total ban on abortion, have introduced this concept into the language of public debate. This is an abortion for embryopathological reasons, i.e. incurable, irreversible fetal defects, very often fatal defects. Why does this ban affect the health and life of Poles? Yeah, for all kinds of reasons. You could divide these causes into two groups. The first concerns women who are in the following situation. After prenatal studies, it turns out that the fetus they carry is burdened with an embryopathological defect, often with a fatal defect. Edwards' syndrome might be an example of that. Sometimes these fetuses are brainless, without all kinds of vital parts. A woman who gets this information, in a situation of abortion bans, must bear, wait for such a fetus to be born, and then look at the death of this fetus in great agony. These situations have been described. This, of course, affects women's health, affects their mental health and physical health. But one more thing is important here. There are many people who heal from infertility, use different methods to conceive and have a child. In a situation where the fetus is burdened with such a flaw, and a woman must inform it, give birth and then wait... Sometimes there's a C-section, but there are different situations. It reduces her chances of having another baby in the future. There is one more thing I would like to say very strongly. Abortion is not a means to prevent pregnancy, as is often attempted in public debate. Abortion in such situations is performed in women who want to have children. But women have the right to choose whether this child will be... or will give birth to a child capable of life, capable of functioning. A woman has a right to choose because she's a woman, a mother, who knows best what's right. And no law-giver, no man has to tell a woman, a mother, whether she's having a baby or not. I say again: this mostly applies to women who want children to have which children they want to have.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u122	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. I read the constitution, and nowhere in the Constitution did I see a provision that would give the Senate the power to rule whether the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is legally existing or not. Therefore, I believe that we cannot accept such a provision in the resolution because this would violate the three divisions of power and the legislative authority would reserve the right to interfere in the powers of the judiciary. And I'm surprised the senator, who's a lawyer, proposes that. That's my first question. And the other. Listening to what your marshal said... Are children with Down syndrome unable to live? And how are they supposed to feel during our debate when they're debating about demanding the right to exterminate them so they don't say directly: killing them? After all, they feel the same way, have feelings, analyze this reality. How are they supposed to feel? And how do these women's rights have the right to a separate being, what is the child in the womb? Because it cannot be that one freedom is realized at the expense of another person's freedom and life. There were systems that did this, but I don't want to do historical analogies here anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u124	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u125	Thank you so much for asking. Mr. Senator, the Senate doesn't rule on existence or non-existence. The Senate states what everyone knows and what others know. Made people protest today. People today have gone out into the streets, actually already protesting everything that's happened in the last five years. And as I said at the end of the explanatory memorandum: this is no longer a discussion about abortion, but it is a discussion about the system of our country. That the Constitutional Tribunal and the Court in this composition I, of course, take quotes. He makes such decisions at such a time... This issue has been in the Court for three years and no one has taken care of it. And at a time when the government introduces restrictions, the Court deals with this issue, which causes massive, massive social protests. And the Senate, as one of the Houses of Parliament, has a duty to respond, to calm people down, to perhaps initiate a solution. But I'm sure he also has an obligation to show what his position on this matter is. In the Seym, as the senator knows perfectly well, that's impossible. In the Senate, as the House of Reflection, it is possible and the Senate should exercise this right as much as possible. As for the second question, you, Mr. Senator, know perfectly well as a happy father of five children, you know perfectly well... [[Voice from the room: Six.]] Yeah, six. [[Voice from the hall: And daughters.]] And also the daughters. You know perfectly well, if you're lucky to have healthy children. I was lucky too. That in terms of the percentage of abortion due to Down's syndrome itself among those abortions that were legally performed in Poland, this is only 20%. The rest are abortions due to Down syndrome along with concomitant diseases. And that makes it... well, then it's not so fun and fun anymore. And besides, Mr. Senator, no one can be the conscience of another man. And that's probably... that's the biggest message of Christianity. Every man has reason and free will. If man is a believer and believes in God, he also believes that God will one day account for him. But why should God's truth be included in the Penal Code? Well, that's beyond comprehension. And at the end of the answer to the senator's question, I would mention what Father Wiśniewski said about the country which creates such a law. Father Wiśniewski said that if this was about genuine, real helping people with disabilities who are born, first of all, parents of these people would have the right to normal pay. Because you know perfectly well that they can't work because they take care of people with disabilities 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. This is the first case, I mean. Then the state would have done something about it. It didn't do anything. Secondly, the state of such parents who spend their entire lives caring for people with disabilities should guarantee a pension of an average pension. And, of course, this remuneration should also be in the amount of the average salary. And the third argument of Father Wiśniewski, I remind you that in such a situation the whole process of treatment, rehabilitation of people with disabilities should be free and available. And only then could the state think about other steps. And we have the opposite of what's going on. I, Mr. Senator, personally took part in the campaign to collect PLN 5 million to help a child who was born with such flaws that most likely without this treatment And he's a couple of years old. He's just gonna die. And the parents... No one is the conscience of another man. Parents... a mother who learns that her fetus is burdened with such flaws has the right to choose because this choice also determines her future life, her husband's life, her whole family's life, other children. And one more thing. I know a lot of people, mothers who say, "What if I die?" Who's gonna take care of it? That's why we don't talk about it... nobody tells anyone to remove the pregnancy. We are talking about the fact that a woman, when making a decision, must have a full right to choose, full right to decide whether or not she will give birth. And the state should guarantee her the possibility of having a legal abortion. [[Mr. Marshal, the question is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u126	Mr. Senator, but first things first... [[Voice from the room: One at a time.]] [[But the question, the question...]] I'll put you on the list. I've already signed you up. [[I didn't get the answers to my question, the fundamentals he has for this...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u127	I asked you the marshal very clearly. There is the right of women, of course, and there is the right of a child to live. Because a child is a legal subject. Even the Ombudsman Act... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: No, the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, Mr. Senator.]] Excuse me, the Ombudsperson's bill states that the child is a person from conception to the age of eighteen. You didn't answer my question. I understand the various extreme situations of life, of course with full respect and pain of solidarity with those who have very painful experiences in this area, and I also know something about it personally. But I would like to point out that the fundamental issue in this discussion is the right to life of another person. You quoted Wiśniewski's father, and today St Francis's Father at the general audience said this: "On October 22, we celebrated the liturgical memory of St. John Paul II, the year of his 100th birthday. He has always called for special love for the last and the helpless, and I stress that every human life from conception to natural death. I think that for believers, the indication of the Holy Father Francis... [[For believers, yes.]] ...with all due respect to Father Wiśniewski, he has a completely different rank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u128	Senator, I will tell you right away that I completely agree with you in the fact that for believers the position of John Paul II can be a determinant of their entire life. And I have absolutely no doubt about it. This is for believers and those who share these views. But those who believe in their world view can't hold a criminal code. How will we then differ from those societies that want to introduce laws that we do not agree to? But I'll answer that question you asked me. The Ombudsperson of Children's Rights Act, as I recall, seems to have been passed by the state, in this form... [[It was passed in 2000, also by Marshal Borusewicz, who was then a Member of...]] [[Mr. Senator, please...]] Anyway... I used a wide-ranging qualifier on the right side of the room. But I'm going somewhere else. If there's a pregnant woman, does getting pregnant deprive a woman of her right to decide about herself? Does getting pregnant cause a collision with this... Is it because a woman is pregnant, deprives her of her rights, deprives her of her right to protect her health, her life, her dignity? No. In such situations, the law should not criminalise, prohibit legal abortion, i.e. a woman's decision. I repeat, no one who is zealously Catholic has to have an abortion, no one who is zealously Catholic has to use contraception. Nobody. She can follow the orders of John Paul II and any other Pope, priest. But this concerns a woman of faith. And in this society there are not only believers, there are also people who do not share this faith, and it is difficult to require them to adopt the Catholic system in their criminal law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Brejza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, thank you so much for those words about the Church. I too am so convinced that no one has done such damage to the Church as the politicians of PiS and the Court themselves have caused this war. I would like to ask you, Marshal: do the restrictive solutions introduced now mean that Poles will be in a worse legal situation than Iranian citizens? Is it true that Iran has a more liberal right than Poland? And the question is: will Poland be one of the most restrictive systems of abortion legislation in Europe? And are we moving towards countries such as Algeria, Afghanistan and Niger through these solutions? Finally, I'd like to ask. Even though I know that events are now evolving from hour to hour Is it true that in recent days an internal security officer has attacked women demonstrating in the transition. How do you assess this situation as an applicant for this resolution?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u131	Thank you. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, let me say this: Iran has a more liberal right in this respect than Poland, I know, it has been given many times. In fact, in making such a law, we are going towards... I believe that we are moving towards a complete ban on abortion, and in various other cases, as the so-called ones have already said. The life defenders led by Kaja Godek, who claimed that she would now apply for another condition from the 1993 Act, namely rape, also to be declared incompatible with the Constitution. I'm sure that leads to a total ban on abortion. I don't know exactly about this I.A. officer, but the fact is that what's happening on the street... I can answer in this way: I took two walks like this and compared these walks in two quite large cities. One walk took on Saturday in Katowice. There were police officers standing on the steps of the cathedral, and a crowd of young, mostly young people... I am paying attention to this, gentlemen, that this is a young generation, this is a young generation. Of course, the comparison to the situation in Belarus may not be adequate, but as far as the generation is concerned, yes. Just as the young generation questioned the power of Lukashenka, so here it is the new generation, the young people who figured out what laws they already have today want to take away from them. And they went out into the street very spontaneously. I'm going back to what happened in Katowice. When the crowd in masks, keeping the right distance, of course, passed from the cathedral Behind the cathedral is the entrance to the curia I saw with my own eyes how armed policemen ran to terrace the entrance to the curia, which absolutely no one intended to enter. And people just all the time That's how they went. It wasn't until somebody yelled "Gaz!" that people started to scramble and started to be less pleasant. And now I'm comparing what happened on Sunday in Tychy. It's a very big city and there was also a few thousand crowd. The police weren't even there. The police stood only in places where the crowd would enter the street, regulate traffic and stop cars, but around the crowd, around churches, where the crowd gathered, there was not a single policeman. And there was absolutely no incident there. And that's proof that these people are just trying to demonstrate something by going out on the street, walking down the street. They're not absolutely aggressive, they don't have any aggression. They simply want to show that they do not have their consent to change this country's physical character and to change this law. But to answer your questions, I'm gonna say it's police action, that's the way it is. - No, I don't understand why the police with the shields were there. They make this crowd get nervous, that's why. There are no leaders there, there are just young people out on the street. I myself in Katowice did this demonstration, this walk I solved because I saw that after 3 hours of walking these young people did not know how to end it, because there are no leaders there. When they were told to go home, they just went home. So this escalation, unfortunately, this escalation and turning it into some kind of aggressive issue unfortunately came from the other side. And I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u133	Thank you. You're gonna ask Senator Czerwinski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was going to ask a question about the text of the proposed resolution, but perhaps I will refer to it later in my speech. Now I'd like to ask you what you just said. The first statement was that the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment prohibited decisions on the life and health of a woman. I don't know if I quote exactly. I have here the text of the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, the protection of the human foetus and the admissibility of abortion. Art. Article 4a (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 2 was examined, and I'll quote the mouth. 1 point 1: The abortion may only be carried out by a doctor where: pregnancy poses a risk to the life or health of a pregnant woman... Why didn't you read the bill in public or didn't you know that? The second question is what you just said here. In describing the events which also gave rise to the wording of this resolution, you stated clearly that this was not an attack on the Church... I don't know whether it's big or small. Ma'am, if the Church is desecrating herself by wearing painted and temporary texts that are not suitable for quoting, if she is trying to break up, break up Holy Mass, then what is this attack for? So please make it concrete: what are these two actions attacking? Well, except they're expressions of expression, but that's another matter. And now, as far as maybe more basic issues are concerned, which is... you've often said about the system that these are systemic changes. Such a phrase is also in the text of the resolution. True, the constitution contains several large blocks in its text. One of them is the preamble, which is in general: how to read the constitution. The second is civil rights and freedoms. The third is the system, generally speaking. And it's the same in our constitution. Please tell me how this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has been formulated recently, perhaps not yet published, affects the state's system, the interaction between authorities, between citizens and authorities, in the way these authorities are identified, on the sources of law. These are basic issues of the system. How does this sentence change the state? Well, maybe that's it. The first three questions. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u135	Wait a minute, Senator, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we are discussing here and there are different opinions. You can't call opinions other than those you have a lie. [[Why not?]] [[But if they're missing the facts...]] I draw your attention. Please don't do this. [[If they're missing the facts, then you can...]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: It's me...]] Please don't do this. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, I will answer to the senator.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u136	I'll answer the senator. Of course, it's an abuse by the senator. I also regret it very much because I always have a very nice discussion with the senator. Why... Didn't I read it? I read it very well. It's just that this threat to a woman's life or health... If you look at the case law, on all issues relating to the provision of benefits of this type, you can easily see that when there is a direct threat to the life and health of a woman, that condition applies. And the condition here referred to refers to the fetus, its inability to function, to severe and irreversible defects. But, Mr. Senator, And you know that very well. The fact that a woman in one month of pregnancy will find out that she's having a baby in five months and then she's gonna watch this baby die for two days... For a woman, not only young, for every woman, the awareness that in this particular case she is actually a coffin, not a carrier of life, has an enormous impact on mental health. Health effects mentally also that she will look at this suffering. And in this context... Anyway, I was talking about it in the explanatory memorandum, and I hope the senator was listening. I was talking about the fact that when women try to have a baby for a very long time and suddenly it turns out... A woman like that is about a century old, after a lot of rehearsals, after a lot of miscarriages. Sometimes that's the situation. And if she has to give birth to a baby that's gonna die, that's the time, that's the extra burden... Because pregnancy is a physiological condition, but it's also a burden on a woman's health, a very large one. For some women even more than others, because this is an individual issue. Then it also destroys her chances of another healthy pregnancy in the future. This is the case, Mr. Senator. About the other thing... This is not an attack on the Church. Yeah, I said it wasn't an attack on the church. This is, unfortunately, a reaction to the fact that the Church broke this pact about a friendly chapter with the state. The Church has spoken on one political side, and it shows it in a very clear way all the time. I'll give you some examples. Ex-priest, Mr. Miedlar... Well, somebody once allowed him to be ordained. The same priest Miedlar in April 2016 in the church in Bialystok, where the men of ONR stood with the flags, shouting slogans that I was not even allowed to quote. Anti-Semitic, nationalist passwords. Minister Emilewicz spoke from the pulpit in the election campaign in Częstochowa. Archbishop Hunger at some point spoke of the demon of progress and modernity, which causes great desolation. I'm not talking about election campaigns in churches anymore. Well, even my opponent, from your formation, led his campaign from an pulpit, performing after Mass. Isn't that desecration? I said, what is desecration? Is it desecration that distraught women enter the church and show some poster? I'm telling you, I wouldn't do something like that myself. I don't approve of entering the church during Mass, but I understand the uproar, I understand the powerlessness, I understand the anger of the powerless, who see that the state has weapons and does what it wants. The church, which took public space itself and allowed politicians to enter its doors, is unfortunately paying such a price today. Society is just pissed off at the Church, so to speak, and very carefully. Mr. Senator, there's one more thing that proves that this is not an attack on the Church. Yesterday, young people demonstrated in front of the church in Katowice. The priest went out and said, "But I don't like PiS either." And there was applause, and the youth wasn't aggressive. [[Why don't you...]] Mr. Senator, I just... This is not an attack on the Church. Unfortunately, the same protest after this position of the Court turned into a protest against everything. All I can do is use the proverb: whoever's sowing the wind, he's picking up the storm. I'm sorry about that. I will say this here straight away: I am a believer, but the institution of the Catholic Church has for many, many years absolutely failed to meet my expectations, expectations which could be set up by an institution that is to build a community. But this is not a discussion. When it comes to the system, let us remember worldview neutrality. We really need to have This is due to a number of provisions of our constitution The guarantee of world view neutrality. This worldview neutrality has been disturbed for many, many years. Personally, I believe that many, many governments in previous years have contributed to this, when there has been no direct response to the fact that certain issues related to sacrum and profane are no longer being distributed. Let me remind you, Mr. Senator, it's not anyone else, it's Mrs. Maria Kaczyńska, sleep. Maria Kaczyńska, became the object of the priest's attacks Well, I don't know if Father Tadeusz Rydzyk, who called her a witch, said he should be euthanized. At the time, I was terribly outraged by the fact that priests only allowed such statements because she was defending women, defending abortion in the situations we are talking about to be legally permitted. I remind you that it was at that time that the proposal to tighten up abortion law, which Mrs Maria Kaczyńska, who I have always had very deep respect for, was submitted to, was opposed. Her husband, the president, was also on the side of making sure that the bill wasn't tightened up. I'm not talking about situations like this anymore when Archbishop Hoser threatened parliamentarians with excommunication, which was in 2014. The fact that they had adopted records to allow in vitro fertilization, and in fact they were trying to regulate this issue, because in vitro fertilization was functioning, but it was not regulated in the legislation. The regulation, as it was emphasized at the time, led to the fact that there should be no free American woman here, so that there should be rules, some rules. By establishing this right, the State has defined those rules by implementing that law. It was then that parliamentarians were threatened, and also to President Komorowski. I am no longer talking about the fact that the Minister of Culture of his time withdrew the grant to the Festival 'Malta' due to the incorrect views of the organizers. I am no longer talking about the fact that in the autumn of 2016, when posters with the slogan were hung in Poland, let us give ourselves a sign of peace, a joint action of lay Catholics and LGBT organizations, and patronized it by the "Powszechny Tygodnik," the episcopate claimed that Catholics should not participate in this. I am no longer talking about the fact that in 2016, when the opposition protested against the rule of law violations, Archbishop Michalik spoke of it as a new marketplace. I'm not talking about the systemic coverage of pedophilia in the Church anymore. I'm not talking about financial scandals with priest Rydzyk in the background anymore. It wasn't the opposition, and it wasn't the people who ruined the sacrum and the profanum, the constitutional balance. This was done by the governments of individual parties. And maybe everyone should hit their chests. But all that has been growing for many, many years, social dissatisfaction, anxiety, all this has led to today... It was that glow that made people go out into the streets. And we should do something now so that we don't have any worse effects. We as Senate have to respond to that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u137	Thank you, Senator. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd like a warm correction...]] But, Senator, your name has not been invoked. I put you in line for the vote. And now you're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, I have two questions and I will ask for simple answers, such as the facts, because you are accusing the law and justice community, among others. the fact that it referred the abortion project to the Constitutional Tribunal. I'd like to ask two simple questions. First question: who was the initiator of changes in abortion law? Who brought this bill to the Sejm? And the second question is, who, besides the Members of Law and Justice, was the applicant for the Constitutional Tribunal? What parliamentary clubs?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u139	I can't answer those questions. I don't understand the first question: who was...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u140	Say it again, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u141	Who brought the bill to the Sejm? [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Which bill?]] The Act on Changes in Abort Law. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Which bill?]] The one that was referred to the Court. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: But to the Court...]] [[The one from 1993.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: The one from the nineties of the third year?]] [[She's been referred to the Court, and that's what she's asking...]] No, no... Yeah, because you're asking... No, the one from 2018. [[It was two laws, Mr. Senator.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: But there were 2 laws.]] Yeah, but I'm talking about... [[At least two laws.]] Good. Well, I'll ask if you can't answer the first question, the answer to the second question. Who, apart from the Members of the Law and Justice, has brought to the Constitutional Court... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I don't know....]] I was talking about it at the committee meeting. You're the rapporteur. Of course, they were members of the club... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: PSL.]] ...PSL, Kukiz and the Confederation... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I don't know exactly...]] But I understand that... well, you're here as an applicant, along with Marshal Michael Kaminski, whose colleagues at the PSL Parliamentary Club referred this motion to the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u142	Yeah, except I just can't answer, name names...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u143	Good. There's a question. There's an answer. You can't name names. Senator Necessary, please. Senator Necessary! [[Good morning. Can you hear me?]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Yes, you can hear the senator.]] Yes. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u144	Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I have such questions. The first question is whether the justification of the Constitutional Court, which we heard in the course of the reading of the judgment... If it were for rape pregnancies, could it be quoted the same way? So here I'm not talking about what the Court was doing, I'm talking about justification. In your opinion, can this justification be used in the same way on this second condition? And doesn't that just predict the elimination of the second condition? 'Cause that's what it sounded like. But I'm not a lawyer, and I'd like to hear your Marshal's opinion. And my second question is whether, in your opinion, the marshal, from the legal point of view, is the condition which is being removed, i.e. serious foetal damage occurring with high probability should not be linked to the first condition, i.e. the risk to the life and health of a woman? Because these pregnancies pose a risk to the life and health of a woman, only at different stages. And what it's gonna look like legally when we eliminate one condition... We know that pregnancy is a potential threat... that further development of this pregnancy is a potential threat to the health and life of the mother, because these pregnancies often die in the third trimester, which can cause a risk to the life of the mother under the influence of various changes that occur in the body, including. coagulation disorders, sepsis or other events, or the need for sudden cutting, etc., etc. And didn't those conditions exist together? And now we're splitting them up. Is it legally possible... Isn't there going to be a legal conflict here that doctors will simply be subject to, because they're going to have to give up action in a sense, you can say, in the protection of the mother's health? Because the threat is very likely to occur later. Now these pregnancies are scheduled and therefore we do not see their impact on later stages of pregnancy and the health of women, but these things will definitely occur in statistics. And would it be possible to separate these two conditions? And what does it look like from the legal side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u145	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u146	Thank you very much. I answer the first question: yes, this justification can in principle also be applied to this second condition, because this is how it was passed on. And to answer the second question... Of course it all depends on interpretation. There are some things that can be interpreted, and that can be linked to the danger to the life and health of a woman, but I, as a lawyer, who has dealt with medical law and such things for many years, know that doctors will be afraid. Already now, when there were all 3 grounds for legal abortion, there were entire voivodships in which legal abortions were not performed, for various reasons. Partly because of the clause of conscience, also understood, because the institution does not have a clause of conscience, the clause of conscience belongs only to a specific person, and if one doctor uses the clause of conscience, it should be another doctor who will perform the given medical witness. Nevertheless, the doctors were also afraid, and today they will fear even more. Even in a situation where it hasn't been published yet, the women who are in the wards are about a week pregnant and waiting for a deadline... I've known cases like this before. The fetus has no brain, and it is known that it will either die in the mother's body or be born unable to live. And the doctors are already telling these patients they're not gonna do that benefit. I just remind you one more thing: in Poland legal abortion can only be done in a public hospital. You can't legally remove pregnancy in a private hospital, in a private clinic or in a private doctor. If it is to be legal, it must be done in a public unit. I'll tell you what this has led to. This has led to the fact that the problem raised mainly concerns this part of society... the part of women that are inefficient. The part of society that has very high pay... These women have access to a gynecologist, they have access to contraception, and in situations where there is such a condition, they will go abroad, to one of the neighbouring countries, to our neighbors, and there they will have an abortion. Women in small towns, women in the countryside don't have that possibility. There is no access to gynecological clinics at all. For the 1st gynecological clinic in some localities, the senators are from different districts and they should know that sometimes there are 20,000 patients. Sometimes a woman has to go to a gynecology clinic 18, 20, 30 km. In some villages or small towns there is one pharmacy, and in it there is an apothecary who refers to a clause of conscience. I repeat once again: if people are religious, listen to religious commands, listen to the instructions of their Church, they do not have to do this. I repeat once again that I have no objection to the Church saying that Catholics should not remove pregnancy. I resent the fact that he's trying to put it in the criminal code in different ways. That's what this is about. That's what freedom is all about. And this is a matter of the worldview that we cannot impose our worldview on the general public. Poland has been diverse worldwide for many centuries. Who cares? [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u147	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Bierecki a question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am very pleased that you are holding this part of the sitting, because I would like to ask the rapporteur a question which also relates to the possible actions taken by your marshal. Art. 85a The Senate's Rules of Procedure states that the Marshal of the Senate directs the ruling of the Court... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[We've lost the sound. We can't hear you, Senator. The word "tribunal" was the last word we heard.]] We'll try it now. Better? [[It's okay now.]] Thank you very much. Art. 85a The Senate's Rules of Procedure states that the Senate Marshal directs the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on the non-compliance of the law or part of it to the Legislative Commission by ordering it to examine the need for legislative action in this regard. We are currently debating a political statement which would be appropriate for the political club, the parliamentary club, and not for the Senate as an institution which, after all, is obliged by law, including its own rules, to take action relating to the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. The question to the rapporteur is this: has the committee not considered refraining from adopting this unfortunate resolution and asking the Marshal of the Senate to refer this ruling to the Court immediately after its publication to work in the Legislative Committee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u149	Before your marshal responds, I'll inform the senator that there was a statement by the Civic Coalition Club on a similar matter on Monday. This was a joint statement by Members and Senators and Members and Senators. You're absolutely right, sir, that once the ruling is published and he's on that path that the senator mentioned... In addition, I will inform you that I have asked the Marshal's team to assess the constitutionality of legal acts to give you an in-depth legal opinion on what can be done next with this act. So much for information at what stage We're here right now. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u150	I can only say that the committee That's what you basically said to the marshal. She didn't do it. There's one more thing. There's no guarantee at all if it's published and it's known... if there's even a Senate role at all. It was said that this provision would not be applicable at the time of publication.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Orzechowska, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u152	Hello, everyone. Can you hear me? Mr. Marshal, can you hear me? [[I can hear you, I can hear you.]] Good. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the senator of the rapporteur. How does this debate today have to do with the fact that in 2016, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz in the Sejm stated, in the context of other decisions of the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment is universally applicable, is final and that no constitutional authority or office has the right to challenge the judgment of the Constitutional Court? That's the first question. My second question is about life. It's the so-called. Eugenic abortion. Was there any discussion regarding whether the child was alive at the time of the abortion or not? Because that's when two different things come into play. And the third question. The death penalty was abolished in Polish law. How does the right to kill a child end the death penalty? Here the mother and the doctor who perform abortions has a strong advantage, the child at the time of killing has no defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u153	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm answering the first question. With all due respect, the statements made by any Member, including Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, are not legally binding on the Senate. I know exactly what you're asking. In 2015 or 2016, the Constitutional Tribunal was duly filled, presided over by Prof. Rzepliński, who was properly elected President of the Court, and the judges who had been elected to posts were not allowed to adjudicate. Consequently, the judgments which were issued at that time by the Constitutional Tribunal were valid for erga omnes. And that's probably what the senator was talking about, despite the kind of question he put. And as for the second and third questions, I'll tell the senator one thing. The senator has the view that he has been a man since conception, although this view is neither unambiguous nor uniform. Science hasn't determined when it's gonna start. That's enough. I don't know if you're... The senator's a doctor, so I'm sure he knows that law enforcement during childbirth, with severe bodily damage... We've been talking about putting the baby in danger since she was born. The damage to the fetus in the womb is completely different. Of course, the senator has the right to his view, but once again I say: science does not make it clear. I highly recommend your habilitation work to Prof. Barbara Chyrowicz, who is the head of the Department of Ethics at KUL and is a clergyman. Especially on the right side of the room I recommend you check how she speaks about choice and the right to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u155	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first point is the corrigendum I wanted to quote earlier. In answer to my previous question, your marshal asked me that Father Director Tadeusz Rydzyk said he was asleep. Madam President Maria Kaczyńska... There's a phrase you gave me. Yes? I don't want to repeat it because it's, ma'am, fake news, it never happened. That was the statement, but it did not refer to the president, but to one of her hosts, at her invitation, a well-known journalist. Check with the source. This is repeated quite often and unfortunately causes that the other things you present have little credibility. Now two questions. The first question is this. In the text of the resolution you state the state You're also a representative of the applicants. The Court's judgment is legally non-existent. Please tell me whether in the Polish legal system, which describes among others. Constitution... What authority states that there is no legal existence of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? And second question. Please listen carefully, this is the text of the resolution, disregarding some unnecessary words, namely the second sentence in the third paragraph. To issue such a position... Here we refer to the judgment of the Court, the judgment, but the wording of the position is used. The issue of such a position should be seen as an attempt on the lives of Poles and Poles who have been demonstrating for several days on the streets of our country. I need you to link it to me for cause and effect. How does the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal or, as you wish, the position of the Polish and Polish people is a direct assassination of the lives of Poles who are now demonstrating? What's the causal link here? How can such an attempt be carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u157	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal point?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u158	That question has already been asked and your marshal has already answered that question. If we're gonna hold a discussion, if they're gonna ask the same questions... I'm gonna look into it for some purposeful, unnecessary extension. [[Is this a motion to waive the question or to draw Mr. Senator's attention?]] Well, the question has already been asked, so I'm guessing your marshal will repeat the answer. The point is that the next such questions should be lifted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u159	As I understand it, Senator Czerwinski won't be offended if your marshal answers something like, I've already answered that question. Yes? [[I don't know if that was the question. I'd ask for an answer, I'm sure I'll remember.]] There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u160	Dear Senator, These two issues were discussed both during the committee meeting and here. There's a question here, too. I'm referring to your second question now. The law knows the concept of a non-existent sentence. There are indications in every code, every procedure that says when a sentence simply doesn't exist. Of course, in today's situation, when we don't have a properly filled Constitutional Court, it's difficult to say, but generally if something doesn't exist, it just doesn't exist. This is the wedge in which our country has been driven by this very joyful reform of the entire justice system since 2015, from the Constitutional Tribunal to the Supreme Court. It's just that if it gets so confusing, if you put in rules that you don't follow on your own... Because even the question of choosing Mrs. Julia Przyłębska... After all, it was this power, this Sejm, the majority of the Sejm, which was in 2015, that passed the law, and then something was done quite contrary to the provisions of this law, which was passed. I don't tell you how many times this bill has been amended. This is a wedge, Mr. Senator. And as a lawyer, I really regret it. As far as the second question is concerned, actually We've already talked about this. This issue was three years old in the Court of Justice. We know that Mrs Przyłębska, by the way, we know not only from some reports, but also from the judges themselves, who are ruling in this Court, and who are already elected by the current parliamentary majority, manipulates not only the assemblies, but also the dates and cases when the case is to be dealt with. After all, it is not necessary to be a great politician and anticipating Wernyhora, to know that if there was no political decision, then on that day of that judgment, that judgment, that position would simply not be there. This happened in a situation where a few days earlier the government introduced restrictions on the coronavirus. And you couldn't assume that people, especially young people 'Cause first of all, let's be honest with ourselves that this doesn't apply to us anymore, but it does apply to young people, citizens of our country. They're not just going out on the streets. They go out into the streets, put their health at risk, some of them put their lives on the line. They are fully aware of it. Of course, I haven't seen such a disciplined society in the last few months as on these walks. These people really wear masks, these people eat they wear properly, these people don't touch each other, they move away from each other, they try to keep their distance. But they went out on the streets. Then what, Mr. Senator, would you call it a different word if it wasn't a provocation? It's a provocation to get people out into the streets. Maybe I've heard that phrase before. This is done precisely because if there is such a galloping wave of infections, it will be possible to use an easy excuse in a moment that this pandemic has gone crazy just because people have gone out into the streets. But it's a vicious circle. [[Something's wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u161	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that I will strictly follow the rules of questioning within a minute. I also ask your marshal to stick to the questions. Right now... Previously, you were mistakenly overlooked by Marshal Kaminski, and now he's asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the charge of lying here, I have a question for your marshal. Who's the author of the words... I quote in favour of the recording from the weekly "Wprost" is the tapes of the week "Wprost" which published the tapes on which Mateusz Morawiecki e.g. He mocked clients of his own bank, but also tapes of politicians of the Civic Platform. And on the tapes from this weekly, the politicians of PiS have repeatedly called themselves. Well, Mrs. Marshal, at whose address did Mr. Tadeusz Rydzyk send the words recorded and published in the weekly: "Mrs. President with such euthanasia?" You witch! I'll give it to you! If you kill people, you're the first one. Mrs. Marshal, did Mr. Tadeusz Rydzyk address these words to Mary Kaczyńska's holy memory or to another president?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u163	He addressed them during a lecture in Toruń, at his school, at the address of the sleeper. Madam President Maria Kaczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u164	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question. You're getting ready for Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u165	Mrs. Marshal, today we hear voices that protests during the pandemic are wrong, that protests in connection with the Constitutional Court's position on abortion should not be organised at that time. Hence my question: is it true that the time limit for the meeting of the Constitutional Tribunal is set by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, not by the opposition in the Sejm and not by the people who are protesting in the streets today, or by anyone else?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u166	Yes, the time limits shall be fixed by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Komorowski was also mistakenly omitted, so he will now ask a question. You're getting ready for Senator Brejza. Remotely. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u168	I have three questions... Maybe while I'm asking questions, I'll take it off. I have three questions. [[What a minute.]] One minute. Why is the Senator rapporteur responsible for the Constitutional Court's judgment on the Catholic Church? From what point in your opinion, Senator rapporteur, can we talk about a human being? Is he human from conception or... From what point do you think? And answer me one more question: what provision of the Constitution permits legal deprivation of life?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u169	Thank you very much. You're responding to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u170	The Catholic Church is responsible for the whole society, because the Catholic Church is institutional Catholic Church in Poland He repeatedly sought to prevent abortion, even in these cases, and the Episcopate... I think the oil in the fire added it. And that's why these people are so determined and they're also turning their anger towards the Church. That the Episcopate was pleased that such a sentence had passed. That's the first question. Second, since a man... I won't be smarter than many professors of biology, ethics and medicine, and I won't talk about it because these concepts are different. So much for the second question. And the third question. Removing a pregnancy isn't killing a man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u171	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Brejza a question. Senator Swede is on his way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, is it true that the prosecutor's office was presented in person, addressed, signed under this fundamentalist motion by Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro? How do you feel about such a strong ideology of the prosecution? Is it true? Taking into account the history of Poland That these current protests in many small towns, towns and cities are the widest statements of Polish citizens, Poles and Poles, against power? That they are mass appearances that they have not yet had such character in Poland? Finally: is it true that this situation, which the applicants and de facto PiS have brought about, is the deepest division among Poles for decades?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u173	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, of course the prosecutor's office has been ideologicalized for some time now, and we know exactly what position you are taking, and at the same time the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro. I'm not gonna answer that question that I saw 'cause I didn't see who signed off, but I read... I don't remember if it was Zbigniew Ziobra's signature. All I remember is that under the position of the Sejm was the signature of Marshal Witek. And I checked it because your marshal was absent from the Sejm at the time, and the position is from October 19th and is signed by Marshal Witek, which surprised me. And that's what I've noticed. Yes, protests are the strongest in many, many years. I haven't seen such a huge scale of protest in the 1980s. I saw, I participated in protests against the destruction of justice in the years 2015 and 2019, and these protests did not have such a scale either. Worst or best... the worst thing about this situation is that so many people are demonstrating during a rampant pandemic. Well, someone's responsible. These people are just determined. These are also Christians, Catholics, because the scale of the protests is that it would be difficult to say that there are only non-believers there. There are also people going to church, there are also people who share the views expressed by the Pope and the Catholic Church, but believe that this is simply an exaggeration. And that's the kind of voice I hear in the streets, even in the smallest towns, even in the towns of my county, which I'm really surprised about. Protests are also organized where the Church has a very strong position.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u175	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, I have a question. I've spoken many times in my region. Whether indirectly or directly with protesters and I saw that the problem was complete ignorance. Already at the beginning there was such a message that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal introduced a total ban on abortion. Would you agree with me here? I think it's a rhetorical question, but I want it to sound like it. Does the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concern the total ban on abortion? Yeah, I told you I didn't. Does the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concern a situation where pregnancy poses a risk to the life or health of a pregnant woman? Does the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concern a situation where there is a reasonable suspicion that the pregnancy was caused by a prohibited act, e.g. rape?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u177	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u178	Senator, I will answer this question, although I have partially answered it earlier, because Senator Necessary asked questions about communication or separation of these conditions, and so did Senator Czerwiński. I've explained that before. I agree with one thing, Senator. I also get a lot of calls and e-mails where women, mostly women, ask if this is a total ban on abortion. And what does it turn out to be? That society is confused. But why? That's because, Mr. Senator, the next day Mrs. Kaja Godek on Twitter and in various other media media has announced that it's time to have an abortion after the rape, which is the next condition. As for the danger to health and life, I have already explained that it always poses and will pose a threat to the life and health of a woman, but in answer, I will add one more thing. Why are such questions asked? Maybe we should think about it. Or is it because people don't know anything about procreation, sexuality? And what's the effect? This is the result of a lack of sexual education, but also a lack of legal education. I agree, although I am not responsible for either. It is a fact that in countries where abortion is acceptable and where there is also a very high level of sexual education, a very high level of knowledge of human sexuality, abortion occurs very little or almost all. And in countries where abortion is restricted or banned in any way, the percentage of abortions, unfortunately especially those performed in an abortion underground, is large. What kind of question is that? Does that guide us? Well, on the question of whether it is sometimes necessary to comply with the provisions of the 1993 Act, which Mr. Senator Czerwiński He was quoting me. There's other rules out there. There are rules on universal sex education, and that's unrealized. It is not enough that the provisions of this law are being fought by you if you consider the narrative of Minister Czarnek or other ministers and representatives of Law and Justice. This law is not even respected in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u179	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Martynowski a question. You're getting ready for Senator Bierecki, second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I see that this discussion has gone far beyond the text of the resolution. I'll try to stick to that line. We can see from the second paragraph that the position of the political Constitutional Tribunal violates the dignity of women, deprives them of freedom of choice and the right to health protection, and exposes them to inhuman treatment and torture. I read further that this position was expressed with the participation of those who were not allowed to rule, which makes it legally non-existent. I would like to ask whether this ruling or the position, as you write here, of the politically elected Constitutional Tribunal should be published or not. And what would you do as a lawyer with a judgment legally non-existent if you ruled, for example? Left and Civic Coalition, what, of course, do I not wish Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u182	Dear Senator, I wish Poland what you said in the last sentence, and I think it will be soon. This position, of course, violates the dignity of women. In what sense should this be explained? Even the UN committee says that an inability to have an abortion can be considered tortured for inhuman treatment. It is also a violation of human dignity and a violation of the right to decide about personal life, about your own family, all those rights which are also guaranteed by the Constitution. Such a position deeply interferes with those freedoms which are born to every human being and which the state has a duty to protect.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u183	Thank you very much. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u184	Mr. Marshal, I asked a completely different question. But I understand you've been communicating, and that question may have slipped away. I asked, Mrs. Marshal, whether this ruling, which was given by the Constitutional Tribunal, should be published.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u185	Of course. If there are judgments... all judgments of course... It's just that there's a problem. It is no one's intention not to publish. We have already experienced the situation that judgments, true judgments, existing judgments, issued by the Court in its correct composition have not been published for political reasons. And that's a crime. This is a crime, and the proceedings for this crime have been terminated for the time being. I'll see you later. So that any ruling of the Court under normal legal conditions, if it were to rule any other... No, let me rephrase that. It is not about who rules, whether the right hand rules, whether the left or the centre rules, it is about us living in a democratic state of law, where courts are properly filled, where the independence of judges and the independence of courts are not affected. Then it doesn't matter who's in charge, and the ruling just needs to be published. But here the situation is that this position is not a judgment of strict sense, such as the Constitution and the rules require the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, because here all the elements such as the composition of the Tribunal and whether one of the judges is not excluded from the law, and whether there is a duly appointed President who has designated this hearing, who is ruling and who is conducting the proceedings, and whether the judges are properly appointed, whether they are not persons who may not be seated there, all together consists of whether it is a judgment or not. If it were a judgment fulfilling all these criteria, no matter who would rule, it should be published. But we're back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u186	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Bierecki and you prepare Senator Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u187	Thank you very much. I will refer to my previous question, because the resolution to be adopted by the Senate is to state clearly with regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal... That's exactly what makes them legally nonexistent. The adoption of this resolution will prevent the marshal from applying the procedure of the article. 85a Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which would, after all, serve to take the senate initiative to present amendments to the law, the constitutionality of which was challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal. So my question to the senator is this: was the committee, when proposing such a provision in this resolution, aware of the collision that will take place, with the Senate Rules of Procedure and with the competence of the Marshal? The adoption of such a resolution would actually mean that the Senate prevents the marshal from applying the procedure of the article. 85a.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u188	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u189	The recipe will lose its power when it's published, and I've already said it once. I don't think the Senate's gonna have anything to do here. Of course, it's all with reservations that... From the very beginning, and at the committee meeting, and here in the High House, it has been stressed why we believe Not only do we feel that way, because that's what all the lawyers in this country who work on the constitution say. That judgment is a non-existent judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u190	Thank you very much. The question you're asking is Senator Nutchowska. You're getting ready for Senator Swede. This is the last person.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u191	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask you something. You're a lawyer. In inheritance law, there is such a thing as inheriting an unborn child. How do you take it, determine the time of pregnancy, so that this child can inherit? That's my first question. Two. What do you conclude that only the Church defends life? And a third, actually rhetorical. Is it a peaceful protest to destroy the facades of my office?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u192	Dear Senator, the senator has brought up the subject of nasciturus, about which I could speak for an hour, legally, of course, but I will be brief. The subject of nasciturus and in general the legal structure of nasciturus has its roots in Roman law, in ancient times. She caused that when someone died and his wife was pregnant... The point was that if a child is born alive under such conditions, he may inherit. And this is clearly defined in Latin paremia. I will quote it here; I too, not only Mr Marshal, will have the opportunity to speak Latin in this House: nasciturus pro iam nato habetur, quotiens de commodidis eius agitur. So wesciturus can be the subject of inheritance rights if he's born alive. And this institution of nasiciturus of Roman law was requisitioned in all legal orders, the basis of which is Roman law. But there's one reservation, that's conditional ability: if he's born alive. If he's born alive. And only then can he be the subject of rights and obligations and inheritance. And that's where I'd stop. Second... I didn't hear you, Senator. Did you say that only the Church is defending life or that it is not just the Church? [[Just the church.]] [[I asked you, from what you conclude, that only the Church defends life, not those who do not belong directly to this Church or which do not confess Christian ideology.]] But, Dear Senator, I do not think that only the Church defends life. That's not good enough. On the contrary, I wonder when the Church defends life. Is he defending life by simply saying is he defending life in action? Because I'm the one who's defending life. I defend the lives of the poor, defend the lives of the people with disabilities I help, defend the lives of women, defend the lives of children, including those sexually abused, different children. Therefore, it is not only the Church who defends life. You're right. What I mean more is that the Church is defending life in her sermons, but sometimes I have some doubts about whether or not the actions follow, because in the case of e.g. molestation by priests, of course some, is difficult to talk about defending life. Secular people, too, are defending life. And people like us here are also defending life. I just wish that the defence of life was universal, that it would be the defence of every life, even the life of that person, who would then turn out to be a non-heteronormative person. And as for the third question, I, Senator, regret that something like this happened to your office. I'm very opposed to any act of vandalism against anyone or anything. And I'm also a great opponent of aggression. Because we're here in the Senate... This is perhaps the greatest prey of our House, that we here have different views, but we are not attacking ourselves aggressively, we are just debating. We have different views, and we'll probably always have, we'll convince ourselves to these views, we'll convince society to these views sometimes, but we respect ourselves as people. I deeply regret that your office or any façade has been demolished.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u193	Thank you very much. The Last Asking Question Mr. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs Marshal, I will ask you here directly about one inaccuracies in the draft resolution, which I already pointed out at the meeting of the joint committees. I'm talking about public authority. I pointed out that, as we know, in Poland, as in many democratic countries, in all democratic states of the law, we have a threefold division of power. The State, as the applicant, has done here, in the proposed resolution, such a procedure, in order to combine, as I understand, the judicial authority and this element, which is the Constitutional Tribunal, with the executive authority, in order to somehow be able to attack the government... Well, the public authorities also have legislative power, including the Sejm and the Senate. And here we have this statement: the Senate of the Republic of Poland is extremely concerned about the actions of the public authorities. So we can read it in such a way that the Senate of the Republic of Poland also accepts the actions of the Senate of the Republic of Poland with the highest concern. Why didn't you change that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u195	Dear Senator, you know very well that some authorities have power and some authorities do not have power. And everyone knows, in the country and abroad, that he who has the majority is ruled, which does not deprive the quality of power of these other organs as well. The majority of the Sejm rule and the government rule. And smart people know exactly that this is about power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u196	Thank you very much. I'm opening the discussion right now. I'd like a list of the records, please. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u197	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. In a moment, the Senate will accept or reject, probably insignificant, one-to-one or two-voiced advantage, a draft resolution on the restriction of civil rights. The resolution, which will refer to the situation following those events, which from the formal point of view was initiated by the current Constitutional Tribunal President of Julia Przyłębska, to which positions today, yesterday and the day before yesterday were massly referring and refer to Poles and Poles on the streets of our cities. Personally, I believe that the position of the Constitutional Court is wrong from the substantive and fatal point of view of the time of its adoption. The time of adoption was motivated by political considerations and, above all, by the low effectiveness of government action in the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus. But I do know that any one of us in this room can have an opinion on this matter. And these views are different. I listened very carefully to all the votes at the meeting of the Senate Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, where we discussed the text of this resolution. And, as I believe, we should have no doubt that, contrary to what was said there, the Senate has a right or even an obligation to take away Go ahead. Please, let each of us take a stand, simply say whether it considers, like the Constitutional Tribunal, that a woman has a legal obligation to give birth to a child, even if, despite the progress of medicine, there is no possibility of any effective assistance to a child who has been diagnosed with a fatal defect, i.e. an incurable defect, an irreversible defect, e.g. in the form of an empty stomach or Patau's syndrome, which ends in the death of a fetus or the birth of a child dying just after birth. Each of us has the right to our own views and beliefs. I don't think the state can force parents to be heroic. We senators will express our opinion on this matter by voting in favour of a resolution or against a resolution. We have the opportunity to present our views in this Chamber in a vote. Ordinary citizens were forced to present their views on the streets because they had no other opportunity to present them, and they were forced to present these views during the pandemic. Is today a good time for this? No, because of the risk of infection. Did the protesters choose him? No, it was elected by politicians by referring the application to the Constitutional Court, and elected by the President of the Court, setting the date of the hearing. So that saying that the Senate, dealing with this resolution today, violates the three divisions of the authorities or lowers the rank of the Senate, is simply not serious. The rank of Senate is decreasing when its members do not deal with issues relevant to citizens and citizens. And this one belongs to the most important ones. Both parties have the same view as to the importance of the matter. We in this room, dealing with this issue, doing our job, doing our responsibilities. We do this by openly expressing our views on this matter. Saying that we're trying to influence other organs is completely illegal and false. We don't want a situation like the Seym. The Member representing this House before the Constitutional Tribunal did not even have the position of the relevant Sejm committee on this matter. We do not want a situation where everything happens behind a politically veiled curtain. Here I ask and appeal: by presenting our views on this matter, despite the emotions that accompany us, let us not resort to any forms of aggression. This principle must apply to all and those who formally represent public services and demonstrators. It's not just a cultural war, it's an ideological war, it's a particular drama of women, their husbands and their partners. These are their dramas, their problems. A sound state can help to solve them, instead of increasing pain, suffering, and despair. The Senate is not and cannot be blind to this situation, each of us must make a decision. I will vote in favour of a resolution which objects to the actions of the public authorities aimed at undermining the principles of the rule of law guaranteed in the Constitution and the worldly neutral nature of our state. I say yes to the Senate, which is not a silent chamber on the most important issues for citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u198	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Alexander Swed will speak. For the record, there are now 20 senators enrolled in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to clarify one breach, which unfortunately works very well in the public opinion. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal does not imply a complete and absolute ban on abortion. I have already pointed out at the meeting of the Joint Committees that, in accordance with the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, on the protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion in Poland, access to legal abortion is possible when: firstly, pregnancy poses a risk to the life or health of a pregnant woman, secondly, prenatal studies or other medical conditions indicate the likelihood of severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus or an incurable disease threatening its life, thirdly, there is a reasonable suspicion that pregnancy was caused by a prohibited act. The change related to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal does not concern the first and third conditions, but concerns only the grounds for stopping pregnancy in the event of only a high probability, and not the occurrence of a severe disability or illness of the unborn child. Regarding the project that I have already asked about here, the draft amendment of abortion law, it was submitted on 30 November 2018 by representatives of the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative, with more than 830 thousand signatures of support. The application was submitted to the Constitutional Court by the Senators of Law and Justice, the PSL-Kukiz Club and the Confederation. The Constitution currently in force, and therefore its Article. 38, which states that the Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life, the article referred to by the Constitutional Tribunal was adopted in 1997 by the government of SLD - today it is the Left and PSL and signed by the then President Alexander Kwasniewski. So this article of the Constitution has been adopted so de facto by those environments that are most protesting today. And now, referring directly to the draft resolution, I will say that in my opinion this resolution is already another resolution which, unfortunately, in my opinion, depreciates the High Chamber of the present 10th term. You complained that we had made many historical resolutions in our previous term of office. Only that they referred to important events for our country and for our nation, showed outstanding people for our history. These resolutions were largely prepared so that they could be adopted by the House as a whole in consensus. However, we now have another draft resolution, which is intended for a specific political environment, for a specific political purpose. This resolution is intended to attack the government side and the law and justice environment In fact, one side of the High House is going to attack the other side, that's how I take it. And it's a confrontational resolution, and it's irresponsible in my opinion. Not so long ago, in the last two years, as part of the biggest holiday of democracy, which is elections, society, and therefore women, elected their representatives to local governments, to the European Parliament, to the Sejm and the Senate, and in the last elections elected the President of the Republic of Poland. On the occasion of each campaign discussions were held on fundamental issues for the state, everyone could express their views and manifest them publicly, as they could do. it is always and everywhere, but it should always be done in accordance with the applicable law. However, the electoral verdict that has taken place has not been recognised by some communities, and therefore, in principle not from now on, steps are being taken to overthrow democratically elected authorities. Isn't that in the previous term together with the so-called. The Committee for the Defence of Democracy and under the motto of the Constitution, some of the environments went to overthrow democratically elected authorities? So you have a constitution adopted in 1997 by the government of SLD and PSL and its art. 38 referring to the legal protection of life referred to by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment. Where is the password for the Constitution today? But that's the way it is, when the states of anti-democratic rhetoric correspond to the slogan of the Constitution, you refer to the Constitution, and when it doesn't fit, you'd be happy to leave the constitution on the side. When the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal suits you, you speak of its execution, you count how many days it is not executed, and when it does not suit you, you even call for it not to be published. Finally, referring to your next political resolution, I will say that the statement of discussion and fundamental decisions should be open, while maintaining the full possibilities of both expressing their views and manifesting civil attitudes. Who and when did he refuse such a manifestation? In five years of rule of law and justice, the government never once refused to organize any manifestation, in no way limited the possibility of manifesting its views, of course in accordance with law. Thus, this resolution is based on false statements, it is an expression of the desire to make the High House an instrument of attack on the government side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u200	Senator Marcin Bosacki is speaking. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: God, who wrote this to you?]] [[Grandma.]] [[The voice of the hall: Call not the name of the Lord your God in vain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking today not only as a senator from Poznań, not only as a representative of the Senate Civic Coalition club, but also as a father of four children, including two growing daughters whom we want all of us pass a better country, less divided and more respectful of the rights of all citizens than it is right now. High Izbo, the Senate should take care of the so-called case. a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal from 6 days ago because it caused, in conjunction with a pandemic wave, the largest wave of social protests since 1989. These are not only demonstrations in Poznań, Krakow, Gdańsk or Warsaw, but also demonstrations in Pobiedzka, Czarnkow, Łukowo or Sokołów Podlaski. This sentence, actually. What's everybody doing? We know. He didn't go to the Constitutional Court. The moment of starting this judgment is the idea of a man who sets fire to Poland, using the Court, trying to use the Catholic Church and us in an unforgettable way for 30 years, dividing Poles. i.e.Jarosław Kaczyński. Mr Kaczyński's speech yesterday in the Seym And today he's doing it all over again. He will join the disgraceful cards of Polish parliamentarianism. His appeal to the supporters of the PiS, to quote, "defend Polish churches at all costs," will go into history alongside another speech of the satrapa from more than half a century ago. No, I'm not thinking about General Jaruzelski, I'm thinking about Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz. This speech resembles the speech of Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz on 29 June 1956. And then in the streets of my city there was still a riot and shots fired. In which speech the communist prime minister of that time said: anyone who raises his hand to power will chop that hand off. I want to warn Mr Kaczyński not to cause Polish bloodshed Whether it's the militia you're calling to go out on the streets or the service you're under. The Poles and Poles will not forget this. And the fact that the Church and the Lord God need not be defended, especially when referring to hatred, reminded you not so long ago, Pope Francis. These demonstrations not only show that most Poles do not want solutions of the kind which so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal proposes. These demonstrations also show that in such a delicate case we need some new, rewritten compromise on abortion, since this old compromise, which in my view was not ideal, but served Poland well, while maintaining social peace in this matter for 27 years, was demolished by Mr Kaczyński. But these demonstrations also show that a new distribution of relations between the state and the Church is needed. We have to stop with the pathological model of state relations built over the last five years. The church, a model which in my view was actually harmful to the Church, but above all to the state, a model of the alliance of the throne and altar, which on the one hand symbolized hundreds of millions of dollars for the investments of Mr Rydzyk, and on the other hand was the indulgence of the state for numerous crimes of pedophilia in the Catholic Church. We should get back to the constitutional principle of impartiality. And that's a quote from the article. 25 Constitution For the impartiality of the public authorities of the Republic of Poland in religious and worldview matters. But what brings us closer to the return of constitutional order and impartiality of public authorities instead of an alliance of thrones and altars? Or writing insulting passwords on temple buildings? Not in my opinion. In fact, it will be closer not to entering temples, but to taking the Prime Minister out of the building in a democratic way at the Avenues of Ujazdowskie representatives of the PiS, Mr Kaczyński and de facto subordinate to Mr Morawiecki. I would also like to refer to the case in my shocking opinion, i.e. that Mr Kaczyński, speaking in the Seym yesterday, dared to use the symbol of Poland Fighting to offend Poles. Mr. Kaczyński, you have no right to wear this sign, which has already been told by real veterans, true participants of the Warsaw Uprising. You have no right to invoke this tradition, nor do you have the right to rely on the tradition of fighting communism in the 1980s, because that is the right of people like Frasyniuk, present in this House, Marshal Borusewicz or Lech Wałęsa. The true Polish tradition is not the sowing of hatred and a sting of one Pole on the other. The true Polish tradition is freedom, diversity and brotherhood. And Poland, in which these great values and this great tradition are respected again, is possible. Just as it is possible to really fight the koravirus, not cover it with the kind of disturbance that Mr. Kaczyński causes when we have the highest disease in the world, given the proportions, the incidence of coritos. Similarly, it is possible to really fight the economic crisis, not pretend it is, as it is now. And it is possible above all for a country in which Poles and Poles talk to each other and cooperate on the most important issues. High Izbo, we must rebuild the community of Poles and Poles, but in order to do so, we must remove the power of those who destroy this community for their particular interests, the party interests of their power. Mr Kaczyński and his helpers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this debate, I speak as a woman, but also as a doctor. I do not agree that such judgments and decisions should be shared by society. I also do not agree that the rights granted to women should be taken away from them. I remember perfectly well the times when there were closed borders, when it was impossible to speak on certain subjects, when the rights of women, but also of society, were greatly limited. And then I dreamed that the right to freedom, the right to choose, the right to free expression would be given to us once and for all. I wanted the young generation, the generation of my children to have these rights and to be able to use them. Now, after many years, I'm experiencing a kind of déjà vu. I can't believe that right now we're dividing people again into better and worse people, that we're taking away women's right to decide on certain issues. The world has moved on, the environment has changed. I don't know if you've noticed, but there are 18-, 19-, 20-year-olds, light people. They know exactly what they're in danger of and why this decision is so dangerous. They risk their health, perhaps even their lives, because they go out for demonstrations during the epidemic. But see that these young people have the support of the elderly, the mothers, the grandmothers who know exactly what it means to push women into the corner. And that's why we don't agree. It's not a coincidence that a conviction was committed at that time. After all, the idea was to cover up the inept fight against the epidemic and create a discourse on a completely different matter, and the fact that it was going to be hot, we knew from the beginning. Today, on the public television program, I heard this message addressed to society. Well, the narrator in one of the programs said that long ago severe punishments threatened women for starting an argument in a public forum, they had to face the fact that they would be forced to take a stroll on the market with a stone tied to their necks; and who knows if it would be worth introducing similar rules in public life today. How long have we been living? What are we talking about? This is just a scandal! As far as medical matters are concerned, as I said, I am a doctor and I believe that the abortion law which was created, which was also introduced in the interwar years, in the Polish People's Republic adopted in 1956, has every time taken into account medical indications. That was one of the most important reasons. In 1956, the law also pointed to the possibility of abortion because of the difficult conditions of life of a woman, so it also took into account the conditions under which she was able to have an abortion. She's a future child, maybe a crippled child, she'll have to raise. It was an approach to women, to ethics, to morality, not denying women the right to choose. You're saying this isn't about women. This applies to women, and it also applies to women because it concerns their mental health. For many years, over the last years, we have been focusing on the development of medicine, innovation, progress, boasting that we have excellent results in the development of medicine. That's what I'm talking about. That's what prenatal tests were for. After all, they were not created only to exist, but to be used so that this knowledge could be used and to inform the future mother of the situation in which she is in, to protect her mental health, but, above all, to give her a choice. The second point is whether the State is sure to provide care for disabled persons, those in need of support, or whether it is sure to provide care for families who take care of such children. Recently, I heard a woman who had buried her child after 36 years of single parenting and benefit. Now that she was alone, she was also deprived of any income necessary to sustain and live. That's what shows what our country's care looks like. So first let's build a whole system, a support system, let's build real education, not just health education, but also about sexual life. Let us not be afraid of this subject, because young people should know, should have the right to choose from knowledge, as happens in medicine. That's why I'm not surprised at the situation that's on the streets right now. I am not surprised that every day crowds of young and old people come out and scream: Enough! Why? Because today we're restricting women's rights, and tomorrow maybe we'll limit your rights. It's an act of anger, an anger of society. These vulgarisms we hear are not vulgarisms directed against someone. These are vulgarisms, which are an eloquent sign of these great emotions that lie within these people. And in conclusion, I'm going to talk about what I saw today, going into the Senate. Police crowds, crowds of people dressed from top to bottom like in a war. Shields, combat cars, some cars to block the road and keep it from going through. Young policemen armed to the teeth. Against who? Against young people, their children, 18-, 20-year-old women? Let's see what we've come up with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Kochan will speak. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? I'm sorry, I don't know if you can hear me... Mr. Marshal? [[You can hear the senator and you can see it.]] Thank you very much. The most difficult in democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is democracy. Respect for other people's views and the right to them to have these other views. We are not questioning the results of the 2019 elections, and in these elections the voters decided on a majority for the Sejm and the majority for the Senate opposition today. Today I heard that these elections are being questioned because he speaks to you, according to the words of Jarosław Kaczyński, a criminal. I don't agree with that. 135 thousand people in my voivodship have decided that I am not a criminal and that I am worthy to represent their views in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, I ask that the senators of the ruling party do not say that we have no right to make decisions and resolutions on a case that has been absorbing the whole of Poland for six days. And it absorbs it in such a way that young, older, middle-aged people go out into the street to say that way of exercising authority to say that they do not take away the subjectivity resulting from being a citizen who has the right to choose his way of life. Not for a warrant, but for the choice of your way of life. We see young women who say we want a choice, don't make us be heroes, because you have no right to be. I agree with them, and I identify with them. You're telling me that so pragmatic... You can like or dislike, respect or disrespect Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, President of the governing party, Deputy Prime Minister responsible for security, you can like or dislike him as I say, but one cannot refuse him: pragmatism. So a pragmatic politician. As powerful as some present him, he may have influenced the Members of his party so that they would have the courage to take the subject of the prohibition of abortion in the form provided for by the legislator, in the form of a law. However, he allowed abdication, because after all, the Sejm abdicated from making a decision on this matter. The Sejm said: Constitutional Court, deliver us, write for us something that will allow us to hide behind you. And that's what happened. But we know that this Constitutional Tribunal has flaws that affect its functioning. Well, there are judges who have already been appointed as judges, there is a very controversial choice of the President, who has ordered the removal of academic titles from the names of other judges, because she could only place her master's degree before hers. The controversy over the judgeship... Moreover, there are also many active politicians in the Court's membership, including a politician who did not hide her political views until several months ago. So could you hide behind the Constitutional Tribunal? It was possible to hide from cowardice, just to say today: it was not me, it was not us, the ruling party, we are guilty of what is happening on the streets. You are to blame, Senator Magdalena Kochan. You, the other senators and Members who dare to support women fighting for their basic civil rights and their accompanying men are guilty. Is this the right thing to do? Why did this happen? It is difficult to deny Mr Jarosław Kaczyński pragmatism. So what was he trying to cover? What is the purpose of this uprising of already very strong protests? Senators' colleagues here said that they are the largest since 1989, and who knows if they are not the largest in Poland's history. I'm not gonna scale those protests. If they were half as small, they would be as close to my heart, because these people really demand good authority. No, the state cannot be oppressive to its citizens. No, the state should support every mom who decides to have a baby, even with many flaws. But this mother needs to be sure that if she decides to raise such a child, she will be supported by the state for as long as it takes, even for retirement. And we don't have that kind of guarantee. We've got police, we've got water cannons, we've got water cannons, we've got water cannons that are prepared by policemen, including young people. This is unacceptable. And that's why I think we need this Senate resolution very much. It's time for us to stop talking. I'd like to ask my fellow senators something, although it should be a statement. Have you ever imagined that we would be deaf to what's been going on in the streets for the past six days, that we wouldn't see it, that we would be silent about the wrong way of ruling and insulting voters who made other choices? After all, no one wants to live in such a country, neither we nor you. Our country, our country, must be a democratic state, a state of law, a state which respects this law, which does not order it and supports its citizens in their wise decisions. With all my heart, I am in favour of the Senate taking this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Wczyła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We know so much about ourselves how much we have been tested by a former Nobel Prize laureate Wisław Szymborska. It would seem that after nearly 7 years of power by the PiS about this party and its leader, Jarosław Kaczyński, we already know everything. First of all, we know that they have no democracy and one of the fundamental pillars of democracy, which is the division of power and the rule of law, i.e. the agreement that politics is governed by the law with its institutions, among which the Constitutional Tribunal has a very important function. It is worth reminding here, however, that the destruction of democracy and the rule of law in Poland PiS just started with the dismantling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This has triggered several protests throughout Poland, but PiS survived them. For Poles, the politicisation of the Constitutional Tribunal was too abstract at the time to fight for its independence. Now the Poles have found out, and above all the Poles have learned that with this institution the PiS can at any time turn the most beautiful sphere of their lives into hell. And the Poles came out and went out on the street and clearly, without changing words, they said what they thought about the future of this policy and this formation. You could say that today history is probably circling a circle. The PiS began dismantleing the rule of law from the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal and from the use of the Tribunal to the rape of citizens may have fallen. But I have another frightening doubt: do we really know everything about the PiS by Szymborska? Have we tested him enough? Ladies and gentlemen, farmers' protests related to the Animal Protection Act have not expired, in which, without compensation and protection due, PiS wanted to eliminate an important sector of livestock farming. As we know, the motive for these actions was not love for animals, but internal gameplay in the coalition, in power. I ask, therefore, rhetorically today: is the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal only intended, however cruel it sounds, to make hell out of women's lives, or is there a political purpose behind it so far? Isn't this the purpose of using the obvious wave of protests in this situation, to introduce a state of emergency in Poland under the pretext of protecting churches and social property from hooligans and using other passwords that are not accidentally similar to those used by General Jaruzelski during the implementation of the martial law? The current government is clearly unable to deal with the epidemic. In a moment it may turn out that the country will be plunged into chaos due to the increasing number of COVID-19 diseases and clogging up unprepared for such a wave of health care, and PiS, without having the courage to admit that our call for the introduction of a natural disaster, which on behalf of the Civic Coalition in May I presented, was justified, will take away the last freedoms from Poles and legalize the system of total authority under the pretext of the need to introduce the so-called. Social peace. In a few days. Maybe in a few weeks. Maybe we'll see what we don't know about Kaczynski and about the PiS yet. Two things, though, I'm sure. The first so-called The social impudence of this political formation makes it likely that the use of the Constitutional Tribunal and making hell out of women's lives can only be a pretext for martial law. That's all we know about PiS and Kaczynski. That's all we've checked out. But Wisława Szymborska, quoted at the beginning of the sentence, was also about what is usually deeply hidden in our human nature and what is revealed in extreme situations, in the face of a huge tragedy. And that's the second thing I'm sure of. Your senate, the elblings are working in this sphere right now. 30 years ago, Jarosław Kaczyński began his political career as a senator elected in the Elbląg district, and at the moment hundreds of women are starting a trial against Jarosław Kaczyński in Elbląg. And I have no doubt about the verdict that the city of his first constituents will give him. This sentence will contain only one word, with an exclamation mark. I am proud of the Elblążankas who thus want to end the political career of Jarosław Kaczyński, which started in Elbląg. And I am sure that Poles, and above all Poles throughout the country, will also prove themselves in this situation and remove PiS and Kaczyński from Polish political and social life. The only thing left of you, Mr Kaczyński and Mr PiS, with such a scenario, is the placement of PiS and Kaczyński in Polish history just next to Jaruzelski and PZPR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u209	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this stand in the building of the Polish Senate today it is okay to say the words first: Brothers and Sisters, you are not criminals You are not criminals in both chambers of the Polish Parliament, fighting for women's rights and justice for all citizens, you are not criminals in all these big and small Polish cities, today expressing your anger. Anger is a word that reflects the current mood of millions of Poles. That's anger. for arrogant power and greedy, devoid of all scruples, the same Church, which, last week, claimed by one of its most important representatives in Poland, that there was nothing to blame in the area of the terrible crime of pedophilia, that nothing burdened his conscience. And those people who haven't heard the cry of boys and girls raped in the rectory today hear the voice of embryos. It's a disgrace to say that. It is a disgrace that today you are trying the Polish state, this most sacred institution for us, to submit to one, even the most respected of us, to the Church. After all, in this matter, which is really worth remembering, the dispute is that the Catholic Church has such a definition of human life and human life rather than another one. And the Church did not use the same definition throughout its history. And such a restrictive attitude toward abortion is not shared by other denominations, other great Christian religions. Such a position, other than even other Christians in this regard, has the Catholic Church Of course, he has the right to do so. It is worth noting that no Polish Catholic forces, first of all, to extramarital sex. Secondly, no one forces her to have an abortion of a child who would like to have a baby, whether or not her decision is simply a decision on motherhood, whether she is a heroic decision on a child who, when she stops being a fetus and becomes a human being, will be a very sick person. This is a heroic decision. Many times these words were written here. No one can be forced to be heroic, but no one can be heroic. The decisions we are discussing are worth knowing. They do not take away any rights from anyone, but these rights extend, the ideal to which we strive. And what the Constitutional Tribunal is doing today is going to do and do. It's about to happen. Law and Justice is another narrowing of our freedom, and it is freedom in this area where the failure to teach the Catholic Church around the world is so bright. Sexual ethics There is no other area of teaching of the Catholic Church in which people, whether Poles or Americans, would reject this teaching of the Catholic Church. And that's what happens when it comes to sex. The Catholic Church in today's world is faced with an undoubted problem of the complete collapse of its authority in the field of morality. Bishops, who moved paedophile priests from parish to parish and did not see a moral problem in it, see a moral problem in the case of a woman who is faced with a dramatic choice. These bishops, surprised that they are no longer authorities to anyone, but only a commercial and political partner for the Polish PiS, are forcing us now... to turn their own failure in teaching religion into a police baton. And yet, no one else, which is worth pointing out The teaching of the Catholic Church in Poland and its activities is not embarrassing. Priests are in schools and kindergartens, priests are on police headquarters, in hospitals, in the army. The chaplains have the Prison Service, the chaplains have the Border Guard, the chaplains have every institution in Poland that wants it. The Church has powerful money, powerful media, and no one embarrasses him to teach Poles that a condom is a sin, that all contraception is a sin or a total crime, as one of the messengers of Law and Justice said in the previous term. Yes, yes, ma'am. This is also the view of the people of the Church Anti-conception It's a crime. Therefore, don't be surprised that today, in small towns, people are waiting for the three parishes to check where the kiosk is sold condoms and where the pharmacy is sold contraceptives. From this we are only a step away, to introduce the customs police in Poland to their ideal brothers from Saudi Arabia and to check whether people have sex in marriage or not. This is the logical consequence of introducing religious rigour into the penal code in a situation where no one is forced into immoral life, and considers something moral. In Poland, people with long-term marriages and multiple offspring are treated with quite a common respect. By any means, there are very few of these people in the rule of law and justice. This case is not just about women's rights. It concerns the relationship of the state and the Church, the relationship of the state to religion. And in this area we, Poles, will certainly have a discussion. We are waiting for decisions which will have to define our reality again, because it is clear that this extremely privileged position of the Catholic Church in Poland in the Western world has proved to be too small for this Church. The Church said we want more power, more money, more influence. And today, the nation on demand, expressed in the words "More for the Church," corresponds to one simple Polish slogan: "More freedom." And that freedom is at stake today. Enemies of the idea of freedom want to interfere not only in our political freedoms, but also in our freedoms regarding personal life, including sexual preferences, sexual life and everything involved. I think it is worth using strong words today to describe what happened in Poland with the Church and what happened in Poland with you for the last 5 years. But using strong words, you can't use violence and you can't use vulgarity. This is the success of Jarosław Kaczyński. If we go down to their level... There is no place in Polish tradition to desecrate places of religious worship. I understand the anger, I share the anger, but I say from the Senate stand: beware of the provocators, beware of the provocators. I remember that when Marshal Borusewicz was sitting here in the 1980s fighting for freedom, every time there were strikes, as soon as the contemporary Solidarity raised his head, the media was about profaning the cemeteries of soldiers of the Soviet Army. After all, this is the same mechanism: to talk about freedom of Poles instead of talking about freedom of Poles, like then, e.g. about destroying cemeteries. Today I appeal to you, Brothers and Sisters: let us talk about our freedom, freedom from the possessiveness of the Church, but let us not talk about vandalism, let us not talk about physical attack, because such a physical attack or vandalism today serves people who very often do not believe in God, regardless of what clothes they wear. Because can he believe in God a man who turns a blind eye to pedophilia? Can He Believe in God? I don't think so. These people, often unbelievers in God, are actually happy when they see desecrated churches, because they know that an even larger stream of money will flow from the pockets of poor Poles and Poles in defence of the Church. So let me repeat: beware of provocation, because provocation is a tool of totalitarian power. From this bleacher, I would like to thank you especially... [[Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes.]] ...people in small towns, Polish women in small towns, who today have the courage to fight for their rights, because here I will repeat the words I once said. No Polish feminist in the big city has to fear the bishop, but every Polish Catholic must fear her parish priest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u210	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Marshal Borusewicz. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the proposed resolution, which refers to the current situation, not without reason. There is another day of demonstrations and rallies of young people, women, today also before the Sejm, and this is a situation that has been provoked, I do not know whether consciously or completely unaware of the consequences. We have right now... Different. Those who rule now have a serious problem. When we discussed here, we protested the changes destroying the rule of law, destroying the institutions that deal with the law, you called us and the CODE when he demonstrated on the street, total opposition. You didn't listen to our appeals, you didn't listen to our proposals, what we said bounced off the wall. But this total opposition was such a delicate political dispute. We said, I said, I warned you that since this is the way you deal with the opposition in Parliament, since this is how you deal with those who protested peacefully a few years ago in the streets, you will have to deal with a completely different situation, you will have to deal with not those who try to explain, justify, but you will have to deal with those who demand and protest clearly and decisively. They're young people. She speaks a different language than we used to speak and use in parliament. This is a different language and this is a different situation. The demonstrations cover the whole country and it looks like they will continue. They will also continue after the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister for Security, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of PiS, who calls for the formation of party militias. It's unconventional for the Deputy Prime Minister to call for it! After yesterday's speech, the situation can really go in the direction of physical clashes, in the direction we wouldn't want. The elimination of the anti-abortion compromises, we called this compromise an abortion compromise, but it was basically an anti-abortion compromise, led to this state of boiling, boiling young people and boiling women affected by this change, this elimination of the essential provisions of the law. This is understandable because it hits this particular group of women, but also men... This group is in a procreational period and it will be affected by this new situation. The Church states that he was against abortion from the beginning. Yeah, that's true. But 23 years ago, he accepted an anti-abortion compromise. I know this because in 1993 I voted on this law, in discussions on this law, and for me the situation was clear. What's changed? Has the church changed? Yes, the Church has changed. But society has also changed, and there is no going back to what was. There is no return to the anti-abortion compromise we agreed to 23 years ago. It's clear to me. The so-called judgment. The Constitutional Tribunal shall apply directly. There's no possibility of any combination, creating new laws. I'm not talking about regulations anymore. A regulation on this issue would be a puriazum. The so-called judgment. The Court is directly entering the legal system. There is no possibility of any additional arrangements, laws, billings. I would also like to say that, in my view, at least one of the reasons which has been set out in the bill, a condition allowing abortion in a situation where pregnancy arises as a result of crime, rape or incest, on the basis of the justification that we have recently heard, can also be eliminated. I have no doubt about it. Yes. This justification can be prescribed and will probably happen in the near future. So what are the exits? There might be a few exits. You can think of a referendum, in a situation where there is no consent and no consent, there will be no new law on abortion in the Sejm. That's something to think about. You can also think about eliminating the grounds for child abortion in the Penal Code. But you can also take a stand And, as I see it, law and justice can be the most reasonable It is not possible to state, as we say, that this body, which is called the Constitutional Tribunal, is not the Constitutional Tribunal, because, as the draft of this resolution says, there are persons who are not authorized to rule. And that actually makes these judgments non-existent. I'm putting this idea to Law and Justice. I think it would be from your point of view the most reasonable and least costly way out of the situation you've unfortunately taken. But you weren't the only ones who got into it because you dragged the whole country into it. After all, what is happening on the streets does not apply to just one age group at the moment, it does not apply only to all women, it concerns all Poles, Poles who are outraged, who do not agree to this situation which is already affecting the fundamental principle of the functioning of the rule of law. That is why I think it is necessary to get out of this situation. If you think that what I'm proposing is impossible, then offer your solution. Offer something because you cannot remain passive and look at it because these demonstrations are able to lead in this situation, from the head of the PiS, to some kind of clash, to some short circuit from which there will be no exit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am the co-author of the motion to reject the draft resolution and I am about to say why I will vote against the draft resolution. This resolution consists of 5 paragraphs, or actually 6 paragraphs. Let me say first of all, that the first four paragraphs are absolutely false, ideological, and not factually confirmed. The fifth thesis is so debatable that I believe that the fundamental values of the discussion... This can't be the subject of referendums, votes, so it's a discussion thesis. For whether we will take referendums and votes, or apply e.g. racial segregation, or use intolerance in public life as a rule? I don't think anyone would want this kind of thing to be voted on. So this fifth paragraph is debatable. And the sixth is real, because in fact, if the Senate ruling majority pushes through this draft resolution A resolution which, in my opinion, will be part of the compromise of this House because there will be a declaration of untruth by such a document as the resolution In fact, this resolution will be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The first paragraph, in which we speak, is that the principles of the rule of law and the worldly neutral nature of our country are at stake... High Izbo, can't 50 Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland submit a request to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the provisions of the Act? Maybe. Can't 30 senators make such a request? Maybe. Can other eligible entities make such an application to the Constitutional Court? They can. So I don't understand what this irregularity or the departure from the neutral worldview character of the state would depend on. There is absolutely no basis for such a thesis here. Second paragraph. The state of the political Constitutional Tribunal violates the dignity of women, etc., etc. Which makes them legally non-existent. That's the end of that paragraph. Does the Senate of the Republic of Poland have the right to determine whether the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are legally binding or not? Well, that's ridiculous. High Izbo, this statement is preposterous and I thought that in the serious House, which is our Senate, such wording will not fall during the legislative process related to the adoption of a resolution. This is not enough, I will recall the opinions of 2 undoubted authorities in the field of law, Professor Andrzej Zoll and Professor Ewa Łętowska, who both, asked whether it is valid, whether it has legal force, stated that if such a judgment is published, it is undoubtedly legal and enters the legal system of the Republic of Poland. That's it, period. I understand that somebody might not like it. I also did not like the various rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal in the past, such as the OFE, for example, on the issue of retirement age, but I took note of them and considered that the case was closed in this regard. This is a natural discourse in a democratic state. There are people in Poland who may not like that we are a democratic state of law, and would prefer Poland to be a monarchy. And what, for this reason can they contest the legal system in Poland? Exactly. Or those who want socialist democracy, as it was in Peerel's time, and also oppose the constitution, because it doesn't include socialist democracy. Well, there may be different views, but let's just be people who are really on the formal and systemic basis that we have in Poland. Infringing of social peace by receiving part of the citizens of the Republic of Poland .. women.. Their rights must be strongly opposed. Such a position should be seen as a provocation and an attempt on the life and health of Poles and Poles, who have been demonstrating women's rights on the streets of our country for several days. High Izbo, there is a saying: the devil is dressed in an ornat, and at Mass he calls with his holy tail. This was exactly what Mr Kaczyński said in recent days, that those who encourage And former politicians from some political backgrounds who encouraged demonstrations, raised social emotions, took an active part in these demonstrations, pointed out directions, pointed out what to do. These people, wanting or not to agree with whether or not to agree, if the number of patients with Coronavirus in Poland is increased in 7 and 10 days... I talked about this yesterday with the senator and Deputy Minister Waldemar Kraska and he said that this is the logical consequence of these collective manifestations, we will have this effect. Importantly, it may happen that the pandemic effects of these protests will not necessarily hit those young people who are mostly involved in demonstrations, but at their parents, at their grandparents, at the elderly. Let's hope it doesn't! Fourth paragraph: no circumstances should be a pretext for systemic changes. Well, what kind of changes are they? What's changed in Poland? Has the three divisions of power been abolished? Has the constitution been overthrown? Any other things happen? Oh, no, it's a fake, it's a typical fake. You can discuss whether you like this direction or not, of course, it is a public debate, but putting such a hard one is absolutely unjustified too. In the meantime, this resolution seems like it's authorized and legitimized... And I expect its authors to cut themselves off, and this is very clear, from those acts in which there has been a violation of the law, from the acts of vandalism, the destruction of parliamentary and senatorial offices, the violation of peace, the desecration of temples, the violations of sanitary law related to pandemics and all the cases we have witnessed in recent days. I look forward to this, not fueling the atmosphere, throwing the ball on the principle: the devil dressed himself in an ornament and his tail at Mass is ringing and saying that it is the fault of the judgment of the Court. High Izbo, such a decision of the Court could be expected for a very simple reason: this judgment is in line with the judgment of the Court of 1997 chaired by Professor Andrzej Zoll at the time. At the time, the Court found that the grounds of social considerations for legal abortion, introduced in 1996, during the SLD, into the 1993 Act, were inconsistent with the Constitution and provided a very broad justification. The Constitutional Tribunal has now drawn attention to the article. 38th Constitution, in which it is written, Rzeczpospolita Polska provides every man with legal protection of life, that this right cannot be differentiated due to the state of health. It is also important to note Professor Andrzej Zoll's comment on TVN24 after the judgment of the Court of 22 October. Prof. Zoll said: "The right of the child is completely ignored in this whole discussion. That's the word I use consciously. If you look at the Act of 6 January 2000 on the Ombudsman, then Article. 2 (2) 1 of this law says that a child is a man from conception to adulthood. The legislator treats a prenatal human being as a human being as a child. And that's what you have to take. Given that this prenatal condition is a legal entity. You can't say it's the mother's body. This is a person. And therefore you can't just say to yourself that it's a woman who's entitled to decide the life of this child. And he added: "This is not the will of a Polish legislator to recognize a person or a child in a prenatal state. This position was also concluded by the Court of Justice of the European Union. There is a famous ruling of November 2011, where it is clearly stated that the human embryo is treated as a human developing human in the mother's body. I think that the main drama of this debate, which is currently going through Poland, and which unfortunately is very emotional But usually such debates are very emotional, and not only in Poland, in all European countries, also in the United States. The point is that some believe that the supreme value is the freedom of the human person, who can be realized even at the expense of the right to life of another individual, being, and others, and to them. I count myself, they believe that the right to life is the foundation of human rights. And if the right to life is violated, the right to life begins to be relativised, or, as the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out, it will start to discriminate on account of certain characteristics or social situations or in any other way, unfortunately, it enters a very dangerous area. And this is the drama of modern civilizations, not only in Poland, but in the world at all. High Izbo! Assuming that a resolution cannot be adopted, which is ideological and contrary to the facts, I believe that this resolution cannot be adopted. That is my position, and I will express it in such a way that I will vote against this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear colleagues! At first I will say that I absolutely disagree with Senator Jackowski and I will vote in favour of this resolution. This resolution is necessary and necessary. I will begin by presenting the position of the Senate of my medical university in Wroclaw. As representatives of the academic community and health care professionals, we are concerned about the developments in our country following the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020. Our motto is Primum non nocere. Mine, too. The patient and his well-being are our primary objective. The ruling of the Constitutional Court leaves reasonable doubts as to its compliance with this principle. Each person, learning about the finding of irreparable defects in the fetus and making one of the most difficult decisions in his life, has the right to receive reliable, complete information based on current medical knowledge and scientific objectivity in order to make a choice in line with his beliefs and conscience on this basis. None of us, regardless of the world view, has any prerogative to deprive these rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland. The increasing social protests can have disastrous consequences not only on the health and life of the participants, but also on an epidemic of the health system. The effects of chronic underfunding of our hospitals and shortages of qualified medical personnel today, under the conditions of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, are particularly clear. Therefore, we appeal to the rulers for urgency, because this requires an extraordinary situation, finding a solution that will restore a sense of security to the protesters and allow them to stay at home so that we as health care workers will have a chance to counter the epidemic at its crucial moment for the benefit of society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the child is a walking miracle, unique and irreplaceable. I have the honor of working with children and for their good for 45 years. I'm fighting for their lives and their health. And what's really important is what kind of life this child is living. The passing away of a child from our world is a terrible thing for parents. It's something that... I will read what parents, one of the parents, wrote: "No one who is not a mother or a father, no one whose child was not dying on his hands knows how terrible it feels. It's like the light on earth went out, like the world was over, like there was nothing left. And that can be avoided. The compromise that was in force until the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling allowed children who had fatal defects... What does a lethal defect even mean? These are serious developmental disorders that directly or indirectly lead to the death of the foetus or newborn. And now we have a beautiful family. There's mom, there's dad, there's a lot of siblings. There's also a huge improvement in medical knowledge at the moment and we're using the research that every mother has performed during pregnancy... These are studies like a 4D ultrasound that... I'm sure most of you who listen to me have seen mouths and hands and your whole baby. Instead, a picture of a child with Patau syndrome, Edwards, with a meningeal hernia, with spinal dissipation appears. That's when you know this kid has no chance of a life. It's just a question of how horrible a man prepares him in this world to suffer at birth. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years I have worked with Prof. Tylki-Szymanska from the Children's Health Center, who led children with disabilities. I love them all, I went to a camp where there were 200 of them. These children managed to save their lives, but none of them had such a flaw that I just told them about, not one of them had. But when I talked to my mothers there, they all said that bringing them into this form was an amazing experience. Each of them loved this child, and yet if they were to make a second choice, it's hard to say what choice. They'll make it happen. Therefore, taking away women, young women... Look who you got on the streets right now. These are young people, 16, 17, 18 years old, students, there are no older people. And it's just horrible that they did it. I have the feeling that especially during the pandemic period. Then, when we should be thinking about ventilators, drugs, fighting a pandemic, people risking their health. These children and grandchildren of ours are out on the streets because they want a choice. And those kids who want to have a baby with Patau's syndrome in the future, and watch it suffer... Because I'm gonna say one more thing. You probably don't know that, or maybe you know that there is such a thing as persistent therapy. Well, you don't treat children who are doomed to death. Also sentenced to it for other reasons They go into palliative care. Do we have rest homes for such children in Poland? No. We have single houses. Soon, on November 6th, such a house will be opened in Wrocław. But that is certainly no reason to allow... The child that the mother carries in her womb cannot say: "I do not want to suffer. I don't want that pain. I don't want to go through this because there's no life in front of me. It is us, adults, based on medical knowledge, what people all over the world know, who decide that this child can come into this world, or we know that if it comes into this world, it will be one great unimaginable torment for parents, for children, and the effect will be known. And that gives you some consideration. And finally, I would like to say that a woman with an ultra-perfect organism can regenerate after extremely hard experiences, survives everything, and that's what our kids show. But not only do women strike because men are on the streets. I have a question for the women of PiS: why won't any of you ask about these children? I mean, you guys have kids, too. Do you want them to give birth to torment and to torment themselves and their children? Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Gorgon-Komor to speak in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! High Izbo! It's a time of great sadness. There is a wave of protests all over the country about the Constitutional Court ruling tightening up the anti-abortion bill. If someone does not understand this cause-effect relationship, it means that he does not look forward to Polish affairs in our country. It's so obvious to me, so simple... This was caused at the very stage of the highest incidence, at the peak of the pandemic, when there are many diseases, many deaths. It's very simple. Breaking up this very difficult compromise, and it's in the middle of a pandemic Just now, at the moment when we should be most supportive of each other, it triggered an ideological war. I'd like to say that it's a shame that two famous Polish women, Madam President and her daughter King Duda, aren't speaking right now, but they're hidden somewhere by the president or PiS activists. One would like to say that it is a pity that the great Polish lady Maria Kaczyńska, who is no longer dead, will not now bring her brother-in-law Jarosław Kaczyński, Member of the PiS, to the ground floor. I don't agree with what's going on or how it's done. Once again, the government. He failed us, showed that ideological fanaticism was more important to him than human health and happiness, put himself in the position of judge of human consciences. I am Catholic, I believe in God, but I believe that the right to decide about myself, the right to birth or to remove a sick child is an inalienable right. Not all of us are heroes, heroines who decide to be born and raise a disabled son or a disabled daughter, or to inform a child who will certainly not survive outside the womb, especially since we live in a country that cannot be supported or helped. And that is, ladies and gentlemen, a choice. Yeah, it's a choice, not a ban. It is currently trying to push protesters into a completely different context, blaming them for the increase in diseases, and it was the Constitutional Tribunal on the order of Nowogrodzka that detonated this bomb with great force of destruction. The first injury goes to women. We talk about it all the time, so I'm not going to repeat the arguments that have already been made here. The second injury goes toward the medical community, towards the gynecologists. It is today that Silesian gynecologists wrote in an open letter about the consequences of mental and physical health. They want to tell you that carrying a dead pregnancy has consequences like sepsis. And then there's death. The risk of perinatal haemorrhage or the risk of reducing the chance of another pregnancy. And these are indisputable facts quoted by medical experts. I'm not talking about the consequences of suicide among women anymore. We live in a time when we should expect the country's rulers to find a prescription for the spread of the virus. It's a pandemic that's the biggest problem today. And that they will surround us with a sense of security and communality. Meanwhile, we get a decision that tightens up abortion law. People lose their jobs, there's no doctors, there's no business. It's all for masking the incompetence of the rulers. You're talking about protesters that their language is outrageous. In fact, he's not sophisticated. But what does that mean? These women are angry at the government, at the decisions you make, at the fact that you're trying to take away their rights, their freedom and their dignity. The basis for communication is to speak to the intended recipient in a language that is understandable to him. After all, we all remember the language of Prime Minister Morawiecki in cockroach, restaurant talks. Was he sophisticated? We witnessed recent events in the Sejm, when Mr Kaczyński screamed to the MPs of the Chama rabble. We woke up demons in people, so I think these women's appeals should come to you. Therefore, today, in this emotional time, I address the protesters: dear Polish women, we are with you, but please, do not be provoked by these secret... well, people who are crowded by the PiS. Do not destroy churches, do not desecrate monuments, rather defend churches, because this is your church, the church to which you go, you are also Catholic. Absolutely not be provoked. And take care of your safety, so that no one in this country accuses you of developing a pandemic because you went out into the streets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Eve Matecka. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last days show how far we have deviated from the standards of the democratic rule of law in Poland. By disassembling democratic institutions with the Constitutional Tribunal, the prosecutor's office and the courts at the head, PiS led to a situation that we knew before 1989. The country is becoming more and more oppressive. He's pushing democracy into the streets. Moreover, once again, it leads to the finality of a woman. The analogy to the period of the Polish People's Republic can also be found in recent days incomparably more From yesterday's speech by President Kaczyński, through the blame of the opposition for causing unrest and numerous provocations, to propaganda slandering all political opponents in public media. Today's anger, today's fear of women didn't come out of nowhere It is a systematic, methodical and sophisticated effect of the gradual reduction of human rights in Poland. It is also a tribute to public insulting of other social groups, earlier doctors, teachers, judges, farmers, LGBT people or now women. Each time, social anger in this way turns out to be a new pretext for the rulers to further restrict our citizens' rights and remove them from European standards. Each time, the rulers also heat up the social moods to cover the inability that is manifesting today in the growing collapse of health care. The masking of this inability by government propaganda was no longer enough, because people eventually stopped believing in them, when they experience every day how much government misses the truth. War with women is also a smokescreen for the war against pandemic lost by the PiS. Today there are nearly 19,000 infections. Gogol once said that the lie he preached as the truth drove him mad. Therefore, I am not surprised that anger among people is growing, growing throughout the country, in all cities. Young and grown-ups, women and men, they're all together today. Where? On the street, defending women's rights In Poland, in the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I thank you very much for this resolution today, the one which we are proceding, as well as for the prepared position of the Senators and Senators of the Civic Coalition, which clearly and in strong words expresses what they feel and think all protesters in the streets of our cities and small towns, do not cease to express their opposition to the nightmares that the rulers are preparing for us, because as far as the rulers are responsible for this situation, there is no doubt that none of us have. But I want to get back to the situation a few years ago when we were together in the first protests in connection with the politicisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, and later, regularly, cyclically, of the subsequent state institutions. Speaking to the protesters at the time, I asked them why they were there, why, according to them, we're all there. There were two answers at the time. One. I heard that people are there because they are afraid of such a situation, which is beautifully described by the poem of 1942, from the last century. This poem speaks of a situation in which they came after others, and we were not behind them. And when they came for us, no one was protesting with us because there was no one left. The prophetic words were then, at that time, because then they would come and spit on judges, teachers, doctors. We were with them then, we were with different forces and powers, we supported and we continued. And today we're together again. The second statement that was repeated at that time was the words that frightened me, the words about the lack of conviction... and the question: what does the Constitutional Tribunal mean? Then the protesters... I mean, not protesters, but those who didn't participate in the protests, said that the Constitutional Tribunal had nothing to do with our lives, our everyday lives, the everyday lives of the ordinary man, that his judgments didn't apply to individuals. That's what some people thought at the time. And here it is, ladies and gentlemen, on October 22. From that day on, we experience how much some were wrong then and how much this refurbished and politically assembled Constitutional Tribunal can devastate our lives, how it can affect our life choices, our dignity. Now we know that it may expose us to inhumane treatment and torture, as we have written down in this resolution. Our protests, our common outings on the street are stronger this time in their message, but only because our endurance has been put to another test and unfortunately it has not lifted it up. About the nightmare we've been given, which I think it's all been said about... All the words have already been said, but this time they have not been spoken by politicians. We're not listening to them this time. This time we listen to the voices of mothers and fathers, future, fear-filled parents, our grandmothers and grandparents. Their traumatic and hard to tell stories tell women, tell parents who unfortunately stood before such elections. There are also families with us or abandoned, single mothers with children with disabilities, which, as you hear, some of the ladies have already talked about it. A calm voice, sometimes for the first time in their lives, often with tears in their eyes talk about everyday life with children with disabilities, about the hellishly difficult daily care of them, about how sometimes they beg for money for rehabilitation, for medicines, for equipment, for diapers, to ensure, as they say, a worthy life for their children. But they often ask, often doubt whether their lives really are worthy. Protests that have begun... I think the rulers naively believed that protests in worldview issues would cover total inability and total lack of plan to fight a coronavirus that would destroy our health and life. This time, however, the protests took on a scale that they did not expect in their naivety. They were counting on a raging pandemic, they were counting on our responsibility and consideration, that in this situation we would definitely stay home, that possible protests would be very short, that they would end quickly. But this time they were wrong and lost, and this time it's gonna be hard to stop all of this. From yesterday's speech calling directly to fight the protesters full responsibility for our lives and health I'm not afraid to say it. They're taking on the rulers. I don't know if you've seen this country, but in the cold eyes of the voicer, there was hatred and readiness for everything. I think it's literally for everything. It shocks the most because it makes you think what might happen next. Therefore, please, let us be together in these protests, express our emotions, but I'm begging you. Let us not provoke, let us not be manipulated, let us not cast out our anger, destroying churches, destroying monuments. I'm asking you to be smarter about everything we do. I ask that we be courageous, but also primarily responsible, because we are responsible for ourselves as well as for others. I'm asking you to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u222	Senator Wind, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll try to speak calmly, even though some of them screamed and were aggressive in front of me. Indeed, the situation is difficult and every word causes two more to appear, but it is difficult to remain silent and not to notice certain obvious contradictions or illogicalities. There are, of course, several groups of problems. The first, general, is the text of the Constitution and it contains the defence of life. Could the Constitutional Tribunal have said otherwise? It's already been mentioned. The second group of problems is a dispute about this state of affairs enshrined in the Constitution. The third issue is a form of this dispute. And the fourth is the attitude of politicians on this matter, in particular the politicians of the opposition, and aggression, also here today, towards the Church and the people of the Church in the congregation, towards people who are otherwise thinking, while at the same time a declaration of respect, community, democracy. There's been a lot of stuff going on around here, and it's hard to argue with everyone, even if you want to. There is no doubt that for the purposes of a narrative of appearances, various orders were mixed here, and it was recalled that the provisions of criminal law are based on religious motives. Well, they're just protecting life. Can the protection of life enshrined in the Constitution and criminal law be derived only from religious views? If that's what anyone thinks, it's very, very bad. One thought came from an aggressive narrative. Mr Kaczyński does not have the right to admit to Fighting Poland and to fight communism that he has the right to do so only by Frasyniuk and Wałęsa. Who gave you the right to say such things, Senator? I was in charge of communism, too. So? Am I not allowed to say that? Or what? You're gonna stop me from doing that? [[Kaczynski wasn't in jail.]] [[Voice from the room: Sleeping.]] Please don't disturb me. A little culture... This culture is lacking, unfortunately. [[I ask that you do not draw from the arsenal of behavior in the Sejm, e.g. from when the PiS messenger, unpunished for this, showed vulgar signs... we must behave differently than the PiS MPs and respect our adversaries. That's why I'm asking for peace.]] Thank you, Marshal, for bringing order, by the way, to the PiS. This is a great situation. Senator Jackowski carefully analyzed the text of the proposed resolution, stating that it is the indirect support of the current protests. However, I would go a step further, because when we voted on the introduction of this item to the agenda, the senators raised pages to this day's agenda. They're still hanging on some benches. It says "Women's Strike" and that weird logo. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, in this way you authorize all this barbaric brawl, these total, unimaginable vulgarities, the scale of which is not known in our society and in our culture, the physical attacks on churches, the praying people. Is that what you promised your constituents a year ago? Did you promise your constituents attacks on churches? Why aren't you holding a sign that says "Constitution" today? Prof. Zoll and Prof. Rzepliński were quoted here, with more extensive statements, as well as previous judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal chaired by Prof. Zoll. What brings such terrible hatred to everything Polish today? The sacrum of churches is violated, and there is such aggression. Well, we have heard many times the statements of those who are ashamed of Poland and its 1050-year history, this hump of history. What do you say? We'll defend the churches, but we'd prefer community and love. We would prefer communion and love, but we will defend them out of love for our ancestors, also out of love for you and those who attack them. We will pray for you and those who show this aggression. And thank you to all those who defend these churches. The fight against protesters and the defence of churches must be distinguished. I didn't notice the protesters fighting, I noticed the attack on those who defend churches. We shouldn't be passive when values are at stake. And yet the sacrum of churches is one of them. Vulgarisms in the Polish public space on such a scale... Well, that's unacceptable. I don't know what purpose this means. I don't know. I don't know. John Paul II cried out in the square in Warsaw: "Let your Spirit descend and restore the face of the earth. This land! We believed that the determination of our great John Paul II in this cry was so great that this Spirit came down and renewed the earth. But it is clear that time has passed, that power has ceased to work, and we must all cry out for John Paul today. II: Let your Spirit descend. Let your Spirit come down, O Lord, and restore the face of the earth. This land! John Paul II also spoke, especially to young people, repeatedly said that he felt responsible for this great common heritage, whose name is Poland. And we cannot, fighting for our own rights, think about the rights of another man, a neighbor, and not think about all that precedes us. Oh, my God. Protect Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u224	Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It almost turned out to be like church, but I'm gonna try to make it cold. Today, we are trying to understand the situation that we are dealing with in the country. On the one hand, there are women who have been deprived of their rights by the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, there is a power that does not understand the society on whose behalf I am exercising this authority. Women feel responsible for their families. Every day we struggle with problems and suffer the consequences of everything that is in our surroundings. Our companion is everyday, not always aware of the fear of the future of our children and the cohesion of our families. If we're having consequences, we have to have the right to decide about ourselves. Our choices determine our lives, our families and our children. I've read a lot recently about women's heroism. These words were written by scientists, journalists, social activists and politicians, but I did not meet such a formulation from women themselves. Are we heroic? No. We are a part of our society, and every day we take care of our lives, our families' lives. However, it is time for everyone to realise that we cannot be the subject of state policy and action in all areas, and we must become an actor. I saw a sad picture on one of the televisions where five sad, very important gentlemen discussed today's problems with the ruling of the TK. There wasn't a single woman there. It was considered that our opinion does not count or is insignificant. That's why young women thought they had to take matters into their own hands, and they went out into the street. Now they're accused of anarchy and the worst. No one wonders where the cause of the dispute lies. A few gentlemen with a low PESEL decided to give life to young women, and they said no. They are determined to shout it out on the street. It's just that they don't have to cry in the corners, as they imagined, so they can live their lives the way they want them not to have to be heroic. Many times I've had the opportunity to talk to women who made the wrong choices in their lives. They struggled bravely with their fate and didn't even cry because it was their choices. We cannot accept that entire generations of Poles will not have the right to their choices, even in matters concerning themselves. Today, the young generation demands real participation in decision-making. I remember a time when respect for women was expressed once a year with a carnation and a pair of pantyhose, but those days were gone forever. Unfortunately, decision-makers don't get it. As politicians, women and men, we need to realise that the changes that have taken place in the young generation and their understanding of reality are often beyond us. Therefore, we must humbly listen to the voice of the young generation and change our reality so that this young generation can find itself in this reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, today, in a time of pandemic and recession, the voice of the young generation spoke not in the Seym, not in the Senate, but in the street. This voice is loud, young people express emotions in their own way. We must do everything we can to respect this voice. If we don't, we won't be able to talk to them. And that's the most tragic thing in today's situation. I am not ashamed of Poland, I am ashamed of how her image is created at the moment. Let us not profane the words of freedom that once sounded here in Warsaw. And I saw a church defender drop a man down the stairs who wanted to get in there quietly yesterday. That's not the kind of Poland I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u226	Thank you, Senator. Please, Senator Krzysztof Brejza will speak remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say a few words that I have heard from participants and participants in many demonstrations. Of course, people have had enough, but what you hear most clearly is one word, that's the word choice. Women want to have a choice, and they must not limit it. It is not allowed to make a sadistic state from the Republic of Poland, a country whose organs become sadistic bodies, organs that persecute women, bodies such as in Central African countries or in some countries of the Middle East. The state must not be oppressive towards women, the state must not impose elementary things on women, and the life of women must not resemble life in Stephen King's thriller. What's that supposed to be? A woman gets pregnant, learns about her child's fatality, is aware that this child will die, and is forced by the PiS apparatus of the state to inform under the heart of the child, to give birth to forces of nature, not knowing whether she will give birth to a child dead or alive? She's having a baby and watching this baby die? And what's worse, and not much is said, is years of life with great trauma. That's what Senator Gorgon-Komor said about suicide. The state cannot be so cruel to its citizens. Today one of the journalists wrote that he had received such information from a doctor: we have a patient from COVID who is about to die, there is no place for him. This is the reality of Poland. And triggering a Polish-Polish war, a civil war to cover the drama that happens every day, not even in hospitals themselves, but in the driveways of these hospitals, in the vicinity of hospitals, where circulating ambulances bring people seriously ill, where there are no places and these people die in ambulances or die in homes because there are no ambulances, organizing some party militias by the head of the security committee is very dangerous, it is madness. The Head of the Security Committee should, in such a situation, organise health militias, organise staff, field hospitals, rescue the tragic situation of health protection, save citizens who die every day because they are not prepared for the second wave of epidemics. It's completely different. These events are an attempt to cover the fatal failure of the state to prepare for the second wave of epidemics, and this is what we all have to say in solidarity: enough! I would like to emphasise one more thing, and I am pleased that this will be included in this resolution. For years, as the resolution has been proclaimed, more s in the history of the Third Republic, in the previous history of Poland There were not so massive and widespread speeches of Poles and Poles on the streets, in demonstrations. These are the widest and most common anti-government demonstrations in Poland, covering not only metropolises, big cities, medium-sized cities, sub-regional cities. This is happening today mainly on the streets of many small district cities, many small towns. What does that tell you? This is, of course, due to the five-year rule of the PiS and a very deep division. And what hurts the most is that he is trying to share the Republic, that the PiS is trying to drive a wedge between Poles. Nobody's ever been so divided, no one's hurt the community of the great Republic, the republic like the PiS in recent years. But people are sick of it. What is very important, in these demonstrations there are people with very different political views, those who did not go to elections, but believe me, there are also people who voted for the PiS. Because people want to have a choice because people don't want to have total power, the kind of power that PiS politicians do. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u228	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today's debate, a long debate on the proposed resolution, these statements testify to a large political dispute on this subject and a rather difficult situation. And while much has been said, I feel obliged to speak in this matter primarily as a citizen, as a resident of this country, our country, as a former student of the Catholic University of Lublin, whose motto is Deo et Patriae Today's debate was brought about by the senators of the applicants who introduced worldview issues into the public sphere. The Senator rapporteur said that she took part in two walks. No, I think in mass walks, walks marches or walks demonstrations Which were then resolved. Yeah, the protests pretty much covered the whole country. The question needs to be asked: why? Isn't it because society is being misled? And so on. on the occasion of this judgment of the Constitutional Court relating to the Family Planning Act, the issue of protection of the foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion This was the request of a group of Members The message appears as if it were a total ban on abortion. This is not true, as has already been said in this House. And a little earlier, on the occasion of the amendment of the Animal Protection Act... since that debate, I hear almost all the time that we have passed. Let me get this straight. That cows will have to be on six-meter chains and on 12-hour walks or runways. That's not true, that's lying to reality. As I talk to farmers and listen to farmers, sometimes I hear unnecessary voices from this room, that we're about to go after the cows, that we're about to get on, I don't know, some other animals... Unfortunately, it's important to say that someone cares. For the majority of the senators in this House, the motto is the words of their mentor: there is no more important thing than removing the PiS from power. And that's what you do all the time. For a year now, as I've been observing, you've been questioning the state's constitutional institutions, state bodies. You used to like it, but now you don't like the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court. I'm sure the Ombudsman is about to... You want to lead to constitutional anarchy, disintegration, disarray of structures or institutions of the state, to chaos. You could say, "The worse, the better." The statements made at the committee's meeting also testify to this: Madam or the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. If we don't respect others, they won't respect us either. The rapporteur does not have the power to challenge the judgments of the Constitutional Court or to determine the validity of the procedure for appointing judges. The Senator rapporteur in his speech on the one hand speaks about usciturus, i.e. Nasciturus is a legal fiction that assumes conditional legal capacity. Ability since when? From conception. Because that's the legal structure of nasciturus, that's human. And in a moment, the senator says that removing a pregnancy is not killing a man. Well, in this whole situation, you can get really confused here. It is not fair to judge Mr Jarosław Kaczyński in this Chamber, not only in today's debate, but also in earlier debates and earlier speeches. What did Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński do to you? Well, he didn't do anything wrong. Did he kill someone? Did he steal from anyone? Did he do something wrong to anyone? No. It must be made clear and firm that the governments of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the governments of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in recent years have empowered society, the nation, the dignity of everyday life. Does that hurt? In the Senate, you introduce a rule: Whoever has the majority is right. Well, yeah. The math is about to work here, and the voices are going to work here, the swords, as some people say. There were all kinds of questions, the Court... That's what I want to explain, 'cause I'm gonna... To the senator of the rapporteur, as to whether or not there will be other legal conditions taken and the Court will not rule... No, it's not. I would like to say strongly that everyone knows this: the Constitutional Tribunal shall rule either in form or in formula... or in formula. I mean. upon request. The Constitutional Tribunal is not a chamber of parliament, it does not by itself amend laws or have a legislative initiative. What is contested, what is brought before the Court, only as far as the proposal is concerned... Even seeing any other irregularities, the Court cannot There are no such powers. And I'm gonna tell them and I'm gonna tell them about it. Therefore, there is no risk today that the Court is about to rule on other parts of this law. If, according to some senators, there is no Constitutional Court and there is no ruling, then why this resolution? In that case, there is no resolution, this resolution is, in the logical sense, redundant, it does not exist. But one might ask: is a resolution needed? Yeah, I think we need it. And I'm making this legislative proposal. But this should be a resolution of the following content. Title of the resolution on civil rights, without the word "limitation." And the following content, one-size-fits-all, because it is not said that the resolution is to be multi-caste: the Senate of the Republic of Poland, taking into account the situation following the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on the request of a group of Members, calls for calmness and not for a dispute to be brought on the streets. This is my legislative proposal for a draft resolution. And I want to end with Cyprian Kamil Norwid's poem. In a moment we will adopt a resolution on the establishment of next year Cyprian Kamila Norwid's song. To the land where the bread crumbs Lifting from the ground by respect For the gifts of heaven, I miss you, Lord. To the country where the blame is great Break the nest on the stork pear, ♪ 'Cause they serve everyone ♪ I miss you, Lord. To the country where the first bows They're like Christ's eternal confession: ♪ Be praised, be praised, be praised, be praised, be I miss you, Lord. I miss the other thing. Which, I don't know where the apartment is anymore, Just as innocent... I miss you, Lord. For longing and for thoughtlessness, For those who think so, not for them. ♪ Without the light ♪ I miss you, Lord. I miss it there, who's standing about me? And it has to be, but it won't be. My friend! I miss you, mister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u230	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Bad speech at the end, because actually all the content has already been passed on. Perhaps it's time for a summary. The first question is the language that the different senators used in different ways here. I think that when we return calmly to the transcript, those who have been watching this discussion will also be able to develop an opinion or just speaking about love in the language of aggression... whether it was love or just talking about love in the language of aggression. The second point is related to the role of the Senate resolution as such. I have said many times here during this term that this role is increasingly depreciated. Because if it is a resolution which is adopted by acclamation, although we do not have such a mode, but by a fundamental majority, with universal agreement This is generally the case with historical resolutions, which in some way resemble what was before, showing historical continuity. That's what we agreed on. It is worse if there are any current events in the resolution or pretext for it to be taken, because the assessment of such events is usually different depending on political views and other factors, even age or temperament. Yeah, but it's still good if there's facts in the resolution. Unfortunately, attempts have already been made I paid particular attention to this, I don't know if you remember When adopting the electoral code, where we were tried to put us on a mine when it comes to adopting a resolution based on Facebook reports, which were not supported by any facts. This resolution or this draft resolution, because it's not a legal act yet, it goes on. Unfortunately, she speaks facebook without any reference to the law. Well, maybe it'd be a certain advantage of her, but not when she was against the law. And now I'm going to refer to the text of the resolution so that it's not literal. It has already been said here: let's do it again... The Senate of the Republic of Poland is extremely concerned about the actions of the public authorities. The only answer I got was that this is about the Constitutional Court's action, let's speak directly about the judgment of this Court. But here it is presented as a position, i.e. the authors of the resolution, maybe less of its applicants, because it was changed during the work, but the authors of the resolution state that it was not a judgment, they state that it was a position. They undermine the powers of the Constitutional Tribunal. That means only one thing. One of the Supreme Authorities, constitutionally interferes with the powers of the other authority. But that also means no logic, and it's already mentioned here. Because either the Constitutional Tribunal is an organ, it gives judgments, and then, of course, it is logical to oppose such a judgment, because such a judgment has legal effects, or the Constitutional Tribunal is not an organ, it does not give judgments, it gives opinions, opinions, and that means that they cannot have legal effects. There's no middle road. And you're taking this middle road. On the one hand, you are talking about your position, and on the other hand you are saying that the Constitutional Tribunal is clearly a public authority, maybe in general: one part of the public authority. It just doesn't work that way, it doesn't make sense. Let's move on. The resolution states that the position violates the dignity of women, exposes them to inhumane treatment and torture. That's not true. The question of the dignity of women, and not only of women, in general, of man as a human being, is set out in Article. 30 constitutions. The wording is very simple and even final: "The natural and inalienable dignity of man is a source of freedom and human rights and citizens'. This is not enough: it is inviolable and its respect and protection is the responsibility of the public authorities. The basis for the dignity of women and every human being is that they are human beings. I should not mix into this religion, which is visible may not in the content itself, but in many speeches, because the constitution in its preamble says: "We, the nation of Poland All citizens of the Republic, both believers in the God who is the source of truth, justice, goodness and beauty, as well as those who do not share this faith. The Constitution is for all believers and unbelievers; all, believers and unbelievers have dignity. These two cleanups must not be mixed up because they are misled, and then false conclusions are drawn. Another flower from this garden, from this resolution. The content is merely page-by-page, but here, practically speaking, only the prepositions and conundrums agree. Principles of the rule of law and worldview neutrality and systemic changes. The former would be affected, changed, so perhaps better, because the affected has a negative connotation. There are certainly no systemic changes here, including the Court's judgment did not speak at all about the system of the Republic of Poland. This law we are talking about concerns rights and obligations. The rights and obligations of man and citizen are, of course, one of the elements of the constitution, constitutional matter, but these are not issues related to the state. And as a rule of law and worldview neutrality, I was just quoting the preamble. It is clear: the Constitution adopts the rule of law... Maybe not the rule of law, but worldview neutrality, the rule of law is in Article. 2. And you are trying to accuse the Court of the fact that he, who upholds these main constitutional principles, who examines the rest of the institutions of law in terms of these principles, including the main ones, is in breach of these principles? On what grounds? Who authorized you to do this? Even the Senate in gromio has no such right, let alone a single senator or a majority that can establish it. There are more cases like this, and I'm not gonna bully this text anymore. I'd like to explain three things while I still can, Mr. Marshal. It's a historical issue. This main law, mother, the law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion, is from 1993. Indeed, it was a compromise, but this compromise was touched, or actually broken, and this must be said clearly, in 1996, under Prime Minister Cimoszewicz's rule. I don't want to talk about the political factions that ruled anymore, let's talk about names. I'll give you an article. 1 of this bill, he explains everything. In the original version, in the law of the mother of the paragraph. 1 said: "Every human being has from the moment of conception the natural right to life. And lips. 2: Life and health of the child have remained under the protection of the law since he was conceived. Very clear wording. And then comes 1996 and art. 1 is amended. The text now states: the right to life is protected And now, attention. - including in the prenatal phase, within the limits laid down in the Act. A year later, the Constitutional Tribunal led by Professor Zoll, on grounds not from the Constitution of 1997, but from provisions that were preserved from previous legislation as constitutional provisions... The Court finds that this Article is incompatible with those provisions. The link says that... It is an article in this version that allows for statutory regulation of the protection of life in the prenatal phase. He lost power on the basis of the 1997 notice of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to the extent that he made the protection of life in the prenatal phase dependent on the ordinary legislature's decision. That's what we're talking about. It's been accepted long ago, it was 1997. It's not really a topic to discuss. In 1996, an article was also introduced. 4a, of which one point in the mouth. 1 examined the Constitutional Tribunal. So much for the facts and content of this resolution. The important thing is... We have these protests outside the windows. Protests are in many places in Poland. The question is, what should be the role of the Senate here? Should he add oil to the fire, gasoline to the fire, fuel these protests, speak well, or put them down? I think he's supposed to do away with it. This resolution, its content doesn't do it. She encourages protests. Unfortunately, it is. The question is, why? Why encourage protests? Perhaps it's about building a new founding myth? It has already been mentioned here that these are protests on an unprecedented scale. Well, it's not that good or that bad. But there's another possibility. It's just that it's clean. Sorry about the nonsense expression. An awful election fight, a political fight. Ladies and gentlemen, you haven't been able to gain power normally, democratically, by the urns. There were different stories, including a re-election deadline and a change of candidate. I'm talking about the last election. Why are you trying to take people out on the streets again? It's not like they're being brought to justice. It's the opposite. Unfortunately, this is the destruction of authority, that is, the fight against the Church. Someone's gonna say you're wrong, man. Of course I do. It was possible to listen to Senator Bosacki, Marshal Kaminski, and even the representative of the applicants, the Marshal of the SLD. It was just a uniform front. Attacking the Church. And the Church is also an authority, combining our national tissue. How can you approve of the names and interruptions of mass or... Maybe he doesn't approve. I'd say too much to say. How can names be allowed, Mass interruptions, Temple desecrations? After all, this is a continuation of the activities that we have done before and which we have observed. They were publicized, but it was as if they had died natural. It is about manifestations with desecration of the image of Our Lady of Częstochowa or hostia, it is about these pseudo-domes, I do not know what to call it, which took place on the occasion of the LGBT marches, it is about trying to connect the hierarchical church with pedophilia, as if there was pedophilia in the hierarchical church. These cases are probably the least proportionate. The representatives of the other professions, the other professions are clean? There's an attempt to target the public. Okay, here's the next chapter. Now we enter the churches, attack the faithful, interrupt the Mass, desecrate the temples. But that's how we destroy authority. Well, to me, the Church is an authority. Even if I were an unbeliever, he would be an authority, because for 1 thousand years he built Polish statehood, over 1 thousand 50 years. And one last thing... [[Senator, 11 minutes.]] Last sentence. I'm not gonna... Mr. Marshal, last sentence. Perhaps you also want to join this invasion. I don't want to use too big words. The extreme left-wing ideology, which, unfortunately, is currently winning on average in Europe and which is currently destroying old authorities, is destroying existing structures. It's supposed to be a cultural revolution. It's not China this time, it's here. But then what happens? Who's gonna rule us? Who will decide this country? Would you like to live in such Poland? Is this the kind of Poland you want to present to our children? Think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u232	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u233	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen, because the gentlemen themselves are in the courtroom. It is difficult to speak after Senator Czerwinski, because everything is always meticulously, synthetically and very wisely spoken. I have three thoughts. The first thought is this... Because here many colleagues have already spoken and various aspects of this matter have been raised. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth to say that this decision may please one and the other may not like the other, because it is a worldview decision that the Constitutional Tribunal has taken... First of all, he had the right to make that decision. Of course, I am aware that some are undermining the legitimacy of the Constitutional Tribunal, but if you follow this lead, you can question the legality of various institutions, and that will drive us into total anarchy. The Constitutional Tribunal gives very many judgments and I have not heard that they are, as a rule, deprived of legality, either by legal environments or even by politicians. This issue is a matter of world view, so of course someone might like it and may not like it, but it is a sovereign decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. I am not a lawyer, and I do not want to say and judge whether this interpretation of the Constitution that the Constitutional Tribunal has applied is good or bad. But even the lawyers on your side. I am speaking here to colleagues from the Civic Platform, such as Prof. Rzepliński or Prof. Zoll, who claim that, on the basis of these constitutional provisions, the Constitutional Tribunal could not give a different judgment. And it's a constitution you've been waving around here for five years. I don't know if you've read it. If you read it, maybe you wouldn't question it today. That's... I don't even know if you're Marshal Borowski. That's what I'm looking at in the room. He did not participate in the adoption of the Constitution, and you must have signed it by President Aleksander Kwasniewski. So they're people who have nothing to do with Law and Justice. This is the SLD, this is the PSL, this is the former Freedom Union, because this was the time when the constitution was passed. Did the Constitutional Tribunal have the opportunity to... And is it like the escape of the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński, that he was afraid to make any decisions, so he did it with the hands of the Constitutional Tribunal? Ladies and gentlemen, if we wanted to change this law, we would change it, but there was no political will in Law and Justice, and that is why there is no such amendment. However, Members, as well as Senators, have a free mandate. And Members from various clubs, because also from the PSL, and from the Confederation, signed an application to the Constitutional Tribunal to examine this issue, bearing in mind, for example, Professor Zoll's discourse from the 90th of the same year, which at a point questioned the possibility of abortion, based on the Constitution. Well, that's the case with the courts, and with the tribunals, that they only refer to those issues that are raised in a plea. At the time, the eugenic abortion wasn't lifted, so this case wasn't dealt with. Now the Court, ruling in a different composition, but with a certain constitutional continuity, a certain legal continuity Well, we're based on the same constitution, so it's hard not to have that continuity. That was the decision he made. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no exception. I'm going to give you another example, which is, you know, pro-abortion. Well, the Supreme Court in the United States is a constitutional court, and it was him, not the United States Congress, who legalized abortion with his ruling. Would you like to say that... [[Voice from the room:... Different system.]] You know, it's a different system, but... let me answer you this way, Mr. Senator: well, you'd have to read a little bit. The Supreme Court in the United States is a constitutional court. It was the Supreme Court, under a different procedure, within such a very specific legal precedent, that decided that abortion in the United States was to be allowed. And it wasn't the legislator's decision either. It wasn't Congress' decision, it wasn't the President of the United States' decision. So it is very often that common courts, and above all constitutional courts, take some kind of decisions that create a new legal situation. So that today we are dealing with a legal situation resulting from a decision taken by the Constitutional Tribunal. I understand that some may agree. This is worldview, there's no discipline here. Everyone can make a decision in their conscience, in their heart, in their understanding. But what's been going on for a few days... ladies and gentlemen, I'm already abstracting protests because I'm very much in favour of protests as such. In a free democratic country, everyone has the right to protest, everyone has the right to criticize what he doesn't like. Well, here, of course, is this very dangerous aspect of the epidemic. This is putting yourself and yourself and the whole health system at risk. I think we'll be watching another outbreak in a few days. We remember what happened on March 8 in Spain. Well, today is history. Epidemiologists say that these marches organized on 8 March in Spain, of course for a completely different reason, were a catalyst for a very difficult epidemiological situation. I'm afraid we're going the same way. But even without this aspect... and this aspect is important, because these people, even if they don't get sick or have a mild disease... Well, they're gonna take somebody's place in the hospital or a ventilator anyway. And we're already at the edge of the system's strength today. Ladies and gentlemen, these vulgarities, these names spoken of by Senator Czerwiński, are attacks on the Church. All this cannot be justified, it must be condemned. I'm just outraged by some senators' behaviors and statements. Senator Czerwiński mentioned some of the names here. Who try to justify in some way the fact that the Holy Mass is disturbed, that the doors to the churches are being destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the door to my senator's office was destroyed, the door to the building. Well, I'm not talking about the facade anymore. Grzesiek Bierecki, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, said that his office on private property was also destroyed. Do you support this? Do you support such acts of vandalism, the destruction of senatorial and parliamentary offices, but also churches? Well, there's no excuse for these people. I remember once organizing such a protest in Jelenia Góra after Trwam Television did not get a license. Well, we did this walk across town, but we didn't challenge anyone, we didn't insult anyone. I'm not even talking about destroying anything to go under the office of Members of the Civic Platform or... Yeah, that's when the Platform was running the PSL. No one came there to challenge the Members and Members of the Civic Platform or to destroy their Senators' or Members' offices. And that's what's happening today. And that's what's happening today. And, of course, you can try to say that the president's speech added fuel to the fire, and that some bishop's speech... Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with people who cynically... Maybe not, with people who break the law. I'm not saying that everyone, because there's someone walking down the street... I'm already absolving from the sanitary rules, but those who do these brawls are breaking the law. And here I have not heard a strong condemnation from you of such behaviours, such actions that threaten a certain stability in the state. Senator Czerwiński said: in a natural way, such a possibility of changing power is elections and you just have to win these elections. We've been in opposition for eight years, we've worked, we've criticized a ruling coalition, but we haven't destabilized you. We won the election after eight years. You are also in opposition today, and you have the opportunity... We lost a few choices along the way, too. I can't remember, it's been counted 10 or 11 times. I think you're seven or eight times now. Because that's what's happening in democracy. Once the Republicans win, once the Democrats in the United States. And no one can think of questioning the democratic order in the United States. It will be the same in Poland. You'll probably come to power someday, but the question is, what are the costs if we tolerate people who howl, jump, spit, challenge. Remember, this may happen to you someday, which I don't wish for. What I do not wish, because we should not cause such emotions and approve of such behaviours that have been taking place in Poland for several days in various cities, towns, and smaller towns. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u234	Thank you, Senator. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Because my name has been mentioned here, it's me in replica mode, according to the article. 48 (1) (a) 1...]] Impossible. Are you sure? [[I'm sure.]] I didn't notice. [[Voice from the room: It was.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It was mentioned.]] It was. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It was. It was mentioned.]] There you go, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u235	Senator Frozz referred to the existing constitution adopted in 1997 and referred to me as one of the co-authors, which, of course, is true. I will tell you more: I have examined the current situation and the entire Parliament And in the Seym, and in the Senate At the moment, I am the only member of the Constitutional Commission at the time. [[Applause]] Well, of course, any Constitutional Tribunal can interpret the Constitution as it plays in its soul, as its knowledge allows, conscience... It's hard to tell, isn't it? It's perfectly clear. Citizens also have the right to respond to this and to recognise that this judgment infringes their rights or that it does not affect them. But if it starts to argue, using this constitution, that it was simply not possible otherwise, that it was this constitution that forced this Court to make such a judgment, then I kindly inform you that this is a completely false view. Yes, it is. 38 says that the Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life. When we accepted this article, it was obvious that it was a man at birth. Every man... And the proof of that is very simple. Namely during the vote... As a number of amendments were tabled at the time, this article included: And one of the amendments was to add the words "from conception to natural death" after the words "legal protection of life." This amendment was rejected in a 3:1 ratio. Therefore, it is clear that the legislator at that time was absolutely not the point. So if today this Court interprets it as it wishes, then it is difficult, there is nothing we can do about it. We only add that this Court operates in a composition which is illegal It's another topic, but it's important. However, referring to this provision and claiming that he is forcing this kind of action is absolutely false. In addition, the constitution must be read in its entirety. Except for the article. 38 is Article. 30, which speaks of dignity, in which one speaks of natural dignity. Whose dignity? The fetus? Maybe so, but mostly a man living, in this case a woman. That's it. The point is that the man who lives, works, has natural dignity and authorities of public authority is written in this article They have a duty to protect this dignity. This decision of the Court certainly violates this dignity because it forces women to bear birth. Therefore, if this Court were professional I do not know whether it is a question of non-professionalism, or rather a certain religious fundamentalism, which was followed by judges, or maybe orders, because a large part of them were chosen in a certain way, we know how If he had approached it the way he should have, i.e. If he read the entire constitution, he would also consider this provision. And finally. There was much here about the fact that you can't kill children and so on. And I'm so sorry about what happened to the children of the rape victims... I mean. Not so many babies, how many fetuses? What about them? [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. What about them? Because in this case... [[You're crossing...]] Last sentence, I won't speak... [[But speak up...]] I'd take it, but I'm done... [[What you're saying is very interesting, but you're beyond the limits of correction.]] No, I'm sticking to this article all the time. [[No...]] You defend the prohibition of abortion against deformed fetuses, and you leave... You're saying no, no, absolutely, when it comes to rape victims, a woman has the right to have an abortion. And yet here we are dealing mostly with a fetus that is likely to become a living human being. It's so interesting. Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u236	Senator, you're crossing, well, you're crossing... Although I must add my correction to your correction. Well, it seems to me that I was also on the Constitutional Committee at least for a time, and I was certainly involved in the constitution. As I recall, Of course, my memory can be deluded. I've been in it. And that's a corrigendum. [[Corrigendum.]] No, no, there are no corrections because your name hasn't been mentioned. And... [[Well, I'm...]] [[Thank you, sir.]] And finally. I confirm what you said when it comes to abortion and when life begins. [[Yeah, democracy...]] Period. Senator Comfort is standing by the speaker, and time flies. [[Voice from the hall: Olek...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u237	I would like to congratulate both senators on their longevity in this Senate. But I'd also like to say... [[It wasn't in the Senate...]] ...that during your replicas I myself became much older, so they took a while. [[Just one sentence. Mr. Marshal, I want to correct.]] Mermaids and thousands of people... It happened that I had to get to the Senate an hour ago. Indeed, what is happening on the streets of all Polish cities, what is happening in Warsaw, is extraordinary. And the thesis expressed in this resolution is true, that there have been so violent, so spontaneous, so powerful protests for a long time. I didn't want to speak in this debate because I think women should talk about these things. That was my assumption today, when I was holding a committee meeting, that was my assumption at the beginning of this discussion. But of course, the reliable Senator Czerwinski... [[Who's not a woman.]] ...who, as Marshal Borusewicz tells me, is not a woman, as usual he provoked me to come back. But before I go to what Senator Czerwiński was talking about, I must address, unfortunately, very seriously, what Senator Komorowski said. A summary of the two cases you've compiled, i.e. Kaczyński's Fridays with this sentence... I really think there's nothing worse than the way the senator read Norwid. The comparison of women's hell with the Animal Act is a truly tragic figure of rhetoric. And I would just like to say, Mr. Senator, that in the case of the Animal Act, a few of you have broken out yet. You had the courage to say non possumus, we can't. And when it comes to women, you don't have that kind of courage. When I listened to your colleagues here talking about President Kaczyński voting with the lefties, I thought: something is waking up. But nothing woke up today, and I can see he's not waking up. And in the context of what I started with, I would like to ask where the voice of women, Senators of Law and Justice in this debate is. Did you guys notice that you're the only ones talking about it? No Senator of Law and Justice has spoken in this debate. [[She made a statement to the minutes.]] Did she make a statement to the record? It's something completely different. And you know, Mr. Senator, this is something completely different. [[I'm talking about facts.]] And I want, since Senator Komorowski has combined these two laws... I apologize, the bill and this sentence, which, in fact, as we have said here, is a change of law in Poland, to say that today was a wonderful meme. And that's what you're afraid of. Well, there was a picture of the palace of culture and a signature: The young Warsaw woman will meet the farmer with a tractor. We meet in Warsaw on October 30th. Because you know the senator is coming here to protest on the same day. You've managed to unbelievablely crash into two or three weeks with two electorates and piss people off so that you can hear their anger outside. I'll go back to what Senator Czerwinski said. Mr. Senator Czerwinski repeats all the time... I repeat a few things over and over again, but Senator Czerwiński repeats the question of who is entitled to judge the constitutionality of the bill, and always answers that the Constitutional Tribunal. Then he asks why we dare to question the constitutionality and validity of the latter position, because I do not call this position a judgment, this is the position of colleagues, colleagues of Mrs. If, Senator, in this House a marshal, who is of our majority... If, due to some unfortunate accident or other random event, three senators on our side disappeared and if the Marshal would suddenly allow No elections, no nothing, or he'd say there were some choices, three people, and he said they were senators, and he included each of them as the voice of a full senator, would you be waiting for a ruling? Would you stand on this platform if such a man came here and said that he would vote here, and that you would get him out of this room? If someone puts their hand in your pocket and pulls out your wallet, do you need to find out from the D.A. that this is stealing? No, you can yell on the street that this is stealing. And we have the right to say that what happened, with your support, with the Constitutional Tribunal, is a granda and a scam. We're allowed. And I don't need anyone's permission to do that. And by the way, I didn't hear your objection when Prime Minister Szydło didn't publish the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was the composition of which nobody I repeat, no one. He didn't have the slightest doubt. Because I was told by your colleagues that I abstained when there were these changes that you questioned about the Constitutional Tribunal, the possibility of choosing three judges more quickly. Because I was able to say that I believe that, after all, it was confirmed by this supposedly, as you can say, our Constitutional Court that this is questionable. And it would be nice if, when you were really serious about it, you said sometimes: I disagree. Three colleagues from the previous squad The Senators Bobko, Stanisławek, sometimes could say that they disagreed that they had other... [[None of them are anymore...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] And they're gone. And they're gone. [[But they have a face.]] You spoke to the senator about the authority of the Church... [[Mr. Senator, there's no more...]] I'm just finishing up... If you'd let me finish with the marshal... Because you took my marshal about two minutes at first... [[No, no, I've been counting since you started talking.]] And now the next one... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You spoke here about the authority of the Church. There it is. But you know very well, senators, you know very well what that general authority is like. Is this about the church whose representatives burned down the Alexandrian Library and murdered Hypatia? I take it you didn't. [[God, no.]] [[People have been dead so long.]] Is this about the church that convicted Giordan Brun? Oh, no. Or the one who was silent during World War II? [[Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz:But, Mr. Senator...]] Let's not push the authority so hard... Maybe more people than institutions, because these institutions are very often unreliable. And one last thing. I would also like to say this to you. Do you know who the pendant was, and this is kind of the point of what we're talking about? Who was sitting in the SOP limo that came in... collided with the citizens on the tram two days ago? [[I heard there was a professor.]] No. Apparently, according to what I read here, Judge Pavlowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u238	Thank you, Senator. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, because I've been listed several times as corrigendum...]] Mr. Senator, please, please, just stick to this form. Okay? [[Yeah, I'd like one thing...]] So this isn't a speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u239	Yes, yes, yes, no speech, Mr. Marshal. I'm criminal. I would just like to explain to Senator Pociej that I questioned not the choice of 2, not the choice of 3 excess, I would call it, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015 by the parliament of that previous term, but the choice of 5. Fortunately, there are protocols. And I was talking about it in a very clear way, I wasn't hiding from it. I believe that the five members elected by the parliament of that term of office... These 5 persons elected as members of the Constitutional Tribunal were elected unlawfully. The fact that the Constitutional Tribunal has patted, so it is called, 2 members and 3 have contested, is a completely different matter. I have spoken for a very long time about this sentence. You can find it, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Maciej... [[Voice from the room: Marcin.]] Excuse me. ... Senator Marcin Bosacki. Five minutes. [[Voice from the room: I'll have five minutes too.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to comment on a few comments from the PiS senators. First of all, it's about who's cutting themselves off from what and who's not cutting themselves off from what. You have accused us that we are not cut off from acts of vandalism at temples, monuments or in connection with entering temples. That's not true. In my speech, there were also several other Senators of the Civic Coalition, including. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. We cut off from it, we say you can't cry after church or interfere with church services. Right after I got off this platform, on social media, I published a condemnation of the anointing of the monument of the Underground State, here, 200 meters away. And you know what? ♪ When I'm ♪ I have published, the organizers of the demonstration have already blurbed this inscription, for which I thank them very much. Because it's in absolute majority, in 99.99% The great, great national breakup of the majority of citizens and citizens against the power against which one must rebel. But, of course, either extremists join it, or just people who are completely unintelligible, and we condemn them. And now I have a question for you: did you condemn smoking dolls of famous politicians, including the President-in-Office of the Republic of Poland, about 30 years of marches of high school students burning dolls of Jews or flags of the European Union? Let me remind you that this is our flag, we are in the European Union and this is our flag. Did you condemn it? Attacks in subsequent election campaigns at the Civic Platform rally, including with the participation of Prime Minister or President-in-Office Ministers? I remind you of these attacks in Bialystok. Did you condemn calling the traitors of the current Prime Minister or calling the condominium of our homeland by the president of your formation? Did you condemn it? Now do you condemn spitting or raiding peaceful demonstrators by e.g. TVPiS cars or a car where, as it turns out, there was an ABW officer? Do you condemn it? I didn't hear you. Second note. Words have come out here that we're attacking the PiS, that while we're on the case, It's a very complicated case, so it's okay. The ruling of the Constitutional Court is an attack on the PiS. Yes. We really believe that you are the most harmful to the fate of the Republic of Poland by the ruling team since 1989. Investments have been the smallest in 25 years. You haven't completely prepared, even though you've had time, a country for a pandemic, and thousands of people are dying because of it. You're not helping the economy. You have destroyed, devastated the institutions of the state of law: the Constitutional Tribunal, the National Court of Justice, at this moment the Supreme Court, of course the prosecutor's office and the services specially and diplomacy. That's what we think. And we won't be ashamed of it. You should be ashamed of the state in which the Polish state is currently in. And finally, the last remarks, I'm going to mention him by name. Senator Wind. Because I respect him, also for what he said, which means he was in a state of war in a communist crime. Senator Wind was right to mention patriotism. He even said, "May God protect our homeland." I agree with that. May God protect our homeland. No matter how each one of us defines this god, a higher power. I hope she takes care of us. Actually, I think with Senator Wind, we think it's the same God. But there are those who think they're a god of someone else. And they have the right in our Republic to live and be happy. Well, between us there is a dispute about what Polish patriotism is supposed to be like... Because I'm not denying you patriotism, I just think you're blinded by a man who really destroys our homeland with his obsessive obsessions. That's the last sentence. We want this model of patriotism really to be for everyone, so that this model of patriotism is based, like for hundreds of years, over the last decades, for example. in the history of Solidarity, freedom, diversity and brotherhood. And unfortunately, you support what your president is doing right now, dividing Poles and causing a state on the brink of civil war. I remind you: he said yesterday that if you lose, it will actually end the history of the Polish people. That's a quote. And he called upon your followers, not uniformed servants, to go out into the street. [[Thank you, Senator...]] It's really bad. Cut it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u242	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grażyna Morawska-Stanecka will now speak. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Gabriela, Mr. Marshal, Gabriela.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I'm really asking for your forgiveness. Of course Gabrielle. I don't know why I was wrong. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I don't know. I think you're the marshal of some Grażyna...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the overwhelming impression that every day we wake up in some new reality, in fact a progressive conflict, from which probably none of the rulers yet realized the consequences. I ask this question as a Polish woman, as a lawyer, as a senator, for whom 64 thousand voters voted. And 64 thousand voters probably ask themselves the same question: is Poland still the same country? But I also ask myself the second question: who started this storm? Have women conspired to fight boredom for no reason, or have they responded to an unprecedented attack on their own dignity and the right to decide their own lives? Did these protesting women pass by the church and simply decide to enter it, or were they already outraged, because they feel powerless because the Church's representatives contest their role in society and their subjectivity? Or did the Left messengers decide to go from boredom to the Seym Tribune, say something and protest? No, it's not. It is the responsibility of the rulers, of the authorities, of those who hold the governments of this country today. This is the result of policy action, which is understood as a policy of bread and games. The bread is getting less and less, but you can always do the games. And then we can't talk about negligence in the fight against the pandemic? Or maybe because of your vacation. I would like to stress: through your vacation Is it possible to turn the public's eyes away from the economic crisis? Or can we forget about the moral corruption of this power for a moment? One of the senators here said about jumping and vulgarism, and after all, someone once started it all, someone started it. Someone started to deny the voice of Members of the opposition in the Seym, someone started to turn off microphones, someone started undemocratically restricting speech time, someone started to turn off microphones at committee meetings and not to allow discussion, someone finally started talking about riffraff, treasonous murders and other things. Someone started all this. Why don't you answer the question? No, unfortunately, the ladies of Law and Justice are not here. Who did this? Ladies and gentlemen, there is an old Polish saying, probably not only Polish: who is sowing the wind, it collects the storm. The classic once said about opening a can with Pandora, of course I deliberately say so, I quote. Someone opened that can. But this time it's been miscalculated because the wind of history, which has been set up, is blowing faster and stronger. And it's blowing in your direction. Just now, a representative of your coalition officer was talking about how people don't go out on the streets because they're being agitated. As the politicians of the PIS say, Only because they are simply outraged by this judgment. That's what the man from the Jarosław Gowin Agreement said, you can check it out. This wind blows and breaks the wall you've surrounded. And that will put you in a position when you finally have to take responsibility for your actions. And from here I accuse the rulers, accuse them on behalf of millions of free citizens and citizens... In a democratic state of law there can be no consent and there can be no room for games, which Jarosław Kaczyński wants to watch in the second row. It is the rulers who are responsible for today's protests, it is the rulers who have been starting it since 2015. By restricting the independence and independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, as has already been mentioned several times here, so I will not repeat this by essentially plowing the courts... People have waited a long time for judgment, and it was necessary to reform the judiciary, only that it was necessary to do so brazenly, and the Government of Law and Justice did so clumsyly. And people today have been waiting years for a trial, not just for a conviction. You should have found professionals who knew how to do it. But no, because it was supposed to be the games. And it was you who created divisions, built up, raised hatred for one another, rebelled, and heated some against other groups of society. First refugees, then non-heteronormative persons, judges, teachers, and parents of people with disabilities. I remind you that in the Seym there was such a protest once, for 40 days it lasted. Marshal Kuchciński forbade these people from using toilets, blocked access to toilets. This is taking care of the dignity of people with disabilities? Where's the place for dignity? Which of the Members or Senators of Law and Justice, who of the Messengers or Senators... Did you go in there and talk to these people? I saw once, Mrs. Krynicka, I suppose... Who went down and leaned over the fate of these people? Who gave them any support? Nobody. There's one more thing. The cynical inclusion in the fight of the Church, of course at his own request, is a sign of weakness, because the power that defends itself in the monastery walls against its own society is the power of failure, the power that fear looks into the eyes. And here there is no hope of salvation, because right is on the side of the silent ones, the majority who have so far been silent, the majority who have now shown themselves and clearly emphasizes their opposition. So that I have an appeal to you: do not hide behind the caskets, behind the habit. Don't tell me it's an attack on the Church, because it's not. Don't dig into churches and defend these churches because there's nothing to defend them from. People have no intention of attacking them. Have the courage to look into the eyes of a free Polish society, including a new generation, a young generation, which simply said quite enough. Try to look them in the eye and do something about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u244	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to say one sentence of correction, because Mr. Marshal did not give me this opportunity then and he corrected Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement himself. By simplifying this statement by Marshal Borowski... Well, I didn't say that this was my interpretation, only the interpretation of many lawyers, including Prof. Zoll, who claim that such a provision of the 1997 Constitution entitles the Constitutional Tribunal in this composition, which is, to such an interpretation. I don't know if it's a good interpretation or a bad interpretation. I'm not a lawyer. But I think Professor Zoll, who was also an advocate of civil rights, and a member of the Constitutional Tribunal, seems to be some sort of expert on constitutional law. It was only supposed to be one correction, but because I was not allowed to present this correction, and on the way there were 2 speeches that amazed me Ladies and gentlemen, here are some corrections. The kind of stuff that you don't need in this discussion, the kind of stuff that someone didn't run for... Well, ladies and gentlemen, here some of our colleagues' names fell. There were various reasons why colleagues did not start, and this is neither the place nor the time for such a public discussion. As I recall, about 1/3 of the Civic Platform Club from the previous term did not start the Senate either. I don't know what the reasons were, but I wouldn't insinuate or stand them up because you didn't want to or didn't want to run. So I would very much ask that you do not insinuate or speak for those on our side who did not take off for various reasons, either, because you would have to ask them first. That's the first line. Second line. Well, some sort of discovery of Senator Pociej, who was driving in that limo? Well, Professor Pavlowicz, judge of the Constitutional Court, was driving. And what's so important about it that the driver crashed into the tram there? All you have to do is wish your health and be happy that nobody's hurt, not get some giant stuff out of it. If you're trying to attack a professor out there, and you're doing it permanently, it's no wonder he has SOP protection, like many politicians or many people who feel threatened. If the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration considers that such protection may be granted by the SOP in accordance with the rules of law. I don't know why there's so much stuff going on, almost like a bombshell, what happened... Well, it's bad that there's been some kind of collision, an accident, but the professor of that car wasn't driving. Well, we can still make a didascala... But these are kind of side lines. I'm a little frightened by what your Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka said. So much, in my opinion, various illogical things she said in her short speech, that I just embarrassed some things. Of course, you can remember things, who did what, who said what. I could also talk about the PiS locusts, as Schetyna said, about catching a pack, as the cultural man from Oxford said. Well, here we can forget all kinds of speeches. But today we're in a particular situation, in a situation where people on the streets in certain emotions... I do not deny them the right to express their views, to disagree with different solutions, or with this ruling of the Court, but I refuse them the right to such an insult. After all, it's even TVN tells us that you can't play anything, because there's one big curse. Well, we don't approve. Your marshal says, let's not hide behind the priests' caskets. I don't know who's behind the priests' caskets to protect, but we want to protect the churches, Mrs. Marshal. Why? It is precisely because these churches are being attacked. It is sad to say that churches are being attacked in Catholic Poland in the 21st century. And this is not the invention of Senator Krzysztof Mroz or someone from PiS or the president of Jarosław Kaczyński or Senator Czerwiński. Unfortunately, there are examples described on the Internet when churches are destroyed. There are photos, Mrs. Senator, maybe you don't browse the Internet or watch TV on which you can see that churches are just destroyed, in the sense of scribbling, spit on. Well, it's unfortunately reality, and we're protesting it. And that's what President Jarosław Kaczyński was talking about when he spoke to the members of Law and Justice, and he has the right to do this as head of Law and Justice for our voters: to defend these churches against people who just destroy them. Everyone has the right to agree with a priest, to go to church, not to go to church, to believe, not to believe, to criticize a bishop either, but to destroy these temples, to disturb older people who have come to Mass... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...even if this is Mrs Biggus... I'm sorry, I don't remember the first name. It doesn't authorize her to come in, so to speak, so to speak, to the church, to interrupt the Holy Mass... [[Six minutes, Mr. Senator.]] Mrs. Marshal, it would be good for you to read a little online and see that these churches are unfortunately being attacked. And that's why we're defending them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u246	Thank you very much. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ad vocem. Mr. Marshal, ad vocem, because the senator has been addressing me the whole time, I'd like to remind you...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u247	In this debate it has been said several times that we do not approve of vandalism. Unfortunately, however, the entrance of politics to the church took place much earlier, when ONR, when pseudo-Sister Miedlar, who is now suspended, but before he was a priest, someone gave him ordination, shouted anti-Semitic slogans in churches. When Prime Minister Emilewicz encouraged me to vote for Andrzej Duda from the pulpit in Częstochowa. [[But that's not true, that's not true.]] When you were in the churches, and you were running your campaigns there. Check it out. That's when you violated the sacrum. Of course, I don't justify acts of vandalism, warn people and tone them down so they don't, absolutely not. But unfortunately, an example of the violation of sacrum came from that side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Marek Komorowski. You're welcome. [[Time doesn't matter until I get there, not like...]] Well, no, it's just when you start talking, we're counting the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! Senator and Senator friends! Well, here's what I'm gonna say: I respect Senator Pociej, but I'm gonna say he doesn't like me. And in his speech, I'd say his profession was breaking through. He's a patron. He can interpret things differently than they say. I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that I did not compare women and their situations to the situation of animals or to that law. I merely stated that, as in the case of this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, other facts can be given and can be interpreted as meaning that it is a ban on abortion in the country at all, so in the case of another law it can be interpreted that it is a ban on any breeding at all. These were just examples that you can interpret things from different laws. It can be interpreted that horses cannot be bred, etc., etc. This isn't comparing one thing to another. I'd never be tempted to do that. All I can tell you is that from Senator Bosacki's speech... Well, it's a good thing he didn't accuse us of lack of patriotism, as if on the other hand he didn't accuse us of it, other things he's accusing us of... As far as patriotism is concerned, we have tried to make some resolutions here several times. Here I may have noticed myself that perhaps it was also necessary for today's session of the Senate to introduce a special resolution connected with the death of the blessed Fr. George Popieluszko, because in two days we have the anniversary of finding a priest's corpse. But I may also have an objection to myself that I did not propose such a resolution, hoping that someone else would have such a resolution... And let's think about this situation. We do not hide behind hats or cloaks, but we must defend the good name of the Church. I would just like to remind you that it was thanks to the Catholic Church that we survived the partitions, the entire period of the partitions. The preservation of Polishness, Polish language, tradition, etc. This is due to the work of the Catholic Church. Well, that's pretty much it. Oh, and, uh, finally... Because here in the speeches was the person mentioned by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Then I would like to say strongly that Mr Jarosław Kaczyński does not harm Poland, does not harm Poles and does not act against Poles. You can't interpret it like that, just in such statements, etc., etc. As a Member, as a citizen, as a Head of the Party, he also has the right to present his position and views. And we have to respect that. I think I'd like to stay that way for all of us. It depends on the welfare of Poland, and if we are talking about 2 chambers, the Chamber of Parliament and the Senate, it is a place of political dispute. I'm not offended, because this is the place to articulate all kinds of opinions, not the street is this place. That's why I made a motion, even though I signed a motion to reject this project, the second application. If this first motion had fallen, there would still be a chance to show that Parliament, that it is the Senate, that the Upper House can stand as if above all and simply appeal to end this dispute that is going on on the street, because at some point it can get out of control, at some point we may not be able to control what will happen on the street. We all have to stand above everything and appeal for peace. That is why I have tabled this additional legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u250	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to start by saying Senator Komorowski, who said I didn't like him. I would like to assure you, Mr. Senator, and I think I have repeatedly made it clear that I like you and I respect you and we have spoken repeatedly. But Senator Komorowski also said that in my speech a patron comes out of me. Well, for a patron, that's pretty... I'm not even gonna take this as a plea, because if you're telling me that counsel is coming out of me, that means it's got to be commendable, so I can only thank you for that. I forgot to mention one thing at this moment in the debate between Marshal Borusewicz and Marshal Borowski. I would like to condemn those attacks that Senator Frost spoke of today at the senator's committee meeting... and I forgot the name... of the senator from Law and Justice. I'm sure he doesn't agree to such physical aggression. I understand the rage of Poles, because recently she was really awake, step by step she was awakened and exploded at the moment. She's not random, she's really caused by deep levels of irritation. However, I absolutely believe that there can be no consent from either side of this conflict to direct physical aggression. About what Senator Czerwinski said... Mr. Senator, I wasn't talking about how you felt about the Constitutional Court. I absolutely didn't try to explain anything other than what you said in your replica. I was talking about myself, not you, I'm sorry that I focused on myself, and this time not on you, Senator, but I was talking about me. I only said one thing: that at the time I was able to vote differently, in that case, in the case of three extra judges... And I just said that I'd like to... Because when there was a discussion about the Supreme Court, you remember the senator exactly. They were the same ministers of justice who laughed at our arguments, came a month later and reported exactly what they had rejected a month before and what was proposed by our Legislative Office. That's what happened. And that's why I said that I missed a few speeches in that term, which today critics of our majority, sometimes right to believe. And that's all I said. But, God forbid, I didn't say Mr. Senator spoke differently about these five judges and about this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u252	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Me too.]] Are there any corrections? [[No, I have some more to say.]] Oh, it's Senator Sekuła. There you go, Senator, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with great attention to this debate, which seems to be going to the end, and I think that its tone is missing ideological and political threads, and let's put them aside. However, it shows that this debate was needed. It was necessary for us to outline the area of discussion. I do not want to have a substantive discussion here at the moment, but I would just like to draw the attention of all those who have spoken about the constitutional judgment to wait with their final courts for the written justification of this judgment. For a very simple reason: because there have already been overinterpretations here, which is allowed, as the Court referred to. We know all this with oral reasons, necessarily shortcuts. Knowing the work of the Court, no matter who thinks about the Court, we know that there is, however, a procedure, there are expertise, there are positions, there are analyses, there is a reference to the case-law. These are all months of hard work. It is not that it lasted a few hours, the parties were heard and simply said what was said. I therefore think, because of the seriousness of this House, that it is premature to push too far forward at the moment. In fact, it is also premature to discuss the substance of this decision. The point is that we can relate to the whole argument that, so to speak, led the Court when it took such a sentence rather than another one. And this is the first statement. Two: I want to say that as a believer, as a Catholic, it hurts if I watch pictures on TV. But I didn't just see them on TV. That involves violating religious feelings, vandalism, emotional violence against believers, vulgarism. I don't think so. And I wouldn't want it to feel that way. The opposition, which has a majority in the Senate, justifies such acts in public space, including infringements of the law, and may be at risk of being Penalized. I don't want to speak here, it's not my role at this point. I don't believe it. I'm skipping attacks on parliamentary or senator offices. My office in Ciechanów has also been attacked and there are material losses. I guess the High House doesn't approve. That is why I propose two amendments to the text of this resolution. At the end of the fifth paragraph, which ends with the words "as well as the manifestation of civil attitudes', I propose to add: we condemn acts of desecration of churches, violations of religious feelings, acts of vandalism which were subjected to sacral objects, and emotional violence towards believers; we condemn acts of vandalism which were subjected to parliamentary and senatorial offices of parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland. I'm putting a marshal in your hands. It's a little illegible... I'm gonna help the legislators because I wrote it by hand, but these are the two amendments I want to make. And I would very much ask the High House if it had happened that the best thing could not have been done at all to avoid proceding... If this proposal had not passed, then we would have voted on it. I believe that this will be the answer about the intentions of the authors of this position or this resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u254	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the statements, I came to the conclusion that in order to be able to check whether a legal abortion can be carried out in Poland, one needs to be raped. The discussion went in a very strange direction, and this strangeness lies in the fact that no woman representing the right side of our House took part in this discussion. Therefore, one might ask: how many men were forced to decide on abortion? Once again, it turns out that women have no voice and must be represented by men. In addition, it is the first time that the debate on such a serious subject should involve an element of faith in order to cut off a rational discussion. Religion does not give freedom and should not take freedom away from those who think differently. Freedom belongs to citizens, not to Christians, Muslims, or Jews. It belongs to people who think and want to make choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u256	Thank you very much, Senator. Oh, and you... There you go. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking again because I would like to address one point that many of my previous speakers have raised, namely the allegations that the government is not helping families, mothers raising children with disabilities, including pregnant women. I completely disagree with that. I am surprised that you are speaking on the left in a case in which you did so little before 2015. Meanwhile, the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is the first government to conduct a comprehensive family-friendly policy. In his actions he does not forget pregnant women and families affected by a child's severe illness. Not long ago in the Sejm, we had a speech by Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family and Social Policy, who presented a lot of hard data in this regard. First of all, it is the Life Programme, which aims to support pregnant women and their families and to support families with disabled people and, in particular, children with disabilities. These are the first comprehensive solutions to support pregnant women. Already at an early stage of the child's life there is help for families, conditions for rehabilitation are created and housing support is organized. Special assistance is directed at pregnant women with complications. The programme includes funding for diagnosis and prenatal therapy, developing a network of homes for mothers with minor children and pregnant women, providing assistance to schoolgirls during pregnancy, strengthening the position of family assistant. In 2019 the care of the family assistant was covered by 41.3 thousand families, where 95,5 thousand children were raised. The programme also introduces an additional benefit of PLN 4 000. It can be used when a child is born with severe and irreversible disability or incurable illness that threatens his or her life. Only until September 2020, the government paid nearly 2 000 900 benefits for over PLN 11 million. Last year, 17,4 million PLN went to Polish families as part of this activity. The programme shall provide comprehensive and comprehensive health care for pregnant women, childbirth and childbirth, with particular regard to the situation of complications and risks to the mother and the child. The National Health Fund finances benefits based on contracts concluded in the framework of coordinated care of pregnant women. By the first half of 2020, 19,000 623 women were already included in this form of care. The total value of the benefit was PLN 177,8 million. Early disease is also diagnosed and treats children born with severe dysfunction. In 2019, 540 children were taken care of. In the first half of 2020, 422 patients were cared for. What needs to be stressed is the fact that our government First Prime Minister Beata Szydło and then Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki It is the first government to conduct a comprehensive family-friendly policy. In his actions he does not forget pregnant women and families suffering from severe child disease. In May of this year we had information that since the beginning of the program the family of 500+. Now it is about 120 billion PLN, and we have a number of other programs such as Good Start, Little+ and Large Family Card, where families and single mothers receive huge support. Saying that the government does not support families, mothers with disabled children and pregnant women is not reflected in the facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u258	Thank you, Senator. I'd like my five minutes and my second speech. High Izbo! I thought, in a situation of such intensity of opposition and demonstration... There's a helicopter circling over us. If anyone has a car here... I don't think anyone's gonna be able to leave here until midnight because the Senate and the Sejm are blocked by demonstrators. [[Voice from the room: We'll hang out.]] This is the situation. This situation would require a solution. Such a proposal should come from the government, from Law and Justice, because it is the Law and Justice that governs, because it is the Law and Justice that has the majority in the Sejm. There should be a proposal here to help you get out of the situation you've caused. ♪ 'Cause there's no need to fool yourself ♪ This was your application to the Court. No one will believe that around 100 Members of Law and Justice were able to make such a request without the approval of the management. But there's no proposal here. But there are other proposals, dangerous proposals. I repeat: that the leader of the government group, who is also the Deputy Prime Minister, calls for the formation of groups of church defenses, i.e. the formation of militias... This information was given earlier by the editor Sakiewicz, who said that the Polish Gazeta clubs organized themselves to defend churches. It is the police's duty to defend churches, monuments, whatever the police are destined to do, and its role is to intervene and defend in the event of any attacks, so as not to allow such situations. I hope, once again, that the appeal of the Deputy Prime Minister, who is responsible for security and who is also the President, President of Law and Justice, will not be heard by members and supporters of Law and Justice. I'll say that a situation like this has happened for the first time in our history since 1989. On this... [[Voice from the room: Senator Nutchowska.]] Good. Senator Nutchowska reporting, remotely. There you go, Senator, speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u259	Hello, everyone. I wasn't going to speak because, actually, most of the speeches I was going to address were already here... But since you've repeatedly said that no woman in the PiS has spoken, I do so at your request. You are all aware that the constitution is not open to discussion, that if any constitutional rights are established, then the whole rule of law should comply with all of this. Everyone knows that the Constitution protects life from conception to death, that there are legal norms, I have already talked about them at the stage of questions that protect the child also in the womb. It is appalling to spread hatred for my group. Wherever there are protests, they're not material protests. I'm not talking about the vulgarities that are used and which are completely unacceptable. Everywhere you can hear: we came here to overthrow the government by our democratically elected way, and we came here to destroy the clergy, to destroy the Church. It's a forceful action... I answer to the senator that the office one senator was talking about is my office, but many offices have been so damaged and there have been a lot of aggression directed at churches, many damage to the facade. The fact that believers consist of rebuilding the church, to preserve this culture, which in many cases has survived many centuries, and now through these attacks of barbarians, because only that can be called, is destroyed, does not justify that anyone who comes and suddenly thinks of something can destroy it. We're not here to argue, we're here to create a new law, a good law, and that's the only reason I'm taking the floor. I ask you one thing, to silence all these emotions, that if you ask someone for protests... Why not? Everyone has the right to protest, but worthy, decent. Teaching children and young people rudeness, insults and intolerance, because that's all you teach, is completely unacceptable. Now explain to me why you all suddenly took off these T-shirts that say "Constitution." This constitution was so important to you when you could report anything else and make a fuss. And why is this constitution suddenly invalid when any law is contrary to your views? That's why we're here to be different, and that's why we're here to argue with each other, but certainly not to escalate violence. And I'll tell you one thing: it's a resolution that was made on my knee, in my opinion it's a rubble, and I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u260	Thank you, senator, for the declaration. Senator Andrzej Dunin... [[Voice from the room: Arthur.]] Arthur, Arthur Dunin volunteered. Here you go, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u261	Welcome. Can you hear me? Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, please, you can hear very well.]] Thank you very much... [[Oh, you're the one with the Constitutional T-shirt.]] Of course I do, and I'm not breaking up with her, and I'm at the protests, too. Please, all senators, I have a great request: don't use such words that the Constitution says that it is not allowed to be conceived... that there is such a provision in the Constitution. Because he's not here. Read the constitution. Read the constitution. The so-called judgment. The Constitutional Tribunal under the leadership of Przyłębska, this is simply a mockery. And I will be at those protests even though President Kaczyński challenges me... Who's he calling me? Remind me. Yeah, that's how I'm gonna be, to the end, with women, with all the Poles who are sick of PiS and that arrogance. I'm sick of it. And I will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u262	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators... [[Voice from the room: Senator Brejza.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hit it, did I? [[Voice from the room: No, now, at this moment, he volunteered.]] It's too late, Senator. I've closed the discussion. For the record, Senators Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Małgorzata Kopiczko and Rafał Silesian made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals were submitted in writing by a group of senators: Marek Martynowski, Jerzy Czerwiński, Stanisław Gogacz, Andrzej Pajak, Marek Komorowski, Jan Maria Jackowski and Aleksander Szwed. [[And Marek Borowski.]] In addition, Senator Marek Komorowski submitted an individual application for the draft resolution. In addition to this, you have tabled amendments to the resolution by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Marek Borowski. Since the third reading would only cover the vote... No, no. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights of the Rule of Law and Petitions. I propose that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. There are no votes against. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u263	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Message one. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of the requests submitted at the 17th Senate meeting for the Act on Electronic Service (Senat) No 226 senat print will take place today, 45 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment, in room 182. Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted at the 17th Senate meeting for the draft resolution on the limitation of civil rights will take place today, 45 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment, in joint rooms 176 and 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u264	I'm declaring a recess until 9:15 p.m. today. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 40 to 21 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u265	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I would like to inform you that according to the opinion of the Seniors Convention, the next session is scheduled to be held on 25, 26 and 27 November 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. Unofficially, I will inform you that there may still be an additional sitting in the middle of November if the Sejm adopts one of the covid laws. Just a heads-up, because it's still through the Seym and ahead of us. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate Committee. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 240. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u266	If you don't mind, sir, it's on the spot. [[Absolutely.]] Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs at its meeting on 27 October pursuant to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismisses Senator Paweł Arndt, Senator Andrzej Pajak, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Wojciech Ziemiak from the Extraordinary Committee on Climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u267	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate Committee. We would like to return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Electronic Service Act. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 226 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission at its meeting on 28 October following the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on Electronic Service (Senator Print No 226) supported the proposals, amendments in the number 118. I ask the High House to accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Jan Hamerski and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I don't see any calls. Thank you. Then we'll proceed... [[At the same time, I move that you can vote in the block...]] We'll take care of that, Mr. Senator. I'll be announcing it in a minute. [[Thank you very much.]] We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. I ask you to focus, because the committee and the legislators have blocked some of the amendments so that it is worth paying attention to the text. If the High Senate authorizes me to do so, I will not read the justification for these amendments, only their numbers. I don't see why not. Thank you very much. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 4, 12, 13... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, offer this block now.]] [[Main Legislator at the Legislative Office at the Senate Office Jakub Zabielski: This is a different...]] Yeah, that's another block. [[Chief Legislator at the Legislative Office at the Senate Office Jakub Zabielski: This is the block that the senator wanted to propose...]] I understand, okay. Okay. Therefore, amendments Nos 1.35, 37 and 39.44 and 46 and 83 should be voted on jointly on 89, 94 and 98, 103, 105 and 113, 117 and 118. These are amendments of the Infrastructure Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 64]] The next amendments are amendments 36 and 38. These are the amendments of Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] The next unvoted amendment is Amendment 45, including Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 84 is Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 94 votes against, 1 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 67]] The next amendment, No. 85, is also the amendment of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. If you vote remotely, please pay attention to whether the signal is correctly sent, because 1 person causes that later we must wait 20 seconds to complete the vote. 98 Senators voted, 96 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 86, including Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 87 is also the amendment of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 88 is also the amendment of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 90 is also the amendment of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 91 is also the amendment of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes against, 46 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 92, last of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's series of amendments... penultimate, sorry. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 93, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 92 for, 4 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 75]] Attention, amendments 99 and 115 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 76]] Attention, amendments 100, 101 and 114 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 102 is also an amendment by Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 104 is also an amendment by Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 79]] And the last amendment, i.e. Amendment 116, including Senator Jan Hamerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Electronic Service Act. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the restriction of civil rights. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged those committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 237-X. We proceed to the third reading. I would therefore ask the rapporteur, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft resolution on the restriction of civil rights. The joint meeting of 28 October 2020 addressed the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. The committees supported the proposal contained in point 2 in point 4 of the table of proposals and requested its adoption by the Senate together with a uniform draft resolution on the limitation of civil rights contained in print No 237 S. In addition, we inform you that on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 in conjunction with Article. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The following applicants have amended the content of their conclusions: Senator Jan Maria Jackowski in point 2 in point 3 of the table of applications, Marek Borowski in point 2 in point 4 of the table of conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u271	Thank you very much, Marshal. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by the senators: Andrzej Pajak, Stanisław Gogacz, Aleksander Szwed, Marek Martynowski, Jerzy Czerwiński, Jan Maria Jackowski, Marek Komorowski and Marek Borowski. [[I want to take...]] Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to encourage the High House after this multi-hour debate that we had, in which many people have pointed out that it should not have been done by those acts that took place during these demonstrations... Therefore, I believe that the Senate of the Republic of Poland should adopt an amendment in such a resolution, in which we would stress that we condemn acts of desecration of churches, violation of religious feelings of believers, vandalism of religious objects and emotional violence against believers, that we also condemn acts of vandalism which were subjected to parliamentary and senatorial offices of parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland. I think that what happened in recent days, especially on Saturday and Sunday, in the first days of these manifestations, was unprecedented in the history of Poland, because even in communist times there was no such scale of vandalism, aggression, violation of religious feelings and desecration of temples. Also as far as senator and parliamentary offices are concerned, this is not an accidental one case, there are already numerous cases at the moment. And I think that in such a resolution, if it is to be valid for what happened, such a provision should be found. In this way, the House should respond to the truth about certain elements of these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the provisions of the draft. After voting on the amendments tabled, we will proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft resolution, i.e. in print No 237 S, in its entirety as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Cell phone signal]] Please silence your mobile phones, if possible. We are voting on the motion of the Senators of Law and Justice to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Cell phone signal]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Senator Barbar Borys-Damięcka: Who is this phone ringing all the time?]] 97 Senators voted, 49 for, 48 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 82]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the draft resolution on the restriction of civil rights and has therefore concluded its proceedings on this matter. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 17th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? You will be the first to speak with Senator Jerzy Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Statement on behalf of... [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please move any discussions outside the room. At the moment, statements are being made.]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement, on behalf of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and my own, is addressed to Piotr Gliński, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport. Minister, Polish culture is dying in the shadow of great and media events. In order to stop the crisis of this important sphere of our lives, we need to introduce several solutions to support creators, artists and cultural institutions, including 3 already defined ones. Firstly, the procedure for the adoption of the Act on the status of an artist should be launched, which is to regulate the status of creators in Poland and strengthen the social security of artists by establishing a social insurance fund. The bill is prepared in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. It is high time he was publicly presented, consulted and implemented. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Secondly, the artists should be re-established with the funds they deserve for the public reproduction of their works. We would like to remind you that in March 2020 by virtue of Article. 15l Act on Special Solutions related to Prevention, Prevention and Combating COVID-19... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voice from the room:...Darling.]] [[Please do not interfere with the making of statements. Mr. and Mrs. Senators...]] ...this source has been extinguished, representing 80% for many artists. income. This principle should be restored or appropriate compensation should be introduced for artists. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thirdly, the implementation of the EU Copyright Directive in the Digital Single Market should be implemented to protect the rights of creators on the Internet. Their works are used to display ads, and the income from them should be shared with the people who create these works. Minister, we are calling for three of these actions to be taken. We ask for information on the position of the Ministry in these matters and the degree of progress of work on solving the problems they concern. Mr. Marshal, one more piece of information about the interpellation I'm making in writing. On 18 August 2020, I sent a statement to the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak. It concerned five years of activity, or inactivity, of Antoni Macierewicz's subcommittee, which was to prove that the Smolensk disaster was the result of a bombing. I understand that there are no good answers to the questions I have asked, but the Senate Rules of Procedure in the article. 49 in item 1 makes it clear that within 30 days the senator is to receive a reply to the statement. Today is the 70th day since the statement was made, and I received no reply. So I repeat my statement, and I ask the marshal to make me answer. I'm going to make a second statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as the other case is concerned, let me point out that this is happening from a vending machine. You don't have to make an additional statement, just a letter to the marshal. We send letters to the ministries, to the Prime Minister and other addressees. Thank you very much. Senator Komorowski will be the next to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a statement and remind you of the error. Jerzy Aleksandra Popiełuszka, chaplain of Warsaw's Solidarity, defender of human rights in the Polish People's Republic, who was murdered on 19 October 1984 and whose corpse was found on 30 October. In two days, it will be the anniversary of the discovery of the body of priest Jerzy Popieluszko, who was brutally murdered by the Security Service. I'd like to make another statement. Today is the 90th anniversary of the Łomża diocese. Pope Pius XI was appointed as a pope of the Poloniae Unitas. The establishment of the Łomża diocese was preceded by a solution of the Sejne diocese. The diocese was then divided into 15 decanates. The first diocesan bishop was from Łętów-Dęb, from Kołaki Kościelne commune, from Zambrowski district Bishop Romuald Jałbrzykowski, auxiliary bishop of Sejneński, general secretary of the Polish Episcopal Conference and then archbishop, metropolitan Vilnius. Currently the diocesan bishop is Janusz Stepnowski since 2011. In 1992, the bull of Pope John Paul II, Totus Tuus Poloniae populus, the diocese of Łomża, changed its boundaries. In fact, it has more than half a million faithful. It consists of 24 decanates. There are 13 sanctuaries within the Łomża diocese. The patrons of the Łomża diocese are St. Bruno Bonifacy of Kwerfurt, Bishop and Martyr, this is the main patron and St. Andrzej Bobola, Presbyter and Martyr, called the Apostle of Polesia, author of the Lviv vows of King John Kazimierz, one of the Catholic patrons of Poland. Blessed are those from the Diocese of Łomża. Fr. Adam Bargielski and the Blessed One. Fr. Michał Piaszczynski. Thank you. I'm making another statement in writing to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u277	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Zdrojewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have four statements, but there's a limit, so I'll probably put two of them on the record. The first is addressed to the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak. I'll admit that almost 500 infections have been reported in a military university. Some claim that there were more of them, some that there was minimally less of them should be noted as a specific case. I don't know who did this. Regardless, this is a particularly dangerous case because it concerns uniformed services. In addition, the cases of COVID-19 recorded in the military do not appear in official balance sheets. Unfortunately, the isolation of infected soldiers At least 2 points in Lower Silesia are noted, public, social consequences and media interest. No answer, whether it's the university spokespersons or other people responsible for information, to journalists' questions, whether it's the Wroclaw newspaper or the main portals, both strengthens I want to stress this suspicion, as well as destroys trust. As I hear signals about the growing problem of infection in other universities and in military units, I expect clear, meaningful transparent and consistent policy of dealing with such cases. I am aware of the existing restrictions on state security and the need to keep part of the information in professional secrecy. However, in order to remain sensible, it is necessary to be adequate in the information policy, to respect the professional duty of journalists and to clearly define the limits of transparency of information. It is important for the MON authorities to be ready for clear information, covering the scale of the pandemic problem in the army, how to deal with the infected, the activity of their own medical resources, laboratory resources, as well as the policy of combating pandemics under the conditions of conjuring. I would like to stress that today, the lack of information and disregard for journalists' questions has already led to various speculations, also fueled by the positive results of the COVID tests in the management of the MON. It's time for precise information to close the topic, for the security of the army and other uniforms. The second statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. This is a statement on the need to introduce separate rules on the organisation of events during the pandemic. We're in special time. We are already being observed that December and January will be a time of extraordinary challenges, extraordinary threats. We expect to put flu on Coronavirus, too, unfortunately. For this reason, referring to the detailed regulations which entered into force by the Council of Ministers regulation of 23 October 2020 amending the previous regulation of the Council of Ministers, of 9 October 2020, on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions in connection with the outbreak of the epidemic, I will quote: Journal of Laws, item. 1758, 1797 and 1829 I consider it desirable to draw attention to the need to introduce additional rules governing the organisation of various sporting, artistic, but also New Year's Eve events. It would be good to think about this problem now, well in advance and not at the last minute, especially since the scale of various projects prepared for December is indeed impressive in some cases. The discipline of citizens in complying with various restrictions must be based on their adequacy, sense, consistency and final logic. The closing of forests, when shops are opened, the closing of theatres, when stadiums are opened, and recently the opposite, the closing of stadiums, when theatres are opened, does not give rise to confidence in all decisions of the authorities. He makes it irrational, to put it simply. Today I would like to draw attention to the logic and the need to overtake the pandemic, not to pursue its consequences. Citizens should be warned or at least informed of the risk of sharpening if certain conditions are met. E.g.If there's more than 10,000 infections for three more days, then... And citizens can watch it. Or vice versa: if we notice a decrease in the number of patients with COVID in such a period, then the restrictions will be changed. Other criteria may be adopted, but these criteria should be known, they should be clearly presented to the public. For economic operators, the logic of events, overtaking in time is extremely important. It offers a chance to reduce costs, losses, but also reduces normal stress. We are entering the most difficult period of pandemics. It can connect in a few, several weeks with the flu I mentioned. [[Mr. Senator...]] Already today you have to get ahead of time and have imagination about the next few weeks. The remaining part, as I said, I'll put it on the record. 2 further statements are addressed primarily to the Minister of Finance. They concern the situation of local authorities, including in particular Wrocław. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-senat-17-3.u279	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 17th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office of the Senate's work room 255. The 17th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 22 minutes 10]]
