ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it's the same again, I mean. again yesterday at the hour. 18 has entered the bill, which counts 45 pages. We're talking about one of the most serious cases right now, probably the most serious, which is the COVID issue. And there's obvious bubble in this bill. I am filing a formal motion to adjourn at least until tomorrow so that we can work on this bill in peace. But I'd pay attention to the lips. 3 point 2b. It was there that the mothers who had just given birth, the mothers of the doctor, could be called to work by the voivods. A few weeks ago, we were dealing with an issue when you called on doctors who had been dead for many years. Can't we really talk about the bill in peace? Can't we really work on the bill in peace and have more than a dozen hours? Mr. Marshal, with your hand on your heart, have you read this bill, these 45 pages, these heavy and great changes that concern how doctors will be treated in our country? Did you read that bill that night? Is this really a good way to process? Have you read it, Marshal? Mr. Marshal, have you read it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u2	Mr President, I was in a better position because I knew the outline of this law last week. I wrote. What about us? On the other hand, there were also various changes and amendments. These changes, as well as the entire bill, will be handled calmly by the committee whose meeting will begin after this part, after first reading in the Parliament hall. That's why we're gonna try to get to know her. You didn't do anything for eight months. We have a motion to adjourn. Mr Robert Winnicki from the Confederation's circle with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, a former marshal of the Lithuanian Seym, Mr Valinskas, said about the leader of the Polish Election Action in Lithuania that such people should be shot. He said this in an interview, without any reaction from the journalists of the Lithuanian media. And what's more, for several weeks there has been a chase, which includes. impacted the election result of the Polish Election Action in Lithuania, the pursuit of illegal, even from the point of view of Lithuanian law, on the Polish minority in Lithuania. This situation is linked to the fact that since 2011 Lithuania has been subject to an extremely anti-Polish law livinising Polish education in this country. Also due to the fact that there is still a problem with spelling names, returning assets. I demand that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland listen to the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister must explain what the Republic is doing... Thank you very much. ...in the defense of Poles in Lithuania. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u4	As you well know, this is not a formal proposal, but I have not interrupted you because of the importance of the matter. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, with a formal request. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the basis of art. Paragraph 184. 3 I submit an application for an adjournment of the Sejm. A break that will be used to invite President Andrzej Duda, the President, who recently received an extremely strong social mandate after the elections. How strong? Prior to the election, he participated in any major action related to the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. None. He participated in the creation of individual shields, proposed a travel voucher project, participated in conferences several times a week together with the former Minister of Health. Now what? And that's true. Even yesterday, when he called the Minister of Education, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He didn't speak on the matter. Thank you very much, sir. There are two choices: either you're abdicating the President or you're a President... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u6	Thank you very much. What are you saying, sir? Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left Club, with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request for a break and a reunion of the Seniors' Convention, where we would amend the decision on the election of the Ombudsman. 2 months - so much the High Chamber delays the possibility of choosing an ombudsman. Not because there was no time, but because there was no desire. One candidate, a thousand organizations that supported her, the possibility of choosing a person who has all the authority to sit in the seat of an ombudsman. But that takes good faith. And since it is already on the agenda today, for the third time, the request that we finally choose the RPO, then, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it would be good for us to listen to the candidates for this function too. The Ombudsman should have the right to vote in this House, and since we have the only candidate, this is a law that we should not deny ourselves and Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-20-sejm-19-1.u8	Thank you. As you know, it's against the rules. We have three requests for adjournment or adjournment. You don't want to work. I will put them to a total vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting or ordering the recess, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 218, against - 207, no one stopped. The request for an interruption has been accepted. [[Applause]] Bravo! I understand that supporters of the Party's obstruction and delaying the adoption of the bill, which Poles are waiting for, have won. We're going to read the bill. I'm calling a 10-minute break. I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, this isn't a request for a recess, it's a motion for adjournment by tomorrow. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 23 hours 10 min 34]] High Seym! I'm reopening the session. We voted for a recess, but we also voted for a recess. The opposition, to be more specific: Civic Platform, wants to block the adoption of the bill that Poles are waiting for. That's your assessment. Shame. That's not true. But the vote came out the way it did. I will therefore call the Senior Convention and ask the Platform to withdraw this proposal. On the other hand, if the proposal is not withdrawn, we will have to terminate the Sejm's deliberations by tomorrow. This, I understand, is gonna delay the adoption of the bill. My proposal is this: now 2 hours off to discuss the bill still in the clubs and return to the meeting in 2 hours. I think that's a reasonable solution. Of course, if the total opposition prevails, i.e. the total idea of stopping the Sejm, that's what's gonna happen. But, Marshal... You're welcome. I'm announcing a ten-minute recess. Senior Convention to the living room, please. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 35 hours 10 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! Here's the situation. We have another disease record and we have an important bill to consider to improve the situation and strengthen health care activities. You've corrected the situation enough. In this bill there are among others. a statutory order for wearing masks in cases where this is announced by the relevant service. The Civic Platform Club has decided to suspend today's session... But it was the Sejm who made the decision. No, it's at the request of the Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sejm. Don't interrupt. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, sir, on request... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't interrupt me, Mr Nitras, okay? You don't have a voice now. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You have no voice now, Mr Nitras. I'm warning you. So, at the request of the Platform, the Sejm decided by a majority that we would postpone the session until tomorrow. I have proposed a compromise solution, a few hours break now, so that the Platform can discuss in its group - its club - four draft laws that have been submitted to the Chamber. The platform didn't agree to this. I understand that this means delaying work on the bill. Shame. I'm afraid that's going to involve the Senate's work as well. I hope not. In this situation, since the Platform Club has not agreed to withdraw or modify its proposal, I am forced to postpone the session of the Sejm until tomorrow. 9... Do the Seym's will. Shame. This is a disgrace. Scandal. ...which means that the obstruction of the total opposition of the Seym was successful this time... Shame and shame. What are you doing? ...and we can tell Poles that the bill will be delayed about this day... What are you doing? ...or days as a result of the opposition's decision. It's a lie. It was supposed to be on Friday. Why wasn't it on Friday? I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow. 9. Have you read the bill? [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 10 min 54]]
