ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u1	I promise. So help me God. Thank you very much. I state that Mr Simon Marek Weather has taken a vow of marriage. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Once again, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 20 November, Marian Cycon, politician and self-government officer, president of New Sącz, mayor of Stary Sącz, Member of the Sejm III and VII term of office, died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. Give him eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. Give him eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed with a quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 426 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic (Prints No 287 and 668) - paragraph 25. - Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy (Prints No 240 and No 635) - point 26. - Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration (Prints No 209 and 703) - paragraph 27. - Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020 (prints No 680 and No 721) - point 36. - Report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the declaration of the provisional agreement in trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofji on 29 April 1925 (prints No 688 and 726) - point 37. - First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws (Print No 689) - item 18. - First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure (Print No 178) - point 19. - Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Alexander Ladoś (Prints Nos 613 and 633) - paragraph 32. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the Act on works or services concessions and certain other laws, print No 777. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws, print No 767. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Act on Banking Law, - amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, - amending the act on combating doping in sport, - amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in airports of public use, - amending the Grant Act for certain entities, - amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, - about changing the name of the Academy of Music in Kraków. The reports shall be printed in 759, 778, 771, 774, 775, 756 and 757 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel, print No 776. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on committee reports on draft legislation on changes to the names of universities. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Culture and Media - hour 10.15, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u3	Thank you. Three Members came forward with formal proposals. The first Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request a break and a call for the Senior Convention to be presented by the President of the Council of Ministers with an urgent amendment to the budget. The Committee on Public Finances gave a positive opinion of PLN 2 billion for the so-called "PiS'. public television... Scandal! ... 2 billion PLN for the industry of contempt and hatred, where the greatest need today is the fight against pandemics. It's basic indecency on your part. It's not much yet. This isn't about the dumb propaganda you guys do every day. It's about the decency of all those on the front line fighting COVID. You do not publish a law that guarantees benefits for doctors, and at the same time you propose that Kurski and the company earning a fortune in the next year receive another 2 billion PLN. That's two billion shames on your part. We expect an urgent self-correction to the state budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] The broken record is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u5	Thank you, sir. I am not calling the Senior Convention, Mr. President. Since there was a request for interruption, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, before the results of the vote, I would like to remind you of what I said at the end of the previous day of the sitting of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, there is my order on the number of Members in the plenary room. I said all the clubs are breaking my orders, and I don't have my permission. There are 92 Members in the Chamber right now, and the clubs know their limits. I'm not gonna argue with you, I'm not gonna ask the guards here. However, as I said, those Members who are here against the limit will be notified at the Bureau meeting. We're going to make a financial penalty decision in accordance with the rules of procedure, because that's not why the Marshal of the Sejm gives the order not to follow it. I'm just reminding you. I'm asking the club presidents, please, please keep an eye on this. If there are more Members than there should be... They've got rooms somewhere else. Please use these rooms. Perhaps it would be better to change this order, Marshal? It's just unnecessary. We want to work. Your marshal, there could be more people in the church, and not in the temple of democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, please don't argue with me. The order is, you have to respect it. What's the point of this discussion? Your Marshal, I had a formal motion on this matter. You wouldn't let me call him. But I'd ask for a vote... Wait a minute. ...as the formal conclusion will be. 431 Members voted. 203 - for, 226 - against, 2 abstained. The request was not accepted. Mr Robert Winnicki with a formal request. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u6	Mrs. Marshal! There is also a second formal conclusion on this matter that you were just talking about. On the other hand, as far as my formal request is concerned, I request that the Sejm be adjourned until we agree on the content of the resolution between the clubs and the circle. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the European Parliament did a very important thing. He has made unprecedented interference in Polish legal and political sovereignty. I therefore call for us, as the Polish Parliament, to adopt the following resolution as the Sejm of the Republic of Poland: In relation to the resolution of the European Parliament of 26 November 2020, the Polish Sejm strongly rejects the European Parliament's claim to evaluate the process of lawmaking in Poland and the activities of judicial institutions in our country to the extent that it is the exclusive competence of a Member State. The European Parliament thus takes action that is incompatible with the Treaties governing the functioning of the European Union and violates the sovereign rights of the Member States, thereby damaging the idea of cooperation between peoples on our continent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call on the Sejm to adopt this text today, in response to what the European Parliament has done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u7	Thank you, sir. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 27 - for, 396 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. As the last Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. There you go. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a recess and convening of the Seniors Convention, which would change the agenda on 28 November, which is tomorrow. Your marshal planned that between hours. 13 a.m. We're gonna have a voting block. I understand there's a need. But as a result, I suggest we don't waste any time, just meet at an hour. 11 and listened to Minister Niedzielski's information on the fight against COVID. Since when is the Senior Convention supposed to do this kind of thing? For the past few days, we've had the feeling that the government is almost announcing that we've won again with COVID, that the disease curve is flattening. But these diseases are still 10, 12, 15,000. daily, and death a day - most in Europe. So it would be worth not only listening to information about this at the Prime Minister's conference, but also to talk in the Sejm and possibly once again agree on the directions, because today it is so that the Prime Minister announces something... The assemblies are... ...and the Sejm doesn't know anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u9	Thank you, sir. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the proposal has already been tabled, we have voted on the request for a break, and I will therefore not put this proposal to the vote again. We proceed with the examination of item 52 of the agenda: the report of the Health Committee on the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel (prints Nos 763 and 776). I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report to the Health Commission on the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel (print No 763). Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 19 November 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading. The amendments proposed in the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel, changes are primarily aimed at adapting health legislation to the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. These include, in particular, medical personnel: doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, paramedics. This is intended to enable, on simplified terms, medical personnel from third countries, i.e. outside the European Union, to work in the Republic of Poland. In addition, the provisions of the project introduce regulations simplifying the rules for the return to the medical profession of persons who have a break in the pursuit of the profession for more than 5 years by replacing the obligation to engage in professional training under the supervision of another experienced professional. The draft law also provides for various types of regulation and adjustments resulting from the condition of the outbreak of Coronavirus. At the Health Committee meeting, which lasted quite long, substantive and editorial amendments were considered. The Health Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 26 November 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u11	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on the Law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel, print No 763. The amendments proposed in the draft law aim at adapting health legislation to the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. The bill deals with medical personnel: doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, as well as paramedics, and aims to enable medical personnel from outside the European Union to work in our country. It introduces two types of solutions: permanent solutions, which will also apply after the outbreak, and emergency solutions in place during the period of threat. It proposes to return to the medical profession for persons who have a break in their profession longer than 5 years. It also assumes that by 31 December 2021 the voivode may entrust the operation of a medical dispatcher to the medical emergency unit's dispatcher, while the team's head may be a medical emergency worker or nurse without the requirement of a 5-year professional experience. The Act also provides for a delay in the date of entry into force of the provisions concerning the start of certain activities by the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue. It also provides for an amendment of the provisions on medical storage facilities for medical rescue teams. The Act also provides for the introduction of medical on-call options by healthcare professionals regardless of their university or secondary education. It also regulates the possibility of recording and storing conversations conducted in the system of State Medical Rescue, clarifies the composition of basic medical rescue teams, and provides for the extension of the data catalogue in the system of records of health resources. It is very important in the draft law that these rules are compatible with European Union law. The draft law does not require it to be submitted to the competent institutions and bodies of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, for the purpose of obtaining an opinion, notification, consultation or agreement. Law and Justice positively recommends the proposed amendments and also proposes five amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u13	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Please, Mr Raimund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Civic Coalition - the Civic Platform, a position towards the parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that, during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel, prints No. 763 and 776. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill shows the arrogance - the arrogance of Members and the power of the PiS in the current situation. We have not yet met such ill-written legislation, with so many legislative errors, even though the Ministry of Health has also admitted to the law. 5 hours of work of the Health Committee and a whole night of work of legislators. That is not enough, this law contains provisions that violate European Union law. All professional authorities: doctors, nurses, medical analysts, physiotherapists, have spoken against this law as a harmful act, a law that can harm the life and health of Polish patients, because loosening the conditions of admission of people without real control of their knowledge of the language and competence is amazing in the case of this law. Speaking of this law, it is impossible not to ask - there is no Prime Minister here - why no law has been published to this day, which health professionals are really waiting for. Each day of dragging the publication of this law is the stealing of Polish health workers from the funds they deserved, which were granted by the Sejm, which was signed by the President. The Prime Minister's words, thanks to the PiS Members to health professionals, are pure hypocrisy - that is pure hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. So I guess the Prime Minister's position remains, and the character hasn't changed. I think it's the same as in the Owl recording where he told the Poles, but I think the health workers, to go behind a bowl of rice. This is the position of the government and the prime minister in a situation where Polish health workers put their lives and health at risk. I'll remind you, it's not just money for doctors. That's the money for doctors, nurses, salons, medical personnel who work on these severe diseases. And already the puriazum was yesterday's response from the Ministry of Health to the question why they are directed to fight COVID dentists. We talked about how the way dentists are trained is that they won't be useful in fighting COVID. And what did we hear? That they're gonna qualify and vaccinate against flu. In that case, Prime Minister. In October, you said you had 3 million vaccines. Try to buy at least one vaccine at the pharmacy. These vaccines are physically gone, ladies and gentlemen. Another lie and another senseless posting of professional workers, when dentistry lies in Poland. Finally, I have a very sad conclusion. Because local authorities, the environment, asked the Ministry to respect their work and to be able to issue judgments on the usefulness of the right to pursue the profession within 14 days. Although the representatives of these chambers say they do it immediately, there are situations in which they will not be able to gather, they will not be able to issue such important documents. The Ministry ignores it - they say. In cooperation with the medical community, complete disregard. It's been stubborn for seven days, while it's practically impossible. Such government action during the pandemic period undoubtedly poses a threat to the life and health of Polish patients. This is the disregard of employees of Polish health services, that is, putting workers of Polish health services at risk of further infections. I'm sure the Prime Minister will ask again when things are falling apart so we can show him how we're supposed to proceed. Well, the government does what it wants, the government doesn't listen to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! There are several provisions in this Act that regulate the matter of the necessary laws on the guarantee of means and conditions of employment from one day when such a necessity arises from the Act. But there is also the question of ensuring a minimum wage. What about the salary that health workers really deserve? I'm not talking about doctors, even though I'm a doctor, I'm talking about tech workers, nurses, salon workers, everyone who's due at this time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will make one amendment to the bill, which will seek to extend the possibility of issuing a ruling within 14 days. The Civic Coalition - Civic Platform is strongly against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party. What about me? Excuse me, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club. I am so sorry, miss.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u16	Dear Marshal! Dear Members and Dear Members, Once again, we are dealing with a parliamentary project, which is proceded in express mode, without consultation, is written sloppyly, on the knee. The project was criticized by absolutely everyone - all of them. There is a reference in the Act to a law that has not yet been passed. And what did we hear on the committee? And type in any date. After all, it is absurd to create a law that should help citizens and citizens suffering from COVID and health workers who are simply putting their lives and health at risk at this point and deserve at least to create a good law, not one that needs to be fixed and which makes the law incomprehensible, illegible and really meaningless in many records. Apart from legislative absurdities, there were things that are really horribly harmful, e.g. forced to work in the SORs without adequate remuneration. Why? You wanted to pay the employees the basic rates without additions, without application - note - Labour Code, i.e. without paying overtime. I would like to say one thing now, because I have the impression that Law and Justice do not fully understand this idea: there is no employee from a slave. If you want health workers to work, you have to pay them decently, according to the Labour Code. This amendment successfully fixed the bill. You will pay them according to the Labour Code. You're a gracious man. And we heard so much at the committee meeting that Law and Justice thank health workers that they appreciate their hard work, that they really risk their lives and their health. It was close, and Mr Rychlik would start clapping. Health workers don't want your good words. They want real action. They want you to publish a raise bill, not give another 2 billion zlotys on TVP. They want you to make a good law that will help them, not some legal bubble that you can't really read. Dentist vaccinations. Mr Latos laughed at the committee meeting yesterday that a COVID patient may have problems with his face, commenting on the simply dangerous idea of dentists serving COVID troops. It's not like you're directing anesthesiologists to treat teeth. What's exciting is that you want to include as many medical professionals as possible in vaccination with COVID, because I think we're all aware that if we have 30 million vaccines, we're going to need quite a large medical team to vaccinate. As a matter of fact, I have tabled amendments that would allow dentists to carry out vaccinations. Unfortunately, you rejected all of them. The bill is in the Senate, amendments have been tabled and pharmacists and pharmacists will be able to vaccinate if you do not reject this amendment in the Sejm. So dentists, pharmacists, pharmacists, but also nurses and nurses can vaccinate, they should vaccinate, so that we can be sure that we can vaccinate the entire society, all those who want, on COVID. Here's another case. Soon the anniversary of the outbreak in Wuhan. It's about time you had a system collecting data about COVID. The fact that it's just now that this system appears in the bill, it's really absurd. After a year, you managed to create a system that would be uniform and central. But this data should be public. There's an amendment on this, and you rejected it at the committee meeting yesterday. You don't really have anything to justify yourself here. You've lost over 20,000. cases, this was detected by a high school boy, and in fact what we read on the official Twitter of the Ministry of Health is: we apologize we have a mess in the data, because we have a mess in the data. How is society supposed to trust the Ministry of Health after such a bluff? Around the corner is the vaccination action on COVID, and there trust will be crucial. So accept the amendment on the publication of these data, allow people to control what is going on in the county. Work agencies, the last thing that's really dangerous. It's a dangerous idea for patients' rights and safety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are great doubts as to how you will introduce a temporary employment agency into the employment of medical professionals, how this will affect matters of professional responsibility, civil liability and liability of medical practitioners for errors. The question is, isn't it that some ski instructor or other minister's colleague started this agency again and he just needs it... Finish it, Member. ...to get the green light. I'm making two amendments. I hope you will accept them because they are for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u18	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is written on your knee, and it's not an opinion. Only Members of the opposition, but this is the opinion, above all, of the Office for Sejm Analysis. In fact, the Sejm Analysis Office claims that this law is incompatible with European law. And if we add critical remarks to this by representatives of various trade unions, the opinion of this law is almost crushing. Self-governments of the medical professions unambiguously - I repeat - strongly negatively evaluate the bill. The National Chamber of Physiotherapists, the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics, signed under this title. All agree that as representatives of public confidence professions, they cannot agree with the risk of life and health of Poles. Few of this, even Professor Maximowicz, who is a member of the Law and Justice Club, considered that all the issues that were raised by the Sejm Analysis Office had to be taken into account. If I hear a Parliamentary legislator saying that the rule is enigmatic and controversial, what more can Members say? Such a discussion was, for example, in the case of an article. 19. There were many comments from legislators on the constitutional principle of equality when discussing points concerning nurses and midwives in the context of the right to pursue a profession. There was even talk of legalization of fiction. In the Polish Parliament, can a law be passed so critically, so unambiguously judged by professionals? I've spoken to a lot of people in the health care system, not only doctors, nurses, but also people who perform other medical professions. Everyone believes that loosening the criteria for admission to work of people from outside the European Union without complying with the verification of their qualifications and knowledge of the Polish language - this opinion is consistent - poses a real threat to the health and life of all patients. They believe that we can deal even with ordinary crooks who want to make good money quickly by coming to Poland. After all, in the environment, it is already said that companies that draw workers from abroad already have contracts signed with them. They're waiting for this bill to be passed. We as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives believe that regulations on the granting of the right to pursue the profession should be amended, but not so that we do not give up these provisions. This is absolutely unacceptable. The Act refers to the definition of new competences of the NFZ in connection with the changes that you have recently made and which have no idea what to further serve. Instead of strengthening the health care system, the government takes care of itself, i.e. it determines who can do what in the new NFZ, under the new president. Relinquishing the implementation of the provisions to be implemented by the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue, that is also avoiding and admitting that you failed to introduce those provisions you wanted to operate. In general, when assessing these changes in medical emergency regulations, I doubt that, after these changes have been made in all voivodships, it will be possible to safely take over the medical dispatcher by the voivodship from 1 January. I've been talking to paramedics, it's about the five-year experience of the head of the medical team, which, according to this bill, is taken down. They know that for an employer it will be quite convenient, because these employees with such experience do not exist. On the other hand, with regard to patient safety, the quality of this medical benefit, I don't think that's all I have to say. As I look at this loosening of these requirements, I'm waiting for you to lead to the situation that the pilot in the Air Emergency Service won't have to have a license, because that's what this is all about. We as the Coalition of Poland advocate to take on real matters, among others. I want the Prime Minister to finally comment on the vaccination of Coronavirus. Let this speaker tell you whether these vaccinations will be free of charge, whether these vaccinations will be voluntary, how to it distributes the vaccine and avoids errors associated with the distribution of the vaccine [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the flu. We expect this from the Prime Minister and from the Minister of Health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of the most outrageous laws that have emerged in the last six months as regards the health system. Not only are there imports of medical professionals here - as the medical community says - without qualifications, without the nostrils of diplomas, without the knowledge of the Polish language, this is the assumption of this law not only for the time of the epidemic, but also in this project there is a mechanism of constant treatment and a constant approach in this way to the health system. In addition to creating unfair competition for doctors in Poland it is primarily a fundamental threat to the safety, life and health of patients, but it is also really the creation of double standards - a Polish doctor, a Polish physician, a Polish nurse, who must get the right education, the right professional skills, are placed in a worse position than this foreigner from outside the European Union imported by the Moravian government to manage his inability, his own inability and weakness when it comes to the health protection system. Ladies and gentlemen, this record that appeared there, about the fact that when it comes to remuneration for medical rescuers, for example, is not to apply the Labour Code, it is to be the Labour Code excluded and they are not to receive adequate overtime money, it is simply some aberration, it is a scandal. Are you aware of the situation in the health system today? Do you realize that rehabilitators are directed to COVID units without any mode, without any legal basis, without any knowledge, how much will they be paid for 12-hour shifts in COVID units? This is the reality of the health system today. And in these realities of the health system, there is also the fact that - as the organizations emphasize, for example nurses - 30,000. nurses and midwives of pre-retirement age are not employed anywhere. Why aren't they employed anywhere? Because you offer outrageous working conditions and wages, that's the truth. They need a specific incentive to return to work. As far as nurses are concerned, less than 30% This year's graduates took up a professional job in Poland. And you want to import the unknown quality of doctors from outside the country, offering them better conditions than those who had to obtain professional qualifications in Poland? This is a granda, this is a scandal. This law should not appear in the High House at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u21	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u22	Dear Marshal! High Izbo, with the presence of two representatives of Law and Justice! In one of the most famous catastrophic films, perhaps on Independence Day, there is a discussion about who will advise the president on how to save the world. There comes such an independent scientist who is the main character of this film, and asks the president, knowing who his current advisor is: Do you really want the person who advises you and decides for you to be a guy who has a three in astrophysics? I think we have a similar situation in this bill. We're not sure, we can't be sure, we don't know. The cure is that over the past two decades, all political teams have been ignoring health care, health care, and what is happening in it, the cure for doctors missing that doctors lack that payouts are low, that all doctors think at a certain point in their lives, most often at the very beginning of their career, as in such food that they get a diploma in one hand, and in the other hand they already hold a ticket to Manchester - the cure for this is to download doctors that we are not sure their professionality really equals the professional skills of our doctors. You introduce double standards, make it easier to become a doctor abroad, in Ukraine, in Belarus than in Poland, and then you can work in Poland. We demand equal access to this profession. We absolutely do not agree that Polish doctors have a harder way to do this than foreign doctors you want to download. It's not a cure. System medicine should look completely different. That's what we're talking about all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Me too. You're welcome. Question time - 1 minute. The first will be presented by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a medical experiment on citizens. No doctors, no jobs for nurses in Poland - we know all this. So today the government wants to bring to Poland medics from the so-called. third countries, outside the European Union, who are not necessarily doctors because there is no possibility verify their qualifications. Maybe they'll be doctors or medics who don't even know Polish. They may be treating us with Chinese medicine in Mandarin. But Poles, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, are not guinea pigs. Instead of keeping our doctors in the country, you told them: go, and you bring doctors to Poland, who are not necessarily doctors. Today, the Prime Minister praises doctors and doctors in Poland, but he does not publish, ladies and gentlemen, the Act on Supplements for Medics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why? We don't know that. Perhaps it's easier to bring those from abroad. The rulers today want to give Poles not European medicine, but third world medicine. And we don't agree to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u25	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry to say that the project under investigation is a legal issue. Perhaps the designers had good intentions, but, as it is said, good intentions of hell are paved. It follows from the draft law that medical personnel from outside the European Union will be employed without proper verification of competence. And a question. Were the changes proposed in the project subject to consultation with the environment representing doctors, nurses or paramedics? We are all aware that there is a shortage of qualified medical personnel in the fight against the pandemic. On the other hand, the health of Poles, which depends on the care provided by competent, qualified health professionals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u27	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u28	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Almost two years ago, the PiS imposed an obligation on the voivodeships to take over the medical dispatcher. Today it is almost 2 years, in 1 month it will be 2021 and actually the dispatchers do not know what their employer is. In this law, you are again relocating the time limits for entry into force of this provision. I wanted to ask: At what stage are the voivodships prepared to take over? How many voivodships are gonna take over these dispatchers? Well, recently, because on November 20th, the National Health Fund at the request of the voivods announced a competition for functioning... announced a competition for medical rescue. It turns out that the money is only secured for 3 months, and the funds are to be reduced by 10%. What are you guys raising that money for? For Jack Kurski's TV? After all, medical rescue in Poland costs about PLN 2 billion, i.e. as much as you transfer to public television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in what period of pandemic are we? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Will you welcome the great Antonov airport with doctors who will come joyfully here to Poland to begin their practice? Prime Minister, will you check whether these doctors who come here are sometimes disguised as being able to work only on the decision of the Minister and be directed to work only by the voivodships? What does it look like, Prime Minister, to be recruited at the moment for these positions throughout Poland, carried out around the world? I understand that the ambassadors have now received an order from the Prime Minister and are looking around and contracting doctors from what is more important clinics. Is that the way it is, Prime Minister, or is it the way it always is? Will it be that we will be surprised, as in the case of masks or ventilators: oh, they have arrived and are not doctors? Oh, my gosh, what does that mean? Prime Minister, if they come, they will be employed in the free market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or will they be referred by the voivode to a director who will be exposed with the hospital to a great risk of medical error being the responsibility of society and a specific hospital? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! We can say it's not a bill, it's embarrassment. I have the impression that after 8 months of fighting the koravirus, PiS decided to introduce a law on the basis of which we employ witch doctors, shamans, in addition to Swahili language knowledge, because there is no requirement to learn Polish. Let us note that even you felt that this was an embarrassment because they withdrew most of the provisions during the committee meeting. So that right now, there's a hull left at all, no one knows why the servant. And it would be much easier to simply publish the law of 3 November, which not only gives doctors a raise, from which you steal from them every day, it also increases the possibility of hiring people from outside the European Union. This bill is bullshit, this bill is a shame, this bill compromises its authors and you should withdraw it as soon as possible. I would also like to say to the members of the Confederation who have already left, that if their representative, Korwin-Mikke, had voted against this law as we did against it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At first reading, this proposal would have passed because one vote was missing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u34	Dear Marshal! This bill is one big fraud resulting from the fact that you do not want to publish a bill that guarantees all medical professionals financial resources. You're running away from her. Not publishing this bill, Prime Minister, is a crime. In the bill you are proposing, there is no mention that Poland is at one of the last places when it comes to testing Poles on coronavirus. Let me remind you: there are over 1,200 thousand in Denmark. tests for 1 million inhabitants, in the UK - 615 thousand, in Poland - 160 thousand. It's just a shame. If we're talking about availability of influenza vaccination, that's 4%. The population is provided with a vaccine. In Spain and Italy it's 70%. In Poland, people who want to give away plasma must wait 2 weeks because there is no equipment, so-called. separators. And there's no resources for the medics because you've blocked the right bill. If you want to bring to Poland people who do not have professional qualifications... I would like to remind you that under the European Directive, the law enters into force, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who talks about how to qualify for special professions. You're even breaking the provisions of this bill that we're working on, and that's why you're gonna be cleared of it. There's chaos in your country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Yesterday we learned that dentists would qualify for vaccination and vaccination against influenza. Minister, your head of Minister Niedzielski last week at the conference said that he predicted that in February there would be a peak of influenza and therefore also of COVID. Prime Minister Morawiecki said in October that we have 3 million vaccines. We know they're gone. Sir, I ask the Ministry to respond in writing to the question: How many vaccines are there in our country? People can't get vaccines, and dentists who should be treating their teeth won't be vaccinated with air. Second question. It seems very suspicious that you have entered into this law provisions concerning so-called. employment agencies. Will they be agencies run by arms dealers? Will they be agencies run by ski instructors? Are they gonna be this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rabbit friends? I recommend disclosure of who will run these agencies. I think the appropriate services should take care of these agencies and the organisation of this mediation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u37	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Health care problems have been present for years. It's been known for years that doctors are missing. Then why didn't you go on vacation, before the second wave of the epidemic, about the lack of medical personnel? Andrzej Duda's campaign and party wars were more important? If you'd taken care of it then, it would have been time for a public consultation. It is a pity, because the authorities of the medical profession are extremely compatible in this case - the import of human resources from outside the Union in this form is a risk to patients. The Act does not guarantee proper verification of persons, their knowledge and even knowledge of Polish language. Maybe it's a good time for Jarosław Kaczyński to apologize for the words of Mrs Hrynkiewicz, who screamed to doctors in 2017: let them go. Recently, Mrs Lichocka said: Germany, if you want to help, hand over our doctors. Then why don't you decide? Plus, a month ago, the Sejm passed a bill that made it easier to hire doctors from the East. You still haven't published the bill. Why? 'Cause it's got extras you don't want to pay the doctors? That's what you did with the health care workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've passed a 70% raise bill. but so far no health resort in Poland has received money for it. If you want to have good health care, instead of banishing doctors, pay them well and show them respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is our duty to take care of Polish workers. Secondly, conditions must be created so that Polish doctors do not have to leave the country. If someone talks to young Polish doctors who have finished very difficult studies: let them go, it means that there are no such conditions. Another thing. Although Polish nurses finish difficult studies, they do not want to work in the profession. It's also a great task for the government. There is absolutely something that should be changed in this regard. The last thing we talk about a lot. The most important thing, perhaps the most important thing, is the atmosphere. If the government postpones the publication of the law, it does not want to publish a law that gives the workers, Polish doctors additional funds, if in any way it tries to humiliate and not help them, especially during this difficult period, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard to say. with a good atmosphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u41	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns a little bit of a different area. It's about access to drugstores at night. We have a very difficult time when many people are ill, among others. Apothecaries. Today we have such a situation, that in towns that count tens of thousands of inhabitants, such a place is, for example. Czechowice-Dziedzice, it is difficult to provide access to the night pharmacy due to the fact that there is a requirement for a master's degree. Of course, it is possible to create regulations that even the presence of a professor will be necessary, but the question to the government will do something to enable the residents of these towns to use pharmacies during the night so that they do not have to go to larger towns, which are often several dozen kilometres from their place of residence. These are the problems that the people are facing today. And the question is: Is the Ministry preparing a solution to such problems? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u43	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u44	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Tram's empty. Why? The government is fighting the epidemic. The government is the best in this, after all, the government has already lost a lot of success: he knew how to buy useless masks, he knew how to buy non-existent ventilators, he knew how to burn public money when you had to fight. On 31 May, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and President Duda made a toast with beer. Yeah, they already drank to it. Ladies and gentlemen. Today you are not publishing a bill that you should have published a long time ago. You take money from people who really fight at the front, in county hospitals, not in a five-star hotel at the National Stadium. You're talking about convalescence. I assume most of you don't even know what that word means. That word means to heal. You will need to heal Poland after you. You've already destroyed everything you could. After you, most of the legislation will have to be ratified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which, unfortunately, are disturbing in our country. Publish the bill, give the money back to the people who save our health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that the Prime Minister is not with us, because we are actually talking again about a bill that is supposed to help doctors. I would like to ask the representatives of the government, but also the Prime Minister, who is not here: What about the bill that we voted for almost a month ago, and which is talking about 100 percent additions for all the doctors who work on the coronavirus? Why won't you publish it? Why is this bill in the freezer without any mode and not published? Prime Minister! Now you're reporting a lot of different laws, but why didn't you do it in May, June? I know you were busy with the election campaign, but all the specialists were talking about the second wave of epidemics, and you didn't do it then. [[♪ The bell ♪]] practically Nothing but helping Andrzej Duda make him president for the second time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the PiS is involved in fixing something, it's either ruining the law and ruining the state or jumping into the cash register. Ruining the state is this law, the next law, which allows you to bring to Poland or come to Poland you do not know who, someone who tells you that you want to be a doctor, will be a doctor in Poland. He's gonna make our doctors leave even more. If anything good comes up for PiS, like the October bill he doesn't want to sign, that's what he doesn't sign. And that's the way it is, it's clearly the spoils of the state. Jumping to the cash register, ladies and gentlemen, this is the National Hospital, where tens of millions of zlotys have been pumped into. You don't know who took the money, no tenders, no competitions, nothing. The money was taken by the rabbit and his men. And the cherry on the cake is that this hospital for over $1,000. beds support 20 patients, and the board [[♪ The bell ♪]] this hospital collects almost 650 thousand every month. zł. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. There is no Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we were investigating yesterday and which we are investigating today should be called: how to hire shamans in Poland about the knowledge of the language unta, unta. All professional authorities of doctors, nurses, laboratory diagnostics have written that this law is a threat to the lives and health of patients, because it allows people with unverified professional qualifications or even language to perform medical professions. Today, the authorities should focus on stopping doctors, nurses and other medical staff in Poland, not on importing medical professionals from abroad. Today the authorities in Poland should consider why this year the work took up 1 000. nurses who have completed their studies, not 4,000 who [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're actually graduates. Why does the Ministry of Health today become the first opponent of Polish patients and Polish health services? I would like the Ministry to respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u51	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is not only an improbable legal mess, sloppyness, but also a lack of imagination. I do not have time, but the amendment proposed by Senator Lewis on the remuneration of medical staff, which I had won and the opposition at the Health Committee meeting, did not enter into force. We remember what happened to the residents, how they felt cheated, and how the nurses protested. In general, staff are reluctant to go to our government and do not trust the Prime Minister. But I also wanted to talk as a doctor working for 24 years and in intensive care, and in an ambulance about the choice of these doctors and more. There have always been, very incidentally, cases of unethical attitudes (the Bell), and we often deal with patients, patients unconscious, thefts, even sexual harassment, rapes. It has always been carefully eliminated by the environment, criminal organs. Are we not concerned that by not checking the ethical attitude of the workers we will bring in chaotically, we will also bring on patients a lot of drama and misery? Of course, I don't want to offend a lot of conscientious... Thank you very much. ...very good medical workers from other countries or even continents, but there is a risk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u54	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the previous session of the Sejm, we implemented the EU Directive on regulated professions into our legal system. Do you not see the gap between the laws we adopted at the previous meeting and those that we are adopting now that guarantee that admission criteria are loosened when it comes to verification and qualification, among other things. language? After all, this is nonsense - accepting those regulations and those. And these people will work together. Those who can come and for whom we have verified the super-quality of work will work alongside those we do not know for sure. This uncontrollable, to put it rudely, employee import is ridiculous. And one more thing: Doesn't the State of Law and Justice see contradictions in its communications? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before the elections and in 2015, and in 2019 you said that your policy would consist in bringing medical workers to Poland - it is about these Poles - and you do nothing in this direction. You do the opposite, from countries, from third countries, you are going to bring people to the place of our Polish employees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u56	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Morawiecki has announced a plan whose first stage is called the stage of responsibility, but in practice this means that he expects this responsibility from the citizens. They're supposed to be the responsible ones at home. In a minute, they won't be able to travel. The government doesn't have to be responsible. The government does not even have to comply with the law, it can break it without publishing a law that is very important and very necessary and awaited by all medical doctors and all Poles. This government doesn't have to be responsible. The best proof is this project, which is a legal bubble and actually poses a threat to the safety and life of patients in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! This problem will not solve the most important problem concerning HR. We already know today that you can't handle it. And the best thing that could happen is for you to stop really managing the fight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with COVID in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u57	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u58	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill prepared by PiS in cooperation with the Minister of Health is not only crazy sloppy and written really horrible, but also - worst of all - contains solutions which, Mr Rychlik, threaten the lives and health of Poles. 'Cause what do we need right now? Now it is necessary for you to publish the bill that has been passed by the Sejm, by the Senate, to be signed by the President. They need money, money for doctors, for nurses, for midwives, for paramedics, for all those who are fighting, they've really been fighting the COVID epidemic in Poland since it appeared. Because it is their shoulders that have been responsible for fighting for the health and life of Poles and Poles since the outbreak began. We need money for hospitals, hospitals that take patients who heal them that save their lives. For many months, more hospitals have been announcing fundraisers for medical equipment, oxygen, masks, aprons, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for mineral water and hygiene products. That's what we need, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u59	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Paweł Papke, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u60	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's another PiS bill that's ruining the state and barely drinking health care. Besides, when you look at turnout and government and parliamentarians from Law and Justice, it just gets sad - how they are interested in the next laws saving health care. The provisions of the draft law simplify the rules for the return to the medical profession in respect of persons who have a break in the pursuit of the profession for more than 5 years, by replacing the obligation to be trained in the profession under the supervision of another person performing the medical profession. However, if this person did not have such supervision, there was no such supervision, then what institution would take care of this training? And by what date would that be? I would like to remind you that oral doctors' specialization exams in the spring session were canceled due to the pandemic, when cases of coronavirus infection were much less. And second question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] resulting from the first: Will this training in the age of computerization be remote - synonymous with an oral exam - or in some other form? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Pawłowska, Left. There is no Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u62	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about medical personnel. Always medical staff is the most important link in the health system. And Polish nurses are concerned. They are concerned that the government wants to hire doctors from third countries and does not care about its own resources, does not care about Polish nurses, Polish nurses. In fact, it is not entirely clear what the additives will look like from 1 January 2021. It ends with the so-called. Zembala. The Deputy Minister responsible for the nursing department's case has left without solving the case. We don't really know where the doctors stand. But the second thing is, of course, cost. How is it possible that on the one hand there are excessive expenditures at the National Stadium, where the readiness of the bed in the ward is the daily cost of 822,42 PLN, [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, in a traditional hospital it is 100 PLN? It's an eight-time beat to be ready to have one hospital bed. Who made the assessments of these medical technologies, who set this tariff arrangement? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u64	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There are two reasons why Prime Minister Morawiecki does not publish the bill. The first is that Law and Justice tricked the medics, doesn't want to add 100 percent. There's another reason. The COVID Act, which was signed by the President and not published by the Prime Minister, excludes the application of Public Procurement Law, but within 14 days all institutions must publish information on services in the Public Information Bulletin. Someone cares about, for example. when building all temporary hospitals do not publish who performed services, who bought, for how much and why. This is absolutely one of the main reasons, as we hear, for not publishing. We had the first wave of pandemics and the first wave of scams. Unfortunately, we have a second wave of pandemics and a second wave of scams. I only have one question: When will Prime Minister Morawiecki publish it so that all the public money that is spent from our pockets is spent in a transparent manner? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u65	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no personnel left to fight the COVID. Unfortunately, COVID is imposing on the flu epidemic, which will soon be haunting us with an increasing frequency. I have a question: Does the government therefore plan to provide free vaccinations for white personnel, medical, technical staff, ambulance drivers and all those involved? If these people in service, who are still missing, get flu, the situation could get worse. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki promised free vaccinations for 75+ seniors. Unfortunately, vaccines are for a cure, they're missing from pharmacies. Seniors are people most at risk, so I would like to get answers to the questions: What does the Prime Minister say about this? Will it provide vaccinations to these people? In addition, I request funding (the bell) to hire additional staff in health care, also in the Podlasie health centre. There is a shortage of people to work on when it comes to COVID in our voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u68	Dear Marshal! Can you put a driver behind the bus who isn't qualified for this? Of course you can. Will he go? He'll go. The question is, how many people will he kill along the way. This law, which we are discussing, is an example of the most dangerous pandemic for Poles and Poles, a pandemic of the inability of power to create law. Don't make theaters out of hospitals. When reading this law, you can presume that the actors will be able to work in hospitals. Yeah, well, those of you who played doctors on TVs are the best way to deal with it. If you don't have any idea how to verify if the person who wants to work at the hospital has graduated from any medical school or even graduated from any school, then I have an idea. I have a question for Members of the applicants, Members of the Law and Justice Department: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would you agree to be guinea pigs? Maybe it's an idea. Stop improvising and start thinking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u69	Thank you very much. Please, one last question, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What you're saying here isn't true. Many Poles who studied outside the European Union were waiting for the bill prepared by the Ministry of Health. You will recall how you have eliminated the vocational training of nurses and training in the field of medicine, how you have destroyed the entire vocational training system. Now the ministry is bringing it back. It's normal. And people who want to work with sick people, with patients, are waiting for solutions. You only have charges, and I don't see any concern for the patient in your statements. There's a shortage of medical personnel, that's what everyone's talking about. Do you know how many years it takes to train a medic to be a professional? 12 years. Why did you send them abroad? And now you have the audacity to criticize a government that, in a pandemic period, has dealt primarily with problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us act together for the sake of Poles and Poles and let us take care of the lives of all Poles, because health has no political color. Thank you. Don't yell. What about that guinea pig?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u71	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u72	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Thank you very much for so many questions. There's been a lot of cases that weren't related to this law, the unaccounted for. There are no such provisions in the Act, there are no such provisions as you invoked. The basic thing: that in Poland people who do not have proven qualifications can work, that they can be actors, that they can be unbelievable people, is not true, because a person must have authority, must have completed his studies. It must have the necessary powers required in the case of a particular medical profession or nurse's profession. When it comes to medical competitions, the return of doctors, nurses, laboratory diagnostics or pharmacists after a 5-year period of non-professional activity is a minor improvement. These people are not undergoing training now, i.e. during COVID, but they work in their workplace under the supervision of an experienced, qualified person, namely a doctor, nurse or pharmacist, respectively. Therefore, this period of 3 months is necessary for this person to prepare for this occupation. In general, the whole of Europe is in such a direction that most medical professions are multi-specialist. All countries are trying to use as much as possible, transfer their powers, move the rules just in case of the fight against the COVID. This is also the case in Poland. We've already changed some laws. The obstetrician on COVID time may carry out additional health benefits. The direction is that benefits may also be provided in the case of other professions. It goes on, among other things. about the vaccination, as was mentioned. We are talking mainly about vaccinations for COVID. As planned in January, there will be a great deal of opportunities for vaccines. Therefore, you have to be ready to inoculate a large number of people. Of course vaccination for COVID was such a question, they are, are to be free, recommended and optional vaccinations. That's why it's not... In the first place for patients in the most vulnerable groups, i.e. medical staff and the elderly. When it comes to influenza vaccinations, because this was also the case here, for the first time in history, medical personnel were very interested in vaccinations. Over 250,000 have been vaccinated. persons. The Ministry passed on the vaccines. The National Health Fund has paid many individuals to vaccinate its medical staff and others to whom it has not paid, because there were those who were not interested in payment, we simply passed the vaccine free of charge to these people. As far as this law is concerned, it was said that the year is coming to an end and there is no telling what is next with the salaries of nurses, doctors or paramedics, because most agreements are just ending on 31 December. Therefore, this law extends this period by another six months so that there is no situation that someone will not receive the funds that are due to him. This period is completely extended. At the same time, a statutory amendment has been prepared which guarantees every person who received an additional salary that after 1 July he will not be reduced by this remuneration, that the employer will not reduce this remuneration, which is presented here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law also extends the different deadlines in the case of medical rescue, so that the situation in this area is correct. There is also a way out for medical rescuers who can work in an equivalent working time, as the Member said, within the normal work code, the opt-out. If the paramedic agrees, he will also be able to work in a higher range than the work code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the committee. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I asked for the floor because I personally referred to my statements, my conclusions. First of all, I want to say that I'm going to refer to you numerically, substantively, and I'm going to give you the data, as opposed to what you were doing here just moments ago. It was just a display of demagogy. Demagogue is the government's practice. Mr. Speaker! There was an argument that doctors and nurses make very little money. I've received data from the Ministry of Health. Salary for employment contract for March 2015. Doctor with 2nd degree of specialization - 8015 PLN. But it's not at the stadium. How many hours, sir? How many hours has the doctor worked? I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. But you're welcome... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your marshal, please calm your colleagues, because they're getting on their nerves. I'm asking you to calm down. January 2020 - 13 643, an increase of PLN 5600, over 40%. The doctor with the first degree of specialization. March 2015 - I remember, I think it was then ruled by the Civic Platform with PSL - 6786 PLN. Excuse me, sir, one question. January 2020 - PLN 10 847 Mr... Your marshal, I know it's uncomfortable for you, too, but these are data... No, no. Mr. President, can you listen to me? Yes, Your Marshal. I just wanted to remind you that you are the rapporteur of the committee and that you should stick to this role. As well as the applicant. This isn't a dispute with the MPs. [[Applause]] Okay, okay. Your marshal, so I'm afraid I'm going to present the data to you at the committee meeting. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the medical course is a very prestigious course, of course... How many medical dispatchers will take over the voivodship since... I'm asking you to calm down. You refer to what was at the committee meeting, Mr President, and to what is in the bill. That's what I'm talking about right now. This is a prestigious course and many young people want to study in this direction, unfortunately for reasons like this and not others, e.g. Because of the exam results, you don't get in that direction. The young Poles therefore choose permanent studies in Eastern European countries, in Kiev, Lviv, Ternopil, Ivano-Frankivsk, Vitebsk or Minsk. This is a common practice; I think we are talking about a few thousand Poles here. From this speaker Mr Szopiński of the Left said that shamans would come to Poland. Mr President, are Polish medical students in the Eastern Block countries shamans? And are their fellow Ukrainians, Belarusians, Georgians also shamans who end their medical course? In my opinion, the word should be "sorry" right now. Please take into account that young Poles who are studying in Ukraine, Belarus, must nostrile their diploma so that they can come to Poland and work. And these solutions that we're introducing allow them to work. I would like to say that today in Poland for the nostrilization of the diploma, and this is the data from medical authorities, there are more than 500 doctors waiting from just Eastern European countries. They can enter the system from day to day, and unfortunately today they do other jobs, functions in other workplaces, really different, from physical work to mental work. Please take this into account and stop with this demagogy, because it is really about protecting the health and life of Poles, as well as improving the comfort of the work of Polish medics who are by omissions of many years, ladies and gentlemen, mainly yours, exposed to enormous overload. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u75	Thank you. In the procedure of correcting Mr Shopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, during this debate we learned that Poland educates doctors outside the borders of the European Union and that Poland has high expectations - that these doctors will come to Poland. It's some kind of new quality. Until now, Polish doctors have been educated in Poland or in stationary mode, for the money that the state pays, or for their own money. When, Commissioner, we said at the committee's meeting: let the Ministry of Health deliver an opinion on this law, you were against it, your colleagues were against it too. Because I said then: this is a new quality of training of Polish doctors. Name the number: how many Polish doctors from outside the Union, doctors who are Poles, are going to come to Poland, and only then let us start the discussion. And you say that you do not know how many Poles want to come to Poland and want to work here. I think you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u77	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I don't know, or you missed my question, or you didn't quite understand it. I clearly, clearly asked how many voivodships since 1 January 2021 will be operating in medical offices, because you imposed such an obligation on them as a government of law and justice almost 2 years ago. Simple, clear, clear question. Stand here and tell me how you've prepared these medical services and how much the voivode is ready to take over. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u79	Thank you very much. The rapporteur is still here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! I do not know how many Polish doctors want to return to Poland, I am unable to tell and no institution has such data, but I know how many Polish doctors wanted and want to leave. In 2015 147 certificates were issued for doctors in the Lower Silesian voivodship, which allowed for work in the West, in the Western countries of the European Union, and in 2019 - 65, while in the Silesian voivodship in 2015 90, and in 2019 - 49. I think this data, and this is the data of local governments, not some party institutions... These are the same data as your medical records. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. This is where we should have a substantive discussion, not that kind of talk, so I'm not gonna answer it. But these are the figures, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u81	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 53 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Act on combating doping in sport (prints No. 762 and 771). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u82	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Sports Committee on the Government's draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport, prints 762 and 771 respectively. What has been regulated in this case, proposed by the government party, results from the adoption at the last year's World Anti-Doping Conference in Katowice of the revised version of the World Anti-Doping Code and International Standards, and this makes it necessary to amend the Act of 21 April 2017. Poland in a very good and modern way fights doping in sport, At a conference that was organized in our country - let us remind you that the former Minister of Sport is the leading person in the fight against doping in the world - regulations have been adopted that have caused some changes to be made before the beginning of the next year. It is worth noting that the members of the committee have worked in accordance with this law and without a vote of opposition recommend that the High House adopt this document. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u83	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u84	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I took part in the speech on the government draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport, print No 762. The project deals with adapting Polish legal standards governing the fight against doping in sport to the revised version of the World Anti-Doping Code and International Standards, which were adopted at the last year's World Anti-Doping Conference in Katowice. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, 19 November this year. sent the above draft law to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism for consideration. Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism immediately after first reading at its meeting on 26 November this year. considered the above mentioned project. Most of the amendments tabled were editorial and precise and were accepted by the government. I kindly inform the High House that the above-mentioned bill raises no objections and will probably improve the effectiveness of the fight against doping in sport. I therefore recommend, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, that the draft contained in the committee's report be adopted, in print No 771. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u85	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's Sports Committee meeting, we discussed issues related to the Sports Doping Act. Of course, this issue is not subject to any conflicts, fighting doping is absolutely crucial and as the Civic Coalition we have not raised any major objections. A few sentences about the project. This is a matter of accepting what was at last year's world conference. What happened in Katowice with regard to anti-doping issues in relation to the anti-doping law of 21 April 2017 - here it was simply necessary to prepare appropriate legislative changes. These changes were discussed at the meeting yesterday, and I think there are no more comments here. As the Civic Coalition Club, we are asking for this bill to be adopted. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u88	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present an opinion on the changes to the anti-doping law adopted on 21 April 2017. These changes were forced in connection with the adoption of the revised version of the World Anti-Doping Code and the new International Standards at the World Anti-Doping Conference in Katowice last year. The new version of the World Anti-Doping Code, together with these International Standards, will apply from 1 January 2021. Since Poland is one of the signatories of the Code, it is therefore obliged to update existing legislation and anti-doping programmes. The changes are technical, adaptable and are not debatable in our opinion. In order to bring the national rules into line with these international codes, we consider it necessary to introduce the proposed provisions in the Anti-Doping Act. The adaptation of these regulations will allow full participation of Polish athletes in international competitions. Therefore, my club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives positively reviews the draft regulation in the anti-doping act. They will contribute to ensuring impartiality, independence and the prevention of conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u89	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Each sport is governed by certain rules and tasks, and among those who practice sports, certain values, such as honesty, health and fair play, play a dominant role. Going on, sport is also fun, joy, sacrifice or commitment. There is no doubt, then, that those who opt for doping violate these principles and, above all, reject respect not only to accepted standards but also to other athletes. Doping itself is a denial of the spirit of sport, a kind of caricature of sports competition. Over the years, measures and methods have changed, which have been widely recognised as doping and, consequently, have been extremely quick to combat them. This was done because it was believed that if sport is to continue to attract young people, create honest mobilization for training and atmosphere, if it is to be a spectacle presenting human strength and determination and the ability of the body, it cannot be a shortcut in it, especially if this road harms not only the quality of sport, but also the health and life of athletes themselves. At the beginning of the 21st century, sport all over the world, not only in Poland, must face the plague of doping in a firm and effective way. Some form of doping can take up to 5% to 25% of all players. On the other hand, the positive results are 1 samples taken from athletes. This itself shows the scale of the problem. The list of measures considered to be doping is dynamically modified together with technological and biotechnology progress. Where new methods of degeneration of what is most beautiful in sport appear, effective methods of combating this pathology are created on the other side. Therefore, it is so important to adapt Polish legislation to the updated content of the World Anti-Doping Code and international anti-doping standards. The Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory will be able to maintain the accreditation of WADA, the World Anti-Doping Agency, thanks to these changes, which will enable further effective activities in the field of analysis and anti-doping research. Particular attention should also be paid to the definition of doping and ensuring the operational and institutional independence of bodies carrying out anti-doping disciplinary proceedings. All this gives the opportunity to effectively fight the phenomenon of doping in Poland. The Act amending the act on combating doping in sport therefore contains provisions that concern the quality of sport and thus contribute to the improvement of the rules of fair play and the integrity of athletes participating in competitions. The Left Club, Minister, will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The idea of sport is based on fair competition, which, based on biological possibilities, depends on a person's hard, often long-term training, a reasonable diet. Sportsmen, which requires additional emphasis these days, are men and women. Not everyone can be an accountant, not everyone can be a miner, not everyone can be a competitive athlete or an Olympic. The competitive sport is elite, which is why people value it and want to watch it. The spoiling of this idea is the use of illegal, illegal chemical support, assistance. This procedure deserves condemnation and a firm fight. The fight against doping resembles the fight against boosters, new products are constantly emerging tempting athletes. If sport is to remain beautiful and interesting in its naturalness, anti-doping activities must keep up in this competition. The bill submitted is technical, adaptable, adapts Polish regulations to the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code, which was amended last year in Poland, in Katowice, during the World Anti-Doping Conference. She deserves support. On this occasion, however, it is worth mentioning closed fitness clubs and gyms, places where people with the greatest resistance and physical health accumulate. Instead of protecting the elderly, training is further reduced for those who are in a low risk group. So that you open gyms and fitness clubs, and at the same time I strongly urge, very hot, to a very cold sport, which is waltzing. The season's about to begin. Lakes and rivers The government won't shut us down. Until then. Don't hurt me. Don't tell me. In addition to the great fun this sport also increases the level of immunity, which is currently advisable. Finally, I would like to mention my sleep from this place. Stefan Tuduja's dad, who's been an athlete his whole life, an athlete. He worked for over three decades in Wrocław's football clubs as a player, then coach and judge. He was a great advocate for fair play. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u94	Thank you. Dear Marshal! I wanted to ask during this discussion: Who of you cannot survive the day without morning coffee? Thank you, I can see your hands up, that's right. And who of you are anxious to experience these sometimes very interesting deliberations, some tigers, blacks, red bulls, etc.? After all, this is our cheering too. All those sweetened drinks, all those candy bars, etc. - that's cheering too. Each of us has a different effect, and maybe there are some that have chicken soup on them, but somehow we're cheering for each other. It's not a big secret, and it's really interested in knowing that one of the reasons why NBA basketball players, top NBA basketball players -- and I'm a basketball fan -- they don't do Olympics and world championships and there's no more dream teams -- is that the whole NBA is based on doping, on anabolics, on that these basketball players are superhumans, so they're faster, so they're more agile, so they don't get tired. Because these games are very tiring, they're very intense. Unfortunately, that's what competitive sport is all about. And every time we discuss it in this way, we have to think about whether we decide to be a competitive sport, which is to use every way to become as strong as possible - like Armstrong, who won a medal after a medal and was an all-powerful champion of his sport, and then it turns out that he won all these medals because he was cheering - we have to think about whether we want to see people reaching their limits, whether we want to see how far people are able to get through the modern achievements of chemistry, thanks to the possibilities that medicine gives us, or whether we want to have a completely amateur sport, within which I, weighing 130 kg, and others here, who are much smaller than me, can run in the marathon. We're never gonna beat any of them, but maybe we'll survive, I'll probably live about 10 kilometers, and then I'll drop dead. That's what it looks like. Either we decide on amateur sports, and then we really limit ourselves entirely, or we decide on professional sports, and here we have to point out that this professional, competitive sport will always be affected by a certain doping dose. It's a doping that is illegal for certain organizations that we want them to be restricted to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, I think that all possibilities should be allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u95	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Member, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a good law, because it disciplines us also those solutions which should be under strict supervision. I just wanted to ask: In the light of this law, does the director of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory not have to have a degree of scientific and professional experience at the moment? What does that tell you? And will the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory not now advise candidates for members of the Disciplinar Panel? Is this request for separation based on bad experiences, or is it designed to create better standards? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Since next year is an important year from the point of view of the timing of the Japanese Olympic Games in Tokyo, I wanted to ask about the work today in the context of the legal changes that we propose, which must be implemented quickly, so that we can be sure that there will be no devastating events involving Polish athletes in the Games. That's what we should remember. The point is that the Minister should talk about the preparation of institutions dealing with the fight against doping in Poland before this big event. And I would like to say to you, a sympathetic colleague from the Confederation, who has given these thesis on sport here, that I think (the bell), Mr President, that we would have to change the definition of sport in order to follow your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u99	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of doping and combating this negative phenomenon, I wanted to ask: Is it true that there are numerous examples of financial doping, cash injections and such financial coke industry in Treasury companies and budgetary units managed by Law and Justice politicians? Because sontekura is nothing but financial doping, and it seems to me that Law and Justice should be disqualified because of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u101	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an adjustment bill, it's a law we need. If we are talking about competition, we must also talk about honesty, about honesty competition in Poland, but also on the international stage. This is one element. But there's another one. Using the Minister's presence today, we should consider what we will do with the sport, what we will do with the COVID movement. Today we've been locked up for a few months or longer in our apartments. We need to create such a program or such incentives that when the COVID is over - and he, hopefully, will end quite quickly - people can leave their homes and absolutely encourage them to make various kinds of efforts. On the other hand, with regard to Mr. Arthur Dziambor's statement - Mr. Arthur, I invite you to the supplies, to sumo, really. [[♪ The bell ♪]] there you can check yourself in an honest way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u103	Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have these questions. Of course, fair play is important in sports and doping sport is not allowed. But our former Minister of Sport Mr Witold Banika recently became president of the World Anti-Doping Agency, and the media report that he is the one on the financial doping mentioned just now by Mr King. I wanted to ask you a question to the Minister of Sport: Is it true that the former Minister of Sport Mr. Witold Bianka has a contract with the Silesian Voivodeship and with the Silesian Stadium as ambassador, and what remuneration does he receive? Please respond in writing. 'Cause if that's the case, I don't think it's right that as an active politician, as a member of the PiS club and the PiS party, he's on financial support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u105	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, all the important words that have been said here, about financial doping, extremely important solutions both in the sphere, I would say, commonly understood as doping, and the one that our sport with this financial doping is absolutely perverted, are needed. On the other hand, I have a question about a slightly different area. Because of the epidemic, there are problems with the organisation of many master events, which were planned in different countries, so perhaps in some cases there will be the possibility of transferring these events to Poland, which of course, for example. as regards Olympic sports and qualification criteria, qualifications would benefit Polish players. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry foresee any funding path for such events which, I would say, could unexpectedly appear in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u107	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very good that this bill came out. Doping must be fought. We as the Civic Coalition will fight among others. with cheering in your government, because it can't be that in Silesia you create financial puddles, and they create financial bubbles. You finance your own people, you let them make extra money, and the sport is suffering in the days of Coronavirus. What are you going to do with these clubs, with various sports companies, whose income today is naturally limited, because you can't play in front of the audience, you don't sell tickets. That's what you're forgetting. You're not doing anything about it, but you're creating the National Sports Centre. In the Law on Departments, Minister, you have lost the record of who and how you will request, e.g. It's about sports scholarships. Unfortunately, it is. Finally, I will ask you in writing how many people, together with Prime Minister Sasin, will burn out more public money and what money it will be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are these people supposed to do so they can work on preparing the European Games in Krakow? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u109	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, This law is an adjustment law that adapts our Polish law to international law. And there is no greater doubt about the introduction of these provisions. However, Minister, sport is the application of fair play rules and really cheering in sport should not take place. On the other hand, we are often also dealing with financial doping. I would like to draw attention to financial support for various sports clubs coming from companies of the Treasury. Why, Minister, is it that some teams in the Polish Extraclasse, e.g. Football Extraclasses, they've got funding from the Treasury companies, and the other ones don't have it? Wouldn't it be better to create such a system so that all the extraclasses will receive equally (the bell) from companies of the Treasury, i.e. companies that are really our common property?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u111	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u112	Professional sport is a continuous race between those who try to use doping, and those who try to ban it. I don't think the officials are gonna be able to win this race against their centralized regulations. That's how they fight, fight and fight. The root of the problem is, first of all, that sport is financed by compulsory public money. Healthy sport is just a sport that is financed by the money of those who want to finance it. In this case, the organisations that will manage it will already ensure that the same rules apply to all. Whether they allow cheering or not, it will be their decision and, above all, the fans. Let us leave sport to our own fate, let us stop spoiling what will work much better and healthier by itself, without state regulations, without officials, without all those activists who sit on their stools and parasitism on taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u113	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act is a technical law which requires an amendment based on the new statute of the World Anti-Doping Code, and what the WADA indicates to us. Of course, the consequence of not approving this change by the end of the year is even the suspension of POLADA or the Polish Olympic Committee, so we have to do it. Of course, fighting doping is essential. If we're dating fair play rules, they have to be uniform, same rules all over the world. On the other hand, on this occasion, using the fact that the Minister is present, we do not have the Ministry of Sport for the first time in a long time, I would like to ask the Minister to tell us how you will really take care of the closed fitness industry - this is health and life, and the condition of Poles - for all clubs that are excluded and do not have government support. I would ask for such information (the bell) using the fact that you are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u115	Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u116	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are working on is very important for the sports community. As a former representative of Poland, I have been examined several times in this respect and I know how important honesty is. Honesty and Fair Game Play is crucial for all athletes, but also for fans, because no one likes cheaters and liars. I am very much in favour of optimizing anti-doping research and maximising the penalty if it is proven to be aware of the use of illicit drugs - for players, but also for those who have stimulated and actively participated in this activity. My question is about the time we met about this project. Since we know that the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Agency have already been established at the time of last year's convention, which was held in Katowice in November last year, and the time of entry is January 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are we looking at this bill so late? Because I will remind you that the legislative process doesn't just end in the Seym, but there is also the Senate and the signature of the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u117	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Papke didn't make it in time, so I will. Doping eats sport, it's his rust. There is a constant need to fight doping, but the Minister, the Anti-Doping Code, was adopted last year at the World Conference in Katowice. It is said that since the beginning of the year work has been in progress in the Ministry to adapt this to Polish regulations and after 11 months there is a project in which the constitutional rules are ignored. The end of November, and the draft contains a provision that the Act is due to enter on 1 January. And now hurry, at Bolt's pace, you want to adopt this bill without considering the legislative terms. Why do you disregard the constitutional powers of the Senate and the President? I know that according to you, the president signs everything and quickly. But why aren't you taking into account the opinions of the Legislative Bureau? Yesterday, Minister, at the committee meeting, you ignored these comments. If we're fighting for chastity in sports, [[♪ The bell ♪]] let us also fight for purity in the adoption of even such draft laws. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u119	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week the government presented and the Sejm adopted a revolutionary law on sport supervision, financing sport and government responsibility for Polish sport. I'm talking about the law on cannons. The government did not consult with any sports association, with any outstanding Polish theorist in the management of sports regulations contained there. I therefore have such a question for the Minister. Who will finance and supervise the Polish Anti-Doping Agency and the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory under the bill we passed last week? I'm talking about the National Sports Center. And one last remark. If we proceed over all laws as fast as this, I am afraid of the High House. There are laws like the National Sports Centre, and there are laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u121	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm using your presence, Minister. Of course, cheering is a very important and important issue, it must be exterminated by all methods and forces, but I have a question, as I said, using your presence. Minister! When does Mr Papke no longer train for the amateurs to whom we belong, the gyms will be opened? An approximate date for us ordinary, so to speak, bread eaters. They're open to players only. The force must be resorting to some sneaky ones, I don't know... To announce the trophy competition, anything else. When will you normally go to the gym? Because it is the Poles and Poles who give mental, physical health. Please specify an approximate date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u123	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With reference to the sympathetic statement made by Mr Dziambor. Various things mobilize us to work in this House, some coffee, other energy drinks, but it mobilises me most when the hercules of the Confederation enter this pulpit, who is not afraid of coritos, nor vaccinations, nor elections. [[Applause]] In fact, all Members who want to have and see sport without doping, I invite you to our sports team for soccer training every Wednesday. The composition is truly unique, MEPs: Bortniczuk, Kownacki, Krajewski, Dziambor, Neumann, Raś. If you want to see the approval of the parliamentarians in one place, you must watch this training. I invite everyone to play sports. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u125	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course it is necessary to severely punish the use of doping, hence the bill on checks, the penalization should be, and this - as we are dealing with - standardized with EU requirements. But I wanted to look at it a little wider. Since we are discussing this, we should probably all be involved in the use of doping - not only in professional sports or whatever we call it, but also among ordinary people - meeting with the so-called. social ostracism and also with punishment. I'm saying this as an old internist. A lot of young men go to the gym, take the so-called. Coke. It's not from doctors. It's not from doctors. It's from doctors. Health developments can be dramatic, and it is probably also necessary to talk about it, to publicize (the bell), to warn people: do not use doping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u127	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport, Ms Anna Krupka, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by asking you a question about how long it takes to process the project. Some work on the project has been slowed down due to the pandemic, hence today's time to process it. When it comes to questions about fitness clubs - such questions have been raised quite often here - first of all, it should be emphasized that fitness clubs and gyms can be used by athletes in sports competitions, sports events and sports activities. This third category it's a very wide exclusion, which in fact enables the functioning of fitness clubs and gyms. Sports activities are understood as any organisation of physical activity. So in gyms or in fitness clubs there can be classes with instructors and trainers. This is basically the main condition to be met for such activities to take place, in addition, of course, to any rules relating to the maintenance of the sanitary regime. As regards assistance to owners of fitness clubs and gyms, as far as I know, proposals for such assistance are being constructed and have already been partly presented by the competent Ministry, the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. This ministry prepared, among others. package addressed to the owners of fitness clubs and gym owners. Questions were raised about the organisation of master events in Poland, the resources needed and possibly the means guaranteed for this purpose. Of course, the Ministry of Sport, specifically the Department of Professional Sport, organizes annual programs related to the promotion of such events. So that if someone knows about such a party, if someone would like to organize such a event in Poland, they can, of course, apply for funds for this purpose as part of the competition. There were questions about the promotion of sport after the pandemic. The Ministry of Sport annually devotes to the widely understood promotion of sport, to sport activation of both young people and seniors... All the promotional programs this year... We have allocated over PLN 280 million to a widely understood goal called sport in our country. It's over 140%. more than in 2015 Of course, next year the resources we will have will increase. If we take into account the budgetary resources and funds contained in the funds, we will have a total of PLN 1396 million. This is an increase of 88 million PLN. It is likely that this appropriation will also be used for universal sport, promoting physical activity, encouraging it and showing how important this activity is, how it affects our health and the quality of our lives. But it's less than TVP. I also wanted to answer the question that one of the Members asked concerning the National Sports Centre. Polish sports unions will be able to apply for scholarships to the President of the National Sports Centre. According to the Law on Departments, which passed a week ago by the Sejm, the National Sports Centre will be supervised by the Minister responsible for physical culture, while the Polish Anti-Doping Agency and the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory will be subject to the National Sport Centre (Dawn). For the rest of the questions, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will answer in writing. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the parliamentarians for their smooth handling of this law. Fighting doping in sport, fighting for pure sport is a priority for the Ministry of Sport and the Polish government. I am pleased that it is also a priority for your parliamentarians. I'm glad there's an agreement on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u129	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u130	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Briefly. I would like to thank the Minister and all the members of the committee very much for being unanimous on a matter that is important. not only for Polish sport. If we're talking about doping, we should look at it through the interests of all athletes. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u131	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 54 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the urgent government draft law amending the law on works concession contracts or services and certain other laws (prints Nos 765 and 777). I ask Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the work of the Sejm Economic Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the Contract for Construction or Services, the Law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws. The bill was the subject of a committee meeting yesterday. First of all, I would like to thank all Members for their active participation in the work and their thorough reading. The essence of this project is primarily to adapt the provisions relating to concession works contracts to the new Public Procurement Law, which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2021. This is one of the successive work to adapt the legal system affected by public procurement law, which is the result of consultations during the current period of vacathio legis. Let us remind that the new Public Procurement Law entered into force, was prepared on 11 September 2019 with this long period of vacathio legis just so that this legal order was adapted to the new law. In this law, including the submission above all, the proposed amendments take into account the requests and opinions made by representatives and participants of the entire public procurement market, both the contracting party and the contractors. The most important changes that have been designed, particularly in the field of concessions, are the adaptation, as I said, of the provisions of the Public Procurement Law, including, above all, the exclusion from the obligation to apply the Act, the establishment of rules for communication between contracting entities and economic operators and the grounds for excluding economic operators from the concession contract procedure. With regard to changes in the Public Procurement Law, as these are also elements of this submission, the provisions of the new and more flexible procedure for contracts below the EU thresholds are clarified. Basic mode. The provisions have been repealed, and this is also the result of a long consultation on the so-called. small orders, i.e. orders worth between 50 and 130 thousand. zł. The prohibition on contracts for more than 4 years shall also be abolished in respect of the award of contracts. The Public Procurement Law in this submission also complements regulations on legal remedies, e.g. issues relating to the taking of evidence in appeal proceedings. The third law, which this submission amends, is also the Public-Private Partnership Act, where a catalogue of provisions of the new law is defined, for which the provisions of the Public Procurement Law will not apply. In addition to the adjustment, what are the expected effects of this submission? This is above all an increase in the transparency and legibility of the public procurement system. This is also a clarification and complement to the regulation of the new Public Procurement Law. Finally, and this is the strong emphasis placed by the submitter, the government side, in the end the long-term development of infrastructure and services with the financial commitment of the private sector, which in fact is served by the famous Public Procurement Law, which was adopted last year. Among the requirements, the regulations that adapt the bill to the Public Procurement Law are also e.g. the definition of thematic areas such as the definition of the contracting authority, the exclusion of the application of the concession contract law or the determination of the threshold of applicable concession contract rules to contracts concluded. Interpreting doubts that may arise in connection with the application have also been removed in order to best reflect EU and EU procurement directives. I kindly ask the High Sejm to accept the project and hand it over for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u133	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Kamil Bortniczuk, Mr Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Act on a Contract for Construction or Services and some other laws. The adoption of legislative action on this issue is due to the need to adapt the provisions of the concession contract law to the wording of the new regulations of the Act - Public Procurement Law, which enters into force on 1 January 2021. The concession contract law is closely linked to the law governing the operation of public contracts both in substance, terminology and editorial terms. Many institutions and issues are regulated in the same way as in public contracts and failure to comply with the concession contract law with the amendments introduced by the Public Procurement Law could lead to legal uncertainty as a result of differences in interpretation concerning identical legal institutions governed by those laws. Therefore, it is necessary to adapt the concession contract law accordingly to the changes introduced in the public procurement system. Issues from the concession area need to be corrected both in the concession contract law and in the provisions implementing the law - Public procurement law. These include, in particular, the question of the threshold, the application of the law, the definitions contained in the law, the grounds for exclusion of economic operators and legal protection before a mixed procurement court. The draft law also makes detailed amendments to the law itself - Public procurement law, which in particular concerns a simplified procedure below the Union thresholds, the National Board of Appeal, legal protection measures and the control system for the operation of contracts. The draft also includes a revision of the provision on the value of salaries. The draft law also amends the Public-Private Partnership Act. The essence of this change is to define a catalogue of provisions of the new law - Public Procurement Law, which will not apply to public-private partnership agreements. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for this regulation. At the same time, I submit to the Marshal an amendment aimed at updating the references to the Act - Public Procurement Law contained in the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u136	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition regarding printing No. 765, i.e. the government draft law amending the Act on works or services concessions and certain other laws. On 1 January 2021, the provisions of the Act of 11 September 2019 will enter into force. The regulations introduced also concern matters governed by the Act of 21 October 2016 on a works concession or service contract. It is therefore necessary, of course, to amend it in order to avoid differences of interpretation. The print project No 765 amends the Act of 21 October 2016 on a concession contract for works or services, the Act of 19 December 2008 on public-private partnership, the Act of 11 September 2019. In view of the changes made, it should be considered that this is a rather thorough amendment of this law, and we believe that this should change the title of the draft law. We're amending laws that aren't actually in force yet. The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2021. This raises doubts for many, including the Sejm lawyers, legislators, who believe that this is a strange situation, and it raises doubts for us. It also wonders why the work on this project begins one year after the adoption of the law on which the rules are limited. This is the reason why the project is considered as a matter of urgency. On the other hand, the provisions of the Act which have not yet entered into force are to be amended. So far, it has been the reality that has verified whether the rules introduced are correct. This time the records were wrong before they came into force. It is also worth pointing out that the project aims to implement European Union law and consists in the implementation of concession Directive 2014/23/EU, which is not a novelty and that the other Member States have already introduced appropriate regulations in their legal order. The draft plans to adapt the provisions relating to the definition of the Contracting Authority, to exclude the application of the concession contract law, to define the threshold for applying the provisions of the concession contract contract to contract contracts, to provide for information on the updating of the value of the Union threshold for concession contracts, to mixed concessions covering at the same time different types of concession contracts, to: works, services, social services, other specific services, and to provide on the basis of different legal regimes, to include among the principles of concluding concession contracts the need to detect and eliminate conflicts of interest, reserved concessions and contracts for social and other specific services, as well as the criteria for assessing tenders and the rules for bringing actions before the Court under legal protection measures for the conclusion of the concession contract. It is also planned to abandon the introduction of a new law on public procurement of small-scale procurement solutions, i.e. contracts with a value of less than 130 000. PLN, but not less than 50,000. zł, and the departure from the intention to limit the conclusion of public procurement contracts only to 4 years. However, I stress once again that this project should be examined earlier, and it should therefore be considered appropriate to amend the date of entry into force of this provision. I believe that the relevant date will be 1 July 2021, but it is important that such a change is also introduced in the Public Procurement Law of 11 September 2019. It is too late for the proposed amendments to enter into force within a reasonable period of time. It cannot be that those affected by the changes do not know at the end of November what legal status they will be working in since January. There are, of course, questions about how to train employees when legislation is introduced at the last minute, why there are still no ready implementing acts for the revised Public Procurement Law last year, when an e-procurement platform is launched to enable the acceptance of offers and requests for participation in proceedings. She should be running in the second quarter, but we don't know if she's gonna run, of course. This also increases the Polish County Association. And as it is, ladies and gentlemen - this is the most important question - that we are creating a law that needs to be revised before it enters into force. It's a little grotesque. The state of play on the implementation of the Public Procurement Law, the regulations implementing the Act and the tools to enable the electronicisation of public contracts should be considered as far from expected. I believe that the relevant date will be 1 July 2021. However, it is important that the amendment is also introduced in the Public Procurement Law of 11 September 2019. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm putting two amendments into your hands, Marshal. There you go. Thank you. They concern, first of all, the amendment of the name of the bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because, in our opinion, first of all, the Public Procurement Law is being amended, and second, the moment of the Act's entry into force. We want this law to enter into force on 1 July 2021, and the adoption of these amendments, above all the latter, is subject to support for this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u137	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here's the bill we're discussing. Please pay attention to the volume and time we all had to work on this bill. The Act has the title of amending the Act on works or services concessions and certain other laws. Of course, it is a misleading name, because they are here - and very well, we have been waiting for it - regulated contracts of concessions according to European Union standards, but in fact it is a revolution in the Law of Public Procurement. The Public Procurement Law since 2004 in which it was adopted has been amended more than 70 times. It's another change, and it's a big change. Therefore, these ideas, presented also at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs or just now, e.g. The name of this law is to change it, it is to be logical. But first things first. As far as the codification of the European Union is concerned, yes, what we have been waiting for is a reference to the 2014 European Parliament Directive, the so-called 'European Parliament Directive'. Directive 214/23/EU, with a permanent update to the European Commission in its implementing acts and the introduction of the Union threshold, and the threshold in zlotys, not in euro, in order to avoid cumbersome, sometimes legally dangerous conversions at which rate the euro is converted into zlotys. So that's what we're assured. Various contractual options are discussed here, including with international organisations, international funding organisations, funding institutions, and thus whether the agreement will only be sectoral, or whether it will also have other components, public procurement or activities covered by the Article. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On the other hand, as far as the various strategic fundamental changes in the Public Procurement Law are concerned, there is a great deal of this. This applies not only to amendments to this law, but also to amendments to the Public Law on Public Partnership, for example. These are the changes mentioned by the previous speakers about trivial orders and many other changes, including the penalization system, about the activities of the KIO, the National Board of Appeal. And it is very good that there are these regulations, that I speak with all conviction, and it goes too fast. Maybe, and I suggest to everyone, let's move on to the creation of a code of public tasks, so that finally after long, joint work the catechism of economic activity is created almost, because it is not fully possible, but almost ultimately. Public procurement law is a powerful tool for all of us, for the whole country, because public procurement law shapes the economy of the state, affects the ability to achieve strategic social and political objectives, is extremely important for labour market policy, the fight against unemployment, for various economic and development purposes. And public procurement law must be really refined. I maintain here our joint request made yesterday in the development committee to delay the entry into force of this law until 1 July 2021, because the contracting authority is not prepared and will not be able to prepare. We have an epidemic, an investment process, a service process through public procurement should go smoothly, without interruptions, and the entry into force of the law will disrupt it. People are untrained, they don't know how to act so that there is no legal risk, no violation of public finances discipline, no administrative penalties, no financial penalties. We don't even have a ready order platform (the bell), we just have a proposal that the miniportal, which has been working so far, will temporarily become a miniportal of Bis. It's such a preparation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, in place of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a member of this committee, I have the honour to express my opinion on the report of the committee on the urgent draft law amending the law on works or services concessions and certain other laws. Of course, we agree with the interpretation of all those who have spoken earlier, saying that the name is misleading and should be completely different. The adoption of the new Public Procurement Law, of course, results in the need to push through the provisions of the concession contract law in the next step towards changes in the public procurement system, so that together with the new Public Procurement Act. it has created a coherent system that responds to significant market problems. But whether this coherent system will be, we also have many doubts about this, which have already been expressed from this speaker. The new Public Procurement Law, we believe, does not meet all the expectations of both public entities and contractors applying for public procurement for many years. We have doubts as to whether these numerous changes will increase transparency and consistency of regulation and whether they will put in place solutions to improve the efficiency of public procurement - e.g. the amendments to the concession contract law. Therefore, our club will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u141	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u142	We need to start with this speech by asking: Why do we need to change the law again before it comes into force? I understand that this is complicated matter. This law itself now has 50 pages, the mother law on public procurement has over 150, but it was only last year when we passed it. The new Public Procurement Law was rewritten and adopted last September and is due to enter into force from the beginning of 2021. If you've already written a whole new bill, then why the hell didn't you think straight away about all the changes in the related laws? What would hurt us once in our lives to do something crazy and write the whole project properly, prepare a whole package of coherent laws, then vote them once and not change them for 10 more years? What would hurt us? And we make one bill, and then we remind ourselves that the second law has to be amended. And for the last moment, just before it comes into force, we're going to make a second one, but we're going to remind ourselves that something else needs to be changed in the first one. If I know life, it won't end there: then we'll change the third and we'll correct the previous two. I have the impression that Pat and Mat from the Czech evening watch over our legislation. I'm gonna see a picture of the prime minister with government law experts. Pat and Mat did that, too, so that first they wallpapered the apartment around, and then they wondered where the doors and windows were, and there they cut the holes. That reminds me of our law school. It is still worth noting the speed of proceding, as the previous speakers have already said. I know our House is getting used to it more and more, but I wanted the protocol to go so that the posterity, when they read it, would know that we disagreed with the fact that it didn't suit us at all, that within one day we were pushing laws to change a large piece of law. The greatest emotion in this bill is the issue of selective exclusion. We exclude from the vending machine performers convicted of such serious crimes as this. We find it non-obligatory to shoot the counter or exploit it, while excluding it as a crime against the environment. At this point, the justification is crazy, because it talks about trusting officials and unnecessary paperwork, that if there are many contracts with a given entity, it does not need to be repeated. But after all, the paperwork stays the same, only there were other indications, so it has to be ruled out. The content of this statement will therefore change only slightly. What about trust? Why do we trust officials on environmental crimes, and when it comes to filming the meter, they are no longer responsible enough? I think that this bizarre casuistic must be levelled either one way or the other: let's leave the officials the choice in all cases, or let's set a simple criterion, e.g. that the crime is punishable by a sentence of one year in prison or that it's a crime from some section of the Penal Code, not such a bizarre calculation doesn't know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u144	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Public procurement law is such a strange legislative monster. Not only is it a colossus, it is written in such a language that it is absolutely incomprehensible to a normal person. Here my previous speaker, honourable colleague Dobromir Sosnierz, said: maybe we should do something crazy and finally do it right. And maybe we should finally sit on it and do it well: once we find out that there will be a bill that will be written briefly, concisely, understandablely and will be done so that it does not have to be updated before it comes into force, just as we are doing now. It is also such a fetish of the Government of Law and Justice that laws are being amended that are not yet functioning. This happened also a month ago during the revision of the Doctor's raises Act, but it was a mistake, and I don't blame you. I blame you for a lot of other things. There's only one thing I wanted to pay attention to. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the Public Procurement Law, we are constantly overlooking this, and we should talk about what the lowest contractor looks like, the one who is very often a subcontractor, the one that is completely ignored, the small, small entrepreneur who usually owns his own business or owns a small company and who unfortunately often lands as a person cheated, exploited by a large corporation, a large company that has won an appropriate tender on the basis of the Public Procurement Law. That should be taken care of, in which, unfortunately, I do not see it all the time. I hope the House will take care of this soon. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u145	Thank you. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have one basic question. We've recently made changes to the Public Procurement Act. The number of entries that this law contains concerns the Public Procurement Act, which has not yet entered into force. And the basic question is, why do you change the title of the law, not talk about the Public Procurement Act and not introduce it as a modification of the Public Procurement Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u147	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u148	There are almost no implementing acts for the bill, but they are only proposed. And I have questions for the government because there's a lot of confusion in this project. Is that to be counted if you don't want more specific changes to the bill? Will there be precise decisions in the implementing acts on the rules for determining the value of the contract in relation to the aggregation of the contract, which is not allowed, artificial merger of contracts? Will it be explained exactly what the final offer is in terms of a possible additional offer? In addition, with regard to Article. 275 Public procurement rights, under what conditions will additional negotiations take place? As I say, the records are unclear, they give the right to different interpretations. And also the question: When and at all will a one-off purchase be defined in the implementing act? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For years, this has aroused doubts and suspicions of breaking the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u149	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Urgent government bill - Public procurement law, construction... It's urgent, but for who? Because the government worked on it in 2016 and 2019, and for local governments, there is no time for entrepreneurs. The project, a radical project of major changes, is due to enter into force on 1 January, and there are no current legal acts, there is no e-platform for public procurement, and the consequences and penalties are foreseen radically in this project. This project should enter at least from 1 July so that we have time for entrepreneurs to prepare for the implementation of this project. Otherwise it will be as usual - chaos, confusion, for which you will blame local governments and entrepreneurs. The coalition club will support this project only if our amendments are taken into account, the implementation of the project from 1 July. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u151	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Too late, far too late the bill was sent to the Sejm. There's nothing worse for the economy, there's nothing worse for entrepreneurs than last minute change. Public procurement law on the one hand must protect public finances, on the other hand it must not hamper economic processes. This law also refers to public-private partnerships. Public-private partnership, which in fact does not work in Poland, because when we talked about it, we imagined its functioning completely differently, and it will not function until there is a good atmosphere in this direction. And one last thing. The Public Procurement Act has been amended several times. It would be good to sit down and think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that these changes are not so often made that they function in the longer term. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u153	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this bill is a very visible sign of a legal mess that introduces the Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice into public life, into economic life. The bill has not yet entered into force and we probably have about 100 amendments to this law. This is absolutely reprehensible and unacceptable, so that the law is passed in such a way. I am curious if if the former Minister was running the company and dealing with such dynamics of legal changes, changes in the fundamentals of its functioning, it would be able to operate economically in this company at all. It seems, however, that most economies must devote much more time to bureaucracy than to real activities. This is the result of this government's activities. But I have a question: When will the electronic platform be created? The state, the government did not lead to it being created, launched. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When's it gonna start functioning? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u155	Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u156	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The new Public Procurement Law resigned from the draft law on the use of the amount expressed in euro and introduced a fixed threshold for the application of the law expressed in zlotys. This threshold will be 130,000. PLN, which represents approximately the equivalent of PLN 30 thousand. the euro in the existing legislation. What factors determine this amount, and why is this threshold at this level rather than at others? And second question. Will every 2 years always be governed by the definition of the EU threshold, which will refer to existing EU legislation at a given time, amending the EU directive on procedures for the conclusion of concession contracts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u157	Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u158	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, you might say that the changes that you have made in this law are going in the right direction and you could support your law, but the problem is that we are trying to work on changes that have not yet entered into force that have not yet begun to function. I have questions. Firstly, why did you wait so long to adopt the EU Directive of 2014? It's 2020. That's one thing. Secondly, I repeat the question: Will it be and when will this previously mentioned platform for public procurement be launched? Are you considering, first of all, amending the Public Procurement Law? Because, in fact, this is what the amendment to this law is about. And second of all, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or You're going to... Thank you very much. ...agree to our proposal for this law to enter into force on 1 July 2021? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u159	The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mr Marek Nieżak, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u160	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There were a few topics that came back in particular questions. The most important thing is, of course, the date of entry into force, and I will refer to it in the final order. There was a question about this level of 130,000. zł. It was very highly consulted with the market, with the contractors, with the contracting authorities. This is the amount corresponding to about the average of what is in force in other EU countries and around it. That's why it's about that amount. Market consultation, average from other EU countries. I would like to correct: this is a project in which we do not regulate, we do not impose any new penalties. It's a question of whether such a voice fell and I think he's a little confusing. There was a question about the regulation. Firstly, I would like to say that they will be issued soon, but first of all their projects have been known since July, they have been consulted with the market about 2 months and the public procurement market knows their content. So don't make such an impression that we're gonna surprise this market with something here. It's the opposite. There was a question about the name of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, the name is in line with the suggestion made by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, the legislators of this House. And that's what was passed at the committee meeting. So let me be honest, the question is, why is that name... We've accepted the suggestion of the Sejm's Legislative Office. Do you wish to adopt any other ideas? In this respect, we are based on suggestions from Parliament's legislators. You say there are a lot of changes to the bill. The vast majority of them These are point changes, cleaning, legislative changes. But there is also a question that, I think, is very good, which deserves an answer. I'd like to do it now. Why are we changing it now, if she hasn't come into force yet? Let life verify her. I would say that under normal conditions absolutely yes, but see how long the vacathio legis gave this bill to the Sejm, the Senate of the previous term - a dozen months. It's just so the market can get ready for first. I know very well that during these several months such preparations have taken place. There's a lot of training, the market really lived it, and it's very interested for obvious reasons that I'm going to talk about at the end. We ourselves, the Ministry, the Public Procurement Office have held dozens of meetings and I think there have been almost 100 of them in recent times, of course on-line. We have gathered, also from the market, the conclusions of these meetings. Sometimes there were questions about how to read whether you meant it or not. This voice is just a market verification. Because just because the regulation hasn't come into force yet doesn't mean the market doesn't know it. The market knows it. This is, moreover, a law, you know very well, created in the last term together with the market that has been passed by KWRIST, the Joint Committee of Government and Territorial Self-Government, which, of course, went through consultations, the RDS, agreements. So these aren't records that surprise the market. And now the most important thing - the date of entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen, she has been known for several months for both contracting and economic operators. If you want to postpone this for six months today, please tell the entrepreneurs that solutions such as the value of wages, compulsory payment of parts and advances, the catalogue of abusive clauses, the limitation of contractual penalties, and - as one Member has rightly argued - those concerning subcontractors, protection for subcontractors, will apply six months later that in such difficult time for entrepreneurs you do not want to give them such tools. Tell them now. Very often I hear from this side, and I take it for a good coin that you care about entrepreneurs. If you care about entrepreneurs, if you care about contractors, I suggest you stay on 1 January. I'm sure if you ask the contractor's side, you'll hear that it would be better if this bill came into force right now. Moreover, many or several of these solutions concerning performers in a completely unusual mode, we have already placed COVID in shields. It is precisely because they serve the liquidity of entrepreneurs. And at such a difficult time, they need it very, very much. Therefore, I would very much ask everyone to support this submission. It was created from a dialogue with the market, the market is not surprised by this. It has been agreed and consulted for a very long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u161	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Emilewicz, would like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanking you for this debate and for your questions, I would like to address a few of them, I think, of the most important, fundamental, complementing Minister Mark Niebóżak's speech. Firstly, I would like to dispel some doubt, even though I did it several times yesterday in the Committee on Economics and Development. I don't understand why we're repeating the same mistakes again. Mr Cichoń was kind enough to bring here a rhyme of paper with the bill we are supposedly submitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is not new. These are amendments to the Act on works concessions or services which align this law with the Public Procurement Law and - indeed - several amendments to the Act - Public Procurement Law, which we adopted last year, which was the subject of several years of work. This was one of the last laws adopted by the Sejm of the previous term of office, which I had the pleasure of leading together with you. It was a law - yes, Madam President - that was discussed and discussed in many bodies and in many fora. As Minister Niechak said, today the market is waiting for this bill. I'm going to repeat these solutions again. Waiting for valorization. He's waiting for a subroutine clause to be introduced. He's waiting to limit his contractual penalties. Finally, subcontractors, which we have so often heard about in the past 4 years, are also waiting for solutions which are in the Act - Public Procurement Law. To postpone the entry into force of the business would not forgive us. They would not forgive us, representing the parliamentary majority, but they would also not forgive the opposition legitimizing itself with pro-frontal attitudes. What about the e-platform? Answers to specific questions. The question about the electronicisation of orders. Yes, we've implemented it, we're doing it, and I dare say we're doing it with good logic. The purchasing platform will be one of the largest information platforms available on the public side. This mini-portal, which has been in force since 18 October 2018, prepared with the Public Procurement Office, today is a benchmark for market solutions, treated as one of the most friendly IT solutions with which the market has become familiar - again both the local government, government, public administration widely understood and those who use this portal, i.e. contracting. From 1 January, the improved version of this mini-portal will enter into force. Again, you ask: it's a completely new system. We do it logically - using the language of computer scientists - agile, incremental. Since 1 January, improved solutions have been growing, extended, and the full new portal, built on the experience gained from the platform, which is in force today, will be available from March next year. So these are solutions prepared together with the market. This will not be an IT solution, which sometimes occurs in the public domain, which is not adapted to the requirements. This solution actually works, it is tested on the version - let's say - a trial, which has been in force since 18 October 2018. I wanted to thank Mr Jaros for the information, because I think this is the best review of this presentation, saying that these are good changes, that these are the positive changes that the market is waiting for today. So once again thanking you for your work, thanking you for the very detailed discussion on the bill yesterday, I would like to remind you that this is not a new monumental bill. It is a law that adapts the concession law to the Public Procurement Law, which will enter into force from 1 January. In view of your comments on why we are improving something that has not yet entered into force, I will answer: by presenting this law here last year, taking into account the market's comments, but also taking into account the opposition's comments, we said: we are giving such a long vacathio legis, almost 1.5 years vacathio legis, so that during the discussion, during the training that we will be conducting - we will still be able to analyse this Code Act very carefully - we can make the necessary changes during the next year. In this spirit and in line with this logic, the government today submitted to us by the Minister of Development this law adapting the concession law to the Law of Public Procurement. It is also worth mentioning that one of the important demands for a change in the small-scale procurement that has been introduced here is also the result of a meeting and meeting with a joint committee of government and local government. It is at the request of representatives of the local government that this change in the Public Procurement Law is introduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore hope that this submission will have the support of the House in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u163	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 55 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the special rules for preparing and implementing investments in the field of public use airports (prints Nos 761 and 774). I ask Mr Caesar Grabarczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't see the Minister. Yesterday, 26 November, a meeting of the Infrastructure Commission took place during which the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Special Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, print No 761 took place. This bill has already been amended. It was adopted during the 2007-2011 term and allowed for a revolution in the Polish airport industry. The original law was adopted on 12 February 2009. Thanks to this law, we changed the infrastructure that allowed us to change the Polish aviation market. It turned out that investments in regional airports, both those in the TEN-T trans-European transport network and those which are not on the network, have led to changes in the aviation market. Today, regional ports operate more air traffic than Okęcie airport. That means we've made a breakthrough. Thanks to the Law on Special Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, more than PLN 6 billion was invested in airports by 2012. The aim is to ensure that the necessary investments can be carried out further. Therefore, Art. 4a according to the Government's submission, it is to be amended in such a way that applications for permission to carry out airport investments can be submitted by 31 December 2025. Why is this change necessary? This is because the deadline for submitting applications is 31 December 2020 in the light of current law, i.e. practically in a month's time. Without this amendment, no new applications can be submitted on the basis of an airport specialty. Therefore, yesterday's committee unanimously supported this proposal and I hereby request that the High House adopt the amendment submitted in the draft law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u165	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jerzy Paul on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the Law on Special Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, print No 761. The current Law of 12 February 2009 on airport investment will remain in force until the end of this year. The government of the Republic of Poland proposes to extend the term of the so-called. airport specialty until 30 December 2025. The adoption of this proposal to amend the law will allow to carry out planned and already started investments at Polish airports in an undisturbed manner. Another positive aspect of this law will be the maintenance of workplaces at airports, as well as in construction companies in the area and within airports. We must not forget that airports contribute to the rapid development of individual regions of our country, which is particularly important for the inhabitants of these parts of Poland. As a club, we are convinced that the amendment of the bill will result in new investments and the creation of new jobs, which at the present time is a pandemic, it can be said, at the weight of gold. We must also take into account the fact that the absence of an amendment to this law will block the possibility for airport owners and companies to invest in them for funding from the European Union, which could lead to a fall and certainly to the blocking of these companies. High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, for supporting air, rail and road investments, which has an impact on the development of our homeland, and also prevents the rise of unemployment. In view of the above, Law and Justice support and vote in favour of the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u167	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens, I am pleased to present an opinion on the draft law on amending the Act on special rules for preparing and implementing investments in the field of public use airports. Ladies and gentlemen! A law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports is a good law. It is a law that has made it possible to implement a number of key investments for the development of air transport and to improve its safety. This law, which not only helped to prepare Poland for the organisation of the 2012 European Football Championship, also contributed to the development of regional airports and thus to the attractiveness of many regions of Poland. Finally, it is a law that has once again been recognised by the High House. I am pleased that the government of PiS benefits not only from the results of good infrastructure policy implemented by the Civic Platform - Polish People's Party in 2007 and 2015 but also from good law then prepared. For the first time, the High House extended this law in 2016, and today we will decide to extend it until the end of 2025. It's a good decision and the Civic Coalition club supports it. I'd like to take this opportunity to make a few points. Yesterday, during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, I asked Minister Horala to identify the airport investments made by this law. I was surprised to hear that an example of such an investment is the new runway at the airport Katowice - Pyrzowice. I would like to remind you that the decision to build this belt was made in 2008 and the construction started in 2013 and the belt was put into service in May 2015. On the other hand, I am not surprised by the pride of the PiS government with such investments made by their predecessors. [[Applause]] And one last thing. Investing in airport infrastructure is not only about building it but also about protecting it during the crisis. You can't brag about regional airports built by your predecessors, and at the same time you can't help these airports when the crisis comes. Remember, this is not the last aviation crisis. If you can't help small airports like Lublin or Łódź today, how will you manage to help the great airport you want to build in Baranów? I'll leave that to you for consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u169	Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present our position on the draft amendment to the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. As we know, yesterday at the committee meeting, this project was unanimously accepted by all parliamentary clubs. This law, which began in 2009, was based primarily on the urgent need to expand airports, including regional airports, in connection with the implementation then Euro 2012 in Poland. This law has already been amended once, it has been extended. This deadline expires at the end of this year and therefore there was a need to amend this law, because 2020 has shown that unfortunately aviation is in a very difficult situation today in relation to the pandemic. We hope that the extension of the deadline for applying for new investments in airport areas by 2025 will allow the aviation industry to exit from this crisis. We believe that these proposals will come, but we expect the government to support regional airports in a significant way, because today they can't do it without the government's help. Marshal's offices, local governments of big cities are not able to help those airports where they fell today. simply the turnover and the number of passengers using airports decreased. On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to say that my club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u171	Mr Stefan Krajewski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland on the government draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, print Nos 761 and 774. The amendment is to extend the deadline by which an application for an airport investment can be submitted - a public objective - by the end of 2025. According to the current wording of this specification, it is possible to submit an application for a public airport investment by 31 December 2020. This extension is mainly due to the fact that the draft amendment will also cover the deadline for submitting an application for a public airport, including projects accompanying the construction of the Central Communication Port. And that's the worst part of it, because the fact that you have to make investments and you have to plan these things is also the government of law and justice... Law and Justice politicians before the election said that they would consult with the public. However, there is no such consultation, the social side does not count at all at the moment. $3,000. people in the vicinity of Baranów wonder what the future awaits them, what rules it will be done. Of course, the specialty is the easiest thing to do, but there must be some order and logic in it. CPK - Kaczyński's central laundry, because this is how you have to develop this shortcut. Nothing works, and the money goes. [[Applause]] Everyone who's been there, they're already getting the money. And those spokes that were beautifully presented here at committee meetings, in these beautiful apps, look wonderful. But what about the people it's about to touch in the future? Nobody's wondering, no one's asking. Of course, those who use government places here - they're not all interested. They're here, in Warsaw. But all you have to do is go out in the field, talk to people, see what social moods are today connected with these plans that have been presented. In fact, we have been hearing for several years - and this has been increasing for campaigning or parliamentary or presidential elections - what great plans it will be, how much it will be. Because these plans are and will be, I just suspect that 2025 is not the last year until which it is extended, because it will probably need further extensions. And that's probably where you need to be, like the committee. And yesterday she noticed, she extended the deadline by five years. Let's also think about what's going on with regional airports, because yesterday we heard beautifully: where it doesn't run the airport, the law and justice representative doesn't run the airport, it's wrong and the criticism was full. On the other hand, regarding the airport in Rzeszów we heard that there may be economic losses, but on the connections we gained, there may be better access for the Podkarpackie region, for the whole of Poland and for Europe. So this operation of airports, I think, should also be discussed exhaustively. The High House should also know - not only the members of the committee, but also everyone - what it will look like in the near future. Because we know that these airports are largely in deficit today. They are deficit not only due to the COVID, although today much more, but also... I've seen that kind of signal before. And there is probably also the theme of the regional airport in Podlaskie Voivodeship, because there was a lot of criticism from the opposition, Law and Justice that such an airport was not created. For over two years now, the PiS marshal has been in charge, and I wonder if there are any plans to build this airport or whether there will still be blame on the predecessors. If somebody's done it wrong before, you have to do it. It's good, it's better, and it looks different after all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here at every turn there is criticism, but nothing forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u173	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the Central Industrial District as you build the Central Communication Port was built before the war, even one shovel would not have been inserted into the COP until 1 September 1939. That's the first point. The pace of these works is simply some horrendous and this investment has a chance to become such a monster project, which unfortunately is much after 1989. As far as the economic rationality of such solutions is concerned, my previous speaker mentioned here an airport in Podlaskie Voivodeship, where, for years, practically for decades, there have been divisives, plans and reflections. I was also asked this in the election campaign last year during one of the economic debates in Bialystok. To answer this question, whether and where an airport should be established in Podlaskie Voivodeship, I answered as follows: the airport in Podlaskie Voivodeship should be created when its existence will have economic meaning. And when will its existence make economic sense? Then, when we will carry out maximum extensive trade and trade in goods, but also human, with the East: with Belarus, Lithuania, Latvia, Russia, so that the concentrated airport in this region can handle significant traffic also east of our borders. And the same applies, in macroscale of course, to the issues of the Central Communication Port. The location of Poland predestines us to be a great transport hub as a country, as a whole, as a country which is at the intersection of the roads east-west, north-south in Europe, the narrowest place between the Baltic and the Carpathians. This, of course, is possible, of course, all the time it is possible to make Poland that is the foal, the place where serious, powerful money is really made, that you are a trading bridge between the East and the West, of course the East understood in a modern way, in the 21st century. This modernity today tells us, above all, about the centre of the world's economic life, which has been moving towards East Asia consistently for decades. And in order to make economic sense again and to be this transport hub, in order to carry out this function, it is necessary to pursue a foreign policy other than that of the state, i.e. Do not set yourself clearly in a Chinese-American rivalry in a chariot of one or the other power. You should look harder. Germany or, for example, Hungary, for the policy pursued in this area in Central Europe. Hungary, four times the size of our population, has jumped us several times in terms of investments from the Middle States, Chinese investments. It is Hungary that is modernising the line that is to run through Belgrade, Budapest and in the port of Piraeus that ends or, on the other hand, start and also be the part of the transport coming just from East Asia through Central Europe. In order to pursue a sensible economic policy based on the fact that we are a shopping centre not only for Europe, but more broadly: Eurasia, the whole of this great megacontinent, also in the Atlantic direction, needs to pursue a more sensible foreign policy, a more multi-vector international policy. You can't get caught up in a chariot, whether it's Brussels or Washington's interests. And we have to tell the West once and for all: we want to work with you economically, militaryly, politically, but we also need to stop paying homage to the faithful. whether it is in Brussels, Berlin or Washington, and unfortunately all governments after 1989 format Polish politics in this way. In order for the Central Communication Port to make sense for it to have a future, so that such investments and this kind of role of Poland are actually profitable, we need to open up more... Careful. Of course, carefully, because these Chinese investments are also of a different nature, of course, carefully, but we simply need to open ourselves to wide cooperation with Asia, especially with East Asia, South-East Asia, which is where the new center of economic life of the world is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u175	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Over 20 people volunteered. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition Club. Of course, I close the list of applications and set the question time for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The strategy for the sustainable development of transport by 2030, adopted by the government in 2019, of course includes the construction of a central port - this date is clearly indicated - by 2027. In addition, it is necessary to connect the railway network with this airport and this is also included in the strategy. I wanted to ask you about this part of Poland in which I live today, i.e. from the Czech border through the western subregion of the Śląskie voivodship, i.e. the district of więsławski, Rybnik, Żory, the district of rybnicki, how this high-speed line will run, which will connect this region of Poland with the Central Communication Port. How advanced are these works? Where there will be a connecting point of this line, where the inhabitants of these districts [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think Silesia will be able to participate in this? Earlier, they had to reach the central point. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u177	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that the aviation industry is currently experiencing a pandemic crisis. There is also a statement in the explanatory memorandum, among others. about the construction of the Central Communication Port, which already generates huge costs. Only until June 2020, salaries for employees are almost PLN 12 million. However, regional airports are the most important for the development of the regions. Many of them will not have scheduled passenger flights until the end of December. Bydgoszcz Airport received 201 000 in the framework of government support of airports. zł. The support value is less than 7.6% the loss incurred by the airport as a result of the closure of airspace during the period from 16 March to 30 June of that year. The amount of support received for this period, while the commitment to maintain minimum operational readiness, is clearly insufficient. It can be said that the company was even punished (the bell) for the austerity measures undertaken. Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. So what strategy is the government going to adopt to save regional airports? And is the truth... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, Commissioner, you have already run out of time. ...what is said by Deputy Minister Marcin Horała that direct financial assistance is no longer foreseen for regional airports such as Bydgoszcz? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Such a beautiful woman to interrupt, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u179	What can I do? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are in a pandemic and this is a very dramatic time for airports and for air traffic in general. I am wondering what the 2030 strategy for sustainable transport will look like because of the pandemic time we are in. Isn't this money quilt that's designed for this kind of investment at the moment getting too short? And isn't it true that by betting on the Central Communication Port in Baranów, we will not lead to the construction of this Central Communication Port at the expense of regional airports? Is the investment on the central port delayed and how much is it already? Will it really be realized? Do all the simulations you're doing prove the need for such a hubby? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u181	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to invest in airport infrastructure, it is first necessary to prevent the falls of these ports. Ports need a real financial rescue today to survive economically and protect them from completely reducing their specialised personnel. Without these specialists no port will rise quickly after the pandemic and will not be able to handle new network connections for long. As a result, the granting of the airport in Bydgoszcz only 200 thousand. Government aid is a clear sign that the government is trying to use the pandemic to bring down some local airports, and I have a question: Why? And why and how does the government imagine the functioning of the future CPK without a professional airport in Bydgoszcz and other professional local airports? I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u183	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u184	I wanted to ask you about Ławica Airport, following Mr Szopiński's question. Sławica Airport. What is the planned government aid for the existing international airport in Ławice, which has a double difficult situation, not only due to the freeze of flights due to pandemics. This year's loss will amount to PLN 40 million, next year it is planned for PLN 30 million, while the second problem of Ławica airport is the need to pay compensation decided by the court for the benefit of the residents due to the establishment of an area of limited use around Ławica airport. For 8 years Ławica has already paid PLN 106 million in damages, this year it will pay another 20 million, next year - another 16 million, and even if Ławica airport resigns from all planned investments for the next 2 years, it will not be able to cover the costs of these compensations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. ...has only suffered losses...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u185	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u186	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! After 22 May, when the government announced a shield for airports that stood against the wall in connection with the ban on passenger flights, among others. Łódź airport applied for 640 thousand. zł. It's a small amount for an airport. The request was correctly submitted, of course all checks were carried out, and it finally turned out that after the application had been submitted these criteria were changed and three airports were not assisted: in Lublin, Olsztyn and Łódź. I believe that these airports have simply been perfidiously deceived, because the State banned flights while at the same time shut down three airports, only because these airports have made some changes concerning, for example, a reduction in employees' salaries, a reduction in fixed costs. I therefore ask: Why Prime Minister Morawiecki [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's punishing the airport? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u187	Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This special act will enable the construction of a central airport in Baranów. But I ask, Minister, what about the existing airports, such as the one in Lublin, which you deprived of assistance and support under shield 2.0, because the Ministry considered that the loss shown by the airport does not fall within the definition of loss. Minister, in response to the interview I wrote to you on 4 June, you assure me that the support will be addressed to all 14 airports. Why are you lying? Why didn't Lublin receive support? Minister, from this point on behalf of the people of Lublin, I ask for help and support for Lublin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u189	Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u190	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like Lublin, Olsztyn did not receive this support, so that I would like to join the vote of the Member for the support of all regional airports in Poland. And going back to the point: justification of the airport specialty project. At the foot of the proposed project, there is an urgent need to finance transport infrastructure in the country in the field of public use airports so that they can accept passenger traffic and cargo after the pandemic. The costs are already high and could still increase significantly over the next years, especially if the effects of the pandemic are taken into account, and hence the question: How can we be sure that the Central Communication Port will provide passenger traffic in line with the assumed volumes? If the price of aviation fuel increases, the number of tourists can be significantly reduced, even if the post-pandemic situation returns to normal. And second question: Is the construction of this airport in 2027 next to Grodzisk Mazowiecki, next to Baranów with a coordinated railway junction [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does he have a chance to be on time? Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club. Is this term taken from the ceiling? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u191	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, we have been informed that Incheon International Airport, which is South Korea's main airport, has become a strategic advisor to the Central Communication Port. The Minister said that in December CPK plans to sign a contract worth EUR 3.5 million for a period of 3 years, i.e. by 2023. This date is not accidental because this year the elections for the new term of office are to take place. Maybe you'll finally admit that the CPK will never arise, that it's just a very expensive teddy bear from Stanisław Barei's movie. It's a teddy bear to suit your expectations and your abilities. This movie straw bear was a symbol of the melting money, and so will the Central Communication Port. This 3.5 million euro, or more than 15 million PLN, could be spent on health care, would be enough for at least 30 ambulances. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u193	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The government has allocated 142 200 thousand. PLN for assistance to airports. 138 654 729 zł was used. There are 3 545 271 zlotys left. Three ports did not receive support: Szymany, Lublin, Łódź. There's money to help these ports, which is why we're calling on the PiS government not to hurt them. They deserve backup, too. I have a question. By 2012 more than PLN 6 billion was spent on regional ports. What is the total amount of funds invested in airport infrastructure by December 2020? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u195	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with the current question to the Minister. I'm from Szczecin, West Pomeranian. Minister, we feel a little bit like that fairy-tale king who lived behind seven mountains, seven forests, seven rivers, and had far away everywhere. We've got a long way to go, too. Explain to me how it is that during the period when the Minister and the Government say that there are problems in Lot and there are no passengers, you have eliminated - since this week - half of the connections between Szczecin and Warsaw? How is it possible that the Szczecin agglomeration will have one connection to Warsaw four days a week? How come there won't be any connection this weekend? The second question concerns strategic issues. It's about regional ports. Please inform me what are the plans for the shareholder of the Airports. Do you plan to have airports as a state-owned company in regional companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you planning on withdrawing them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u197	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you. I would like to thank Mr Grabarczyk, then Minister of Infrastructure, for the Law of 12 February 2009. I thank him because thanks to this bill as a marshal of Lublin Voivodeship I built an airport in Lublin. It's still functioning today. In times of crisis, regional airports cannot be left to themselves. I ask - please answer in writing - why the airport in Lublin did not receive the support it needs. Without this support, he won't be able to function. One last thing. I call on the Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to provide financial support for Lublin Airport in Świdnik. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u199	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, coalition club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This extension project... On the one hand, it will, of course, facilitate regional investment, including the construction of the CPK. We must bear in mind that, due to the pandemic, air traffic has decreased significantly, e.g. in Kraków-Balice is 74% smaller than last year, in Łódź is only 36% of what was in the previous year, while in the spring Szczecin-Goleniów airport suffered losses of about PLN 3.5 million. In the explanatory memorandum, you indicate that results similar to those of 2019 will not be possible until 2024. This depends, of course, on many factors. My question is: Are your previous analyses up to date? Since the construction of the CPK had already been very questionable, isn't it even more pointless now? Does the government know that the maintenance of meadows in Baranów currently costs PLN 20 million a year? I understand that this law is also intended to extend the payment of Mr Horale's salary, but in the current situation (the bell), when we have a drop in income and an increase in costs, should we not give up such meaningless investments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u201	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law itself is of course absolutely desirable, because Poles like to use regional airports, they like to use those airports that are close, which are friendlyly located. Minister, I therefore have a question: Are there any analyses that show how the construction of the port in Baranów will affect the situation of other regional ports? How does that affect... What consequences will the construction of a central port cause for airports such as Kraków-Balice or Katowice-Pyrzowice? What losses do the authorities of these airports have to prepare for? What will be the consequences of setting up a central airport for the inhabitants of these regions? Isn't that the main port just [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you wipe these little ports off the face of the earth? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u203	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that the investments carried out under this law may include projects related to environmental protection, mitigation of the negative environmental impact of airports, including investments contributing to noise monitoring or reduction. The problem of air noise nuisance is raised by residents around many airports. Lowering the comfort of life or falling the value of real estate is the cause of high compensation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Was there an analysis of the noise burden for the surrounding residents for the construction of the airport in Radom and a forecast of a decrease in the value of the property in the area of limited use? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u205	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u206	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing this bill is. And why is this bill good and why is it good? Because it's the Civic Platform Act. E.g. The airport in my hometown, Radom, is built on it. [[Applause]] Since we're at Radom, Minister, I've written to you several times about these coordination meetings. After last week we learned as radomians that suddenly for unknown reasons you lost the crossings on railway line 26 from Dęblin to Radom, which will make it impossible for the designed viaduct to operate those passengers who are to switch to transport wheels to the airport. Minister, what's going on with the trip? I'll remind you, as former Vice President of Radom, that last year, when I was in coordination meetings, this convention was supposed to be. Second question. What about the S7 route of Tarczyn - Lesznowola relations? The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways has declared this contract to the contractor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no contractor, there won't be a deadline. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u207	Mr Artur Łącki, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In June of this year, when Szczecin-Goleniów Airport stopped paying salaries to employees, because it had no money, the Marshal of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship quickly launched 2.5 million loans, immediately after it was done by the second shareholder of Szczecin, and because of his tardiness in the payment of money as the main shareholder of the State Treasury said that he needed the notification of the European Union, although we had long pointed out to them several times that during the pandemic period the European Union did not expect such events to be notified. In recent weeks, the airport's shareholders have decided to provide long-term support to this entity. 40 million from Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, 34 million from Szczecin and 108.5 million from Airports, i.e. from the State Treasury. My question now is: Will the Treasury do so? Because he hasn't done it lately? Let me remind you, this company could be going down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the Polish proverb, which says, who gives quickly, gives twice, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u209	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if the creators of this bizarre Kaczyński project remember the time of Paris when they said that Paris would stand, because there would be no oats for horses and there would be no way to export horse manure. Ladies and gentlemen, the planes used to take off from a 4 km long runway, then 3 km, now the plane is going to blow up somewhere like this, like, 300 and 400 meters, and I think in 5 and 7 years, there will be planes flying vertically, and all your ideas with airports will just be funny because you don't take into account the technical progress that's going on. The central airport will not be completed yet, if ever there will be a full revolution in the aviation industry. And it's worth remembering, not just thinking about what's going on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u211	Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have a question for the Minister, which is often asked me by the people of Baranów and the surroundings. How will the amendment of this law affect the construction of the Central Communication Port in Baranów? Because there is no doubt that this change is only made for this purpose. I also have a request to the government that you remember that there, in the municipalities of the Aries, Teresin and Wiskitki, there are people who still do not know what the future awaits them. When will the residents find out what will be the price of the land on which they live, where they run their farms? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u213	Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u214	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Tell me, what's the CPK for? Exactly. Why? Exactly. Nobody knows why. And you don't have to worry about someone asking, "Do you know what this CPK is doing?" He answers: the vital needs of the whole society. This is the CPK on the scale of our capabilities. Do you know what we're doing with this CPK? We open our eyes to the disbelievers. Look, we're talking. This is ours. It's done by us. Forever. And that's not our last word. No one has the right to attach themselves because this is a social CPK, based on six institutions that will not arise until 2025. And then what will you do? The destruction protocol. Remember: real money is earned on expensive meadow investments. Minister! We know exactly what this extension is for, but I learned recently that even the head of PR and marketing works there because we saw one of the interviews. I think we deserve to know how many ten or a hundred people work there, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for what money and what they're doing there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u215	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Marcin Horała, has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This extremely simple law extending the duration of the current law has become an incentive for you to discuss topics in 99% not involving this bill. Unfortunately, part, I admit, only some of you have shown far-reaching ignorance, but it is very good that there is an opportunity among some of you, because I respect the expertise of some of you very much, to spread this knowledge. A whole series of lines. I probably won't be able to answer them all. We'll answer the others in writing. Firstly, breaking down the issue of aid or the difficult situation of regional airports with the construction of CPK makes such sense as saying that e.g., I don't know, for Tesco it will not be profitable to invest in a hypermarket, because small estate shops, food stores are not very fast. Yeah, that's why these little stores don't run very well. This is why, especially in times of crisis in the aviation market, large, strong, aggregate traffic will also survive, and small ones will be scattered or will have very big problems. When we talk about helping regional airports. Ladies and gentlemen, especially on this side of the political scene, I already know what you mean by this constant repetition, talking about polexit. Because, as far as the Polish Government is concerned, its intention, and this is confirmed by the documents adopted, was to pay aid to all regional airports in Poland, but in the notification discussion the European Commission made it clear that part of this aid would be illegal public aid. Because we have many regional airports in Poland, which are permanently in deficit, which have been loss-making not only during the pandemic crisis, but have been loss-making since they exist - and at the peak of air traffic, and with average air traffic, and with small, always loss - this kind of support for these ports is illegal public aid. Hence we adopted the mechanism, once again, in line with the recommendation of the European Commission, i.e. We refund losses for the time of administrative closure of flights. So the operating result of this year, when it was the closure of flights, versus the operating result of last year. It turned out that three airports in Poland, when there were no flights on them, improved their financial situation - they suffered less loss than a year ago when these flights were. And we obviously can't pay that money to airports like this. A few more airports recorded a slightly worse result, but a bit. That's 200,000 from here. for Bydgoszcz, because the financial result of Bydgoszcz at the total closure of flights, the operating result, only deteriorated by 200,000. If we were to pay more, it would be the European Commission's decision that this is illegal public aid. That is clearly what the Commission has said. Ladies and gentlemen! There were so many thesis that the hands actually fall down, e.g. no consultation of the CPK investment programme. Although this year we would present a strategic localization study which is a project of the whole new transport system of Poland, for which it was necessary to design preliminary routes of railway lines and roads much longer than the entire current system of national roads, motorways and railway lines in Poland, because this had to be done multi-optionally. Here the answer to the question, for example, is what. They're taking care of people at the CPK. Well, for example. with this - designing a new communication system of Poland. 140,000. the comments made and dealt with on this programme, to put it mildly, contradicts the lack of consultation. I wonder who read them. And these consultations will, of course, be at the next stages of the investment - at the stage of environmental decision-making, mileage determination, etc. will be repeated locally. Therefore, at Mr Gadowski's question about the course I refer to the SSL, but of course in writing we will also go into details. Charges about the slow pace of CPK construction. I'll leave the airport in Berlin alone, but for example. Western Sydney airport is 17 years from the decision to the first flight. Show me in the area of the legal culture of the West, not to mention the European Union, the megalott, which was built in 10 years from the decision to the first flights. I'll answer... Europe is a dead man. This is another matter, but for now we are in it, in the European Union, whatever opinion you have on it. We are subject to all regulations, for example, I do not know, environmental inventory for investments must take into account and examine the growing season, all four seasons. It must therefore take a year, there is no other possibility in the current legal state. So if someone says that the pace is slow, show me a faster pace. Istanbul was built in 10 years from the decision to the first flights, which is at the rate that we want to achieve in this timetable, which at this moment is maintained and which, if successful, will be the European Union's record for such investments. And you criticize it too slowly. I don't know, so I guess you're all for polexit. The Member is, I know, but they say they are not. Ladies and gentlemen! Poznan Sławica is an important problem, we are aware of it, but this is a problem of the pathology of the justice system. It was in that jurisdiction that the courts approved horrendous damages for alleged future, possible, potential theoretical declines in the value of the property caused by (the bell) the vicinity of the airport. I personally feel that way because I don't think there's any comment from the courts that this is a scandal. Someone lives, for example. In a single-family house, he bought it 20 years ago, he's not going to sell it, and the court finds that because of the proximity of the airport he can't build a nursery there, or maybe he wants to build a nursery, that's where he's lost, for example, I don't know, 500,000, and live cash airport. He's got the money to pay him. I agree that this is pathology, but this is a vote in favour of reform of the justice system above all. As a minister, I do not have the opportunity to suspend the enforcement of final judgments, and I do not even want to have them, because it would be a clear violation of fundamental legal principles. If anyone asks why Incheon Airport should be a strategic advisor by 2023. - because the physical construction of the airport starts in 2023 and the role of the strategic advisor will end and the role of the strategic partner and the industry investor will begin. If cooperation works out well, Incheon Airport will probably be able to play the role, but of course we do not prejudice this at this stage. We will see how this cooperation will work - with the airport, which is the fourth best Skytrak Airport in the world in terms of passenger service. This is the know-how, the quality of service, this knowledge, which we want to transfer to Poland, so that CPK is also one of the best in terms of quality of airport passenger service. By shortening my speech significantly, because time is passing, I just wanted to say one more thing. It is about undermining the CPK because of the crisis in the aviation market. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis is real and profound. In the most pessimistic projections some indicate that maybe even 2027 this will be the year of reflection to the level of 2019. I wanted to make you aware that the decision to build a civilian airport in Okęc was years old. 30. 20th century And let's imagine that this is the '30s. The 20th century would be a deep, long-standing crisis in the then aviation market. Someone would say: by 1937 this air traffic will not bounce back, so why do we need Okęcie. Let the planes continue to take off from the meadow at the Mokotowski Field. How would we now judge such a decision in retrospect? Would we consider her right? We are building a new transport system of Poland, building infrastructure for decades, for decades. We cannot accuse these plans because we have a few years of crisis in the aviation market, Ba, little of that, they will allow us to make up for lost time. Here we bow to Minister Grabarczyk. I believe that your decisions were right when you were a minister to prepare for the construction of a central airport. That's when you had to build. If it wasn't for the COVID, which was unpredictable, the CPL or the CPK would have needed next year, in two. And he, built according to the timetable, would be delayed in 2027 not because there were delays with regard to the timetable, only because this decision was taken too late. COVID, this crisis, gave us paradoxically a reset, a few years of breathing. Those delays we're catching up on. I would like to make you aware that the Occasion capacity, e.g. in the environmental dimension, it was practically exhausted already in 2019. I would like to ask you how you would plan to expand this Okęcie. Or, for example, Destroy the Ursynów district in Warsaw? Or just give away part of the movement, the most valuable movement, the hub, the transfer, outside of Poland? Mr Dziambor, my colleague from Gdynia, just asked what the CPK is for. Mostly so that this added value, this cream in air traffic, what is most profitable, hub traffic, intercontinental, so that this cream from the Polish market does not drink the connecting airports in Munich, Frankfurt, Helsinki, Istanbul, so that this added value will remain in Poland, so that in Poland a new, best communicated or one of the best communicated points on the map of the world will appear, so that there will be a place to draw investment. Recognized international audit firm A. T. Kearney's benefits first from the investment programme and then the operation of the CPK transport system in the perspective of 2040 are estimated at over 300 new jobs and over 1 trillion added value to Polish GDP. That's what the game's about. And I am very surprised that some of the Polish parliamentarians in this game are part of the team playing against Poland. Because, of course, in the interest of German, Finnish, Turkish, all those countries that have hub airports in our area and benefit from this, it is not that some of these benefits will come to Poland. It's in our best interest. I urge you to act in this interest of ours. The question is, when are the residents going to find out what the price of land is going to be? When, in one form or another, they begin to sell these land and land will be valued by experts or experts. Of course, this price may change over time. We'll offer you additional solutions. I would like to remind you that in the case of Polish investments the procedure for obtaining real estate, whether it is purchase or expropriation is known. It takes place at a further stage in the development of the investment. In the case of CPK, it hasn't occurred yet, but we'd like to propose it. Even before the end of this year, I will present additional mechanisms, extra, more favourable to residents, which they will be able to benefit from on a voluntary basis. In the end, the real value of the property must be the main basis of what we are talking about. We cannot for the land really worth, for example, as an example, let's say, 50 PLN for 1 m And I'm done thanking the marshal for his understanding. My statement satisfies your curiosity and answers your questions. Not all of them. One last thing about what's going on in this CPK. People work there. Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that any investment, especially such a large investment, is not that we're going to come up with something today that we're going to build, we're going to put it under that shovel tomorrow, it's going to be open the day after tomorrow, and it's going to be open the day after tomorrow, and it's going to be anyone who's going to start working, preparing whatever it is they're going to do with this investment. We are talking about the investment programme, about the level of CAPEX, speaking business language, almost over PLN 100 billion of the investment programme. Show me an international corporation with a level of CAPEX that doesn't have a hundred and dozens of people working in the investment department, just like the CPK. I guarantee you that there will be several more employees there. This is a matter of preparing the SSL, as I said in considering the comments. This is a matter of resolving a number of tenders, this is an issue of environmental inventory. We are currently conducting environmental inventory in an area of approximately four times the area of the capital city of Warsaw. This is a strategic environmental impact assessment, which will be completed in January, which will empower us to raise EU funds for all investments from the CPK programme. This is a tender for a strategic advisor. But this isn't just a tender. These are multi-month business negotiations, competitive dialogue, technical dialogue. In the end, there will be a bid to choose a strategic advisor. Same with the masterplan contractor. The tender's in progress. I could exchange and exchange anyway. This year, according to the schedule, we have overcome a whole range of milestones for this project. The project is not delayed when it comes to answering this question. Of course, we're not even halfway there, we're still a lot ahead of us. I can't predict whether one of the tenders will appeal the length of time the court will consider its execution, but there are no delays on our side. We'll build the CPK. In 2023, putting in the first shovel, in 2027 the first flights - we stick to this schedule. As for regional airports, as far as we can help in accordance with European Union rules, we help. Unfortunately, there are permanently deficit airports. I can't help it, as at the top of the flight, at the air market summit, the airport is losing a huge amount of money. There are 15 years and during that time there was no year to make a profit. There are airports which have a cumulative loss of PLN 150, 170 million. There's really not much we can do about that. It's more of a question to shareholders and owners. Airport Szczecin, this is really the last thread, is an airport strategic from the point of view of the transport strategy of the Polish state, also from the point of view of the transport strategy of the CPK. I confirm the willingness and will of State Airports to invest in this airport to take part. We must do this by notifying it to the European Commission. The phrase was, "Who gives quickly, gives twice." The quick giver often violates the rules on illegal state aid, then causes the risk of returning this aid and bankrupting the company. Unfortunately, that's what happens sometimes. That's what we need to remember. Minister, what about the travels? Thank you very much again. The other questions will be answered in writing because I have abused the courtesy of your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You didn't answer my questions. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u217	Thank you very much, Minister, for speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 56 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws (prints No 719 and No 767). I ask Mr Tadeusz Chrzan to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a report on a government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. The draft is included in print No 719 and the committee's report is in print No 767. Let me remind you that this project entered the Sejm on 28 October this year. and was directed to first reading. On 20 November, the 21st meeting of the High Sejm held a first reading of this submission and was addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The project concerns the possibility of traffic on public roads of vehicles with an authorised single axle load of up to 11,5 t without the need for authorisation. However, it should be noted that the project allows for limits on the permissible axle pressure to be imposed by the road manager or by the local authority, and does not apply to roads with a ground surface on which the law only allows the movement of vehicles with a single axle pressure of up to 8 t. This solution is the implementation of the March 2019 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In that judgment The Court held that by requiring transport companies to have special permits to travel on certain public roads, the Republic of Poland failed to fulfil its obligations under the provisions of Article. 3 and 7 of the Council Directive of July 1996 establishing for certain road vehicles moving within the Community the maximum permissible dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum permissible loads in international traffic. Therefore, it is necessary to make statutory amendments in order to remove or modify illegal national legislation in the Union and, unfortunately, it cannot be implemented in any other way. The draft law will result in the full implementation of the judgment of the TSUE and in ensuring compliance of national legislation with the provisions of the above-mentioned law. a directive, which means ensuring the mobility of vehicles with a permissible pressure of a single driving axle up to 11.5 t on public roads in Poland without the need to obtain authorisation to pass a non-normative vehicle. The Infrastructure Committee at its meeting yesterday considered this project. In the course of the committee's work on the draft, legislative comments and one substantive amendment were tabled. Following a vote, the Commission unanimously adopted the draft together with the amendment and proposes that it be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u219	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Tomasz Ławniczak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law on amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws considered by the High House raised a discussion when working in the Infrastructure Commission after first reading, but at the same time did not cause much controversy as verified by the vote. This is the implementation of EU law, specifically the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. To date, local authorities, either by independent decisions of local government executives or by the regulations of the road management agencies, have issued decisions allowing traffic on individual local roads mainly in the form of internal regulations which either limited the tonnage of vehicles or pressure of their single axle on the road. At the same time, exemptions were often created for means of transport for companies which were mentioned on information marks placed under signs restricting the movement of vehicles of a certain tonnage. This caused numerous interventions of transport companies, because vehicles of some companies, usually located near a particular section of the road, were allowed to operate on such a local road, and often vehicles of other companies, located a little further away, e.g. In another municipality or in another district, this movement was not allowed, so they had to look for other circular routes to their companies. I myself have experienced a number of civic interventions in this area, both in self-government work and in the exercise of a parliamentary mandate. On the basis of these experiences, I can say one thing: so far there have been no national rules that would regulate this area of socio-economic reality. Following the judgment of the TSUE of 19 March 2019, we have such a legal reality that all internal regulations on tonnage limitation or axle pressure are formally invalid, which few people know and what they are not really enforcing. Today, the above-mentioned provisions need to be regulated. cases on a national scale, allowing for restrictions, as referred to in Article. 1 amendment 2nd Act of Procededed Law. Numerous changes are made primarily in Article. 41 and the following Article shall be inserted: 41a, Art. 41b, Art. 41c and Art. 41d to the Public Road Act. If we lean on these changes, we will come to the conclusion that they regulate issues on a national scale, giving local governments, as road managers, the possibility of numerous exemptions and prohibitions which will be introduced either by means of regulations or, above all, by resolutions of a given municipality council or district. The most important of the proposed solutions are the provisions in Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 5 Public Roads Act, which describes the conditions for the admission on local public roads of vehicles with high loads of a single axle on the road. The Law and Justice Club will support the amendments proposed by the Council of Ministers included in the procedated law implementing EU law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u221	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition regarding the draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws contained in print No 719. The need for changes in this respect arises from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of March 2019 in which the requirement for transport undertakings to hold special authorisations for the use of certain public roads was challenged. Among other things, it was decided that by requiring transport companies to have special permits to travel on certain public roads, the Republic of Poland violated Community rules by establishing for certain road vehicles moving within the Community the maximum permissible dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum permissible burdens in international traffic. These are vehicles with a single driving axis of up to 11.5 t. The Court of Justice found the Polish system of authorising the carriage of such vehicles to be contrary to the provisions of the Council Directive. It is worth reminding that the national roads are 19 403 km, and local government roads are 405 160 km. At present, the free transport of vehicles with a 11.5 t pressure on the axle is possible in principle only on national roads and covers a total of 3% All roads. After the shift, it'll be 70%. The change will therefore largely affect local roads. We have analysed the provisions contained in the text of the Act. The introduction or establishment of a ban on the movement of vehicles with a 11,5 t axle shall be permitted on public roads or sections thereof whose technical characteristics or technical condition of the road surface structure are not adapted to the movement of vehicles with a single axle pressure of more than 10 t or more than 8 t and which at the same time meet inter alia. the following conditions: the road or section of the road passes through an area where there is a form of nature protection, exit from a nursery or a children's club, a kindergarten, a school or a care-care centre, in a historic area, where the road or part of the road passes through an intensive residential area, or the road does not have a sidewalk, a collisionless pedestrian crossing or a pedestrian crossing equipped with light signalling. It's a step in the right direction. We also appreciate that the Self-Government Road Fund Act introduces a criterion for raising technical standards for district and communal roads, in particular adapting them to the traffic of vehicles with a single driving axis of 11.5 t, and maintaining the uniformity of district roads and communal roads with regard to compliance with these standards. This should result in a significant increase in the pool of funds that should reach local authorities for the modernisation of existing infrastructure. For it is the municipalities and districts with the introduction of new regulations that will have the biggest problem, and it is they who will bear the greatest cost. We call, by way of support to the voice of local authorities, for the decision to grant the funding to be announced earlier and the funds from the Self-Government Road Fund to be shared according to clear, clear, fair and objective criteria, because this has so far been different. We believe that insufficient analysis has been made of the effects of the proposed solutions. Their impact on rail and inland waterway transport has not been analysed. We do not even know the approximate amount that will have to be spent on making changes. There has been no analysis of how these changes will affect the issue of ecology, air cleanliness, increased noise. The 60-day time to complete them in an era of pandemics and staff shortages may not be enough for local governments. It should be stressed, as has already been said, that the adoption of a law in this form will fundamentally change the perception of public roads in Poland. The implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union requires a fundamental discussion in Poland on the standards of reconstruction of roads and how they are financed and financed by government funds, [[Applause]] as well as creating the conditions for the development of alternative forms of communication - primarily railway. High Izbo! Members of the Civic Coalition are always responsible for the proposed laws. This project received a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. As I have already mentioned, it is primarily intended to bring Polish legislation into line with EU rules and for these reasons - despite the many doubts I have expressed - we will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u223	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Maciej Kopc, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u224	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws, contained in print No 719, is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 March 2019, which ensures compliance of national legislation with Union law. The project concerns the ability to operate vehicles with a single axle pressure of up to 11,5 t without the need to obtain additional permits, but which can be limited by the road manager or local authorities. The only exception will be the ground roads. On these roads it will be possible to operate vehicles with a single axle pressure of up to 8 t, as these roads do not meet the relevant load requirements. This criterion applies to 29% of all public roads. Not all public roads meet technical standards that allow heavy vehicles to move on them, are threatened with rapid destruction and frequent renovations, so traffic bans with a pressure of up to 11.5 t can be introduced by the road manager or by a decision taken by the municipality or city council. Roads with a surface other than bituminous, concrete, stone or clinker shall be made by the standards recorded in the design analysed here with a single axle pressure of 8 t. Self-governments will be able to introduce restrictions on the movement of heavy vehicles up to 11,5 t when two legally defined conditions are met: when the technical condition of the road prevents heavy vehicles from moving on it and when the road runs near areas or objects to which heavy vehicles may have a particularly negative impact, e.g. runs or borders the protected area or is situated in the vicinity of residential buildings, kindergartens, schools, spas or mining areas. Traffic bans shall not be allowed on public roads or sections thereof, on the trans-European road network, on national roads or sections thereof, with the exception of national roads managed by city presidents on the rights of the county, on public roads or sections thereof which have been built or rebuilt with funds from the budget of the European Union. The prohibition shall not be applicable for 5 years from the date of entry into service of the road or section thereof. As part of raising technical standards for district and municipal roads, an additional criterion was introduced in the application for funding from the Self-Government Road Fund: adjusting the road to the traffic of vehicles with permissible axle pressure to 11,5 t. This means the possibility for local authorities to receive additional financial support, which will adapt local roads to the traffic of heavy vehicles. Importantly, for transport operators, provision is made for provisions which will result in the recovery of fees paid by the TSUE prior to the judgment and the remission of authorisation proceedings or penalties for the absence of such fees. Carriers who have paid the fee and paid the administrative penalty for the lack of authorisation before the judgment is delivered by the TSUE for exceeding the single-drive pressure axis to 11,5 t will have a month to submit an appropriate application, counting from the date of entry into force of the amended law, and thus a chance to recover the money. There will be no need to obtain authorisations for the passage of a single axle up to 11,5 t, which means simplifying administrative procedures and reducing the number of documents issued. As a result, it will be easier and cheaper to carry out transport activities. It will be possible to travel heavy vehicles without authorisation, e.g. to logistics and transhipment terminals, which can accelerate the development of an economic activity requiring such transport. The Left Club will vote in favour of the Government's draft Print Act No 719. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u225	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski from the parliamentary club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland regarding the government draft law amending the Law on public roads and some other laws, prints no. 719 and 767. We are adapting our rules to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and it is good because there are many benefits. First of all, people who run transport companies, people who operate in this industry will not have to obtain further permits. What they've paid under penalties, they're gonna be able to get it back right now, and that's good. In order to speed up the development of economic activity, these issues need to be unlocked, because transport by these routes must be carried out, while additional obligations were imposed to make it possible to lean on it at the office and obtain a permit. As I heard at yesterday's committee meeting and earlier in the debate, some parliamentarians are wondering whether the roads will be run over and regretted. Roads will not be run over because you leave road managers the ability to reduce the pressure of one axle. This is necessary because it is the managers who know the state of the roads best, who know when they were built, on what principles. This needs to continue. Of course, with regard to the entire TNT network, national roads, express roads, motorways, but also roads that were built with EU funds, for a period of 5 years no bans can be placed on these roads, and well. On the other hand, if necessary, I think that the local government can handle this very well. As far as our club's position is concerned, we will, of course, vote in favour of adapting this right to EU legislation. It's got the best way to function. We see a lot of needs and report them. Local governments want to rebuild roads, there is a need to strengthen roads in rural areas, because these roads built several years ago were adapted to completely different traffic of vehicles that took place there. Today we see how, thanks to EU measures, the countryside has changed, rural areas have changed, more and more equipment is being used in the field and must cross these roads. The roads must be wider, they must have better visibility, but also carrying capacity. Therefore, all the funds that the government is planning to spend in the near future should be directed towards the roads of course under the various programmes that are available, both EU and national. The roads need to be changed, and our rights need to be adapted to the judgment, to the ruling of the TSUE. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u227	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki from the Wheel of the Polish Confederation. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The judgment of the TSUE and its implementation into Polish law show once again how often EU rules, EU regulations or judgments of EU courts, tribunals are incompatible with the needs, with the challenges we have today in Poland. Today, in Poland, the main problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that often small, rural roads which lead to some factories are run over in a horrendous way by trucks, by transport not adapted to the circumstances. There are particularly scandalous practices of this kind also in the case of the transport of waste to Poland. The subject that I have been dealing with since my previous term, the landfill, or actually the mine in Rębszów, which was turned into a landfill of waste from Germany, is related not only to the fact that waste is being shipped there, for which the local community rightly has very serious concerns, but also to the fact that in a small, not too rich rural, rural and urban commune several dozens of trucks per day are just passing through the roads. And the company that deals with this brings ridiculously small fees to the municipal budget, or its budget, because some of these roads are not communal, but district ones. This is a real problem, ladies and gentlemen, which the state and local authorities have to deal with today. This EU regulation is simply incompatible with this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u229	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Continuing on this subject, let us pretend that the case is fundamental, because I have the impression that both the European Court, and in fact the Polish authorities and some of the colleagues who speak, believe that the roads have the carrying capacity that the Court will establish or establish the municipal authority, the local authority or something. However, in a normal world where unfortunately we do not live, the road is built by a private entrepreneur, he owns it, and it is in his interest that this road should be as bearable as possible so that it can be driven by heavy trucks, and it is he who determines what cars can drive, not politicians or local government activists. We have something here that is typical nowadays: the conflict of interest of the Polish state, which on the one hand owns the roads, and on the other hand is the owner of the state and as a state imposes a certain restriction on the roads. At this point, this country is starting to issue regulations that are totally politically dependent, not conditioned by the fact that we want the best road system possible. In the interest of the private owner of the road, it is in the interest of as many cars as possible to drive it, in the interest of the state owner, who does not take a toll for it, it is in this way: the fewer cars will pass, the better, because the road destroys less. This is a fundamental conflict of interest between the normal private owner and the State owner, in which the State is, as I repeat, in two different roles: the role of the owner, who should profit from it and not profit directly from it, and the role of the road manager. Of course, very soon - this is a matter of a few, several years - there will be GPS systems that will report on which way the car is going, and the owner of the road will be able to pay the right fee and thus will be able to solve this problem. Now what we're doing is saving the situation with your left hand through your right ear. We believe that if the Court says something, then Polish roads will suddenly become more mobile or if the government issues a regulation, heavier cars will be able to drive on these roads. However, I repeat: the roads have the carrying capacity they have - technical and it should be done and set up techniques, not politicians. Whether they are Polish politicians or worse - from abroad, who know Polish conditions even worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u231	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u232	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to the research, one TIR travels as many as 126,000. passenger cars. And this is supposed to be incredible data, but for example. The 2012 NIK report states that one TIR damages the way 2.5 million passenger cars do. Currently only 54% the roads are adapted to travel vehicles with 11.5 t on the axle, and you let the TIRs on them because you can't protect us from lobbying carriers. Allowing heavy vehicles is dangerous and unreasonable on all roads. This is the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure of 2019, that's what you said. Why aren't you defending our sovereignty and national interests in this regard, why are you vetoing the EU budget instead of defending us from the flood of TIRs? After all, our eastern neighbours specialize in shipping, it's not our national business. In the impact assessment there are no calculations of how much the ruined roads will be paid by local governments, how much we taxpayers will pay from the state budget. In the meantime, Minister, in July we began to change the charging system to a virtual, ultimately virtual, based on geolocation. This toll collection system will apply to each national road, each S road and each motorway. The municipal and district roads will remain free of charge and thanks to this act the TIRs will immediately reach them. Not every government will defend itself with a catalogue of exemptions, because not every situation is foreseen in this law. You said the P.O.'s been in the wrong place for years, and for the last five years, just like them, you haven't done anything to get the trucks on the tracks. Now you've got a problem that you're throwing at local governments and locals who are going to drive hundreds of TIRs under the windows. You don't know how to keep an eye on the business of Poles, even though you talk about it so much. Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni will not support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u233	Thank you very much. We're starting to ask questions. I'm setting 1 minute for questioning. The first Member is Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to claim the city on the rights of the county, the presidential cities, in which the local government itself must secure, rebuild several dozen kilometers of roads, change their surface and carry capacity. That's the way it is. in Konin. This self-government is left to itself and must generate huge money, and now in a pandemic era, in a time of danger that there will be no money from the European Union, this challenge faced by self-governments can be all the more dramatic. For many years, we've been making sure they don't cross the city to drive the freeway. We are afraid that they will come back from the highway, especially since - as in the case of the Greater Poland motorway - the price of the motorway is huge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Who's the owner?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u235	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Ruth from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u236	Fighting Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed bill on increasing the permissible pressure on the axle to 11,5 t represents an important and necessary decision, bringing us closer to European standards. However, a problem is unsolved regarding the combination of semi-trailers forming a combination of vehicles, commonly referred to as a centipede in the transport industry. This is an important problem in the case of car transport of containers, especially sea-going ones, and close to me as a Member of the Pomeranian Land. It should be remembered that such multi-axis sets are very popular, for example. in the Netherlands or Belgium. In their case, the individual axle pressure is significantly reduced and thus the negative impact of the axle's unit load on the surface is reduced. Question: "When will the relevant rules be implemented in this regard, which are beneficial for the transport industry?" Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u237	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Szewiński from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another piece of legislation that will impose financial obligations on local governments. Self-governments will not always be able to introduce restrictions, as these sections will not always meet the statutory conditions to limit the movement of heavy vehicles. Therefore, local authorities will be obliged to adapt these sections to the traffic of heavy vehicles. Question: "Does the designer have an analysis of the costs that local authorities will have to bear in relation to road adaptation and the costs associated with additional road marking?" And another question: How will the degradation of the Polish road network be affected by the implementation of this novel allowing heavy vehicles with permissible driving force of 11.5 t without the need for appropriate permits? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u239	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Aleksander Mishalski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. There's no envoy. If he's not here, I invite Mr. Krzysztof Grabczuk from the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Is it? There's no MP... He's coming, he's coming, Mr. Marshal. Is it? There it is. I didn't just see you. Sorry about that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are new challenges for the municipalities and for the counties. Individual councils of municipalities and powiats will have to meet these tasks and will have to meet them, among others. because they will have to secure more money in their budgets. The biggest problem will be those of all local roads, whose state - let's not hide - if equipment with high axle pressure and especially if they are of low standard, will deteriorate very strongly. Therefore, it is extremely important that, at a time when the funds in the municipalities in each county are very few, the government strongly supported the local government's programme so that more financial resources would affect individual local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u241	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchuni from the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u242	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the bill is important, and this discussion is also important, and I want to ask the Minister about something a little different. The Prime Minister of the Government, Mateusz Morawiecki, drives around Europe and gathers a group that wants to overturn the European budget. We all know that this European budget These are absolutely billions of dollars for infrastructure investments, for roads, for railways. And these are the investments that are meant to serve us, the inhabitants. I wanted to ask what they will be financed if you manage to bring this dangerous project to an end. 'Cause then it turns out that 90% rail funds that a significant proportion of road resources will simply evaporate. So what will the roads be built of if there are no European funds? I would very much like the Minister to answer that question, preferably in writing. And the question is, did the Ministry give the Prime Minister a little bit of an insight into what the problem is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what is the government of greatness, what will Poland lose, what Poles will lose if this harmful project of de facto exiting Poland from the European Community Prime Minister Morawiecki and his Hungarian colleague bring to an end? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u243	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? But we have Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition... There it is. ...who we ask to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The roads are meant to serve the users. The point is not to go to a lousy effort, which we take as a community, building, repairing and rebuilding roads. We should also put in place a system to control the weight of vehicles on the road. And perhaps a good solution to this problem will reduce the damage. One overloaded TIR destroys the surface just like 163,000. passenger cars. It's information that's already gone public. What does mass control look like at the moment? I'm asking the Minister for an answer. And I have one more question: Will you prepare a local government support programme (the bell) to carry out more inspections on local roads as well? Perhaps these opportunities would also need to be introduced into the programme supporting the expansion of local roads. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u245	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the debate on the Public Road Act, I would like to appeal to the Minister to perhaps, on the occasion of the occasion, amend the Act on driving. This law imposes an obligation on driving instructors and instructors to participate annually in vocational training workshops and by 7 January each year they must submit certificates for this purpose. The Act requires the elderly to remove instructors and lecturers from the records. Due to the current situation, the COVID sharpening and the huge number of drivers of vehicles obliged by law to hold workshops, this is unfortunately almost impossible. With the current legal situation, this will result in [[♪ The bell ♪]] mass deletion of driving school instructors and instructors from records in January 2021. Dear Minister, Let's fight unemployment together. I appeal to you to make a decision on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u247	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Papke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u248	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law, which is a heavy burden and a challenge for the budgets of municipalities and powiats, local governments. When the traffic of heavy vehicles with a single axle is increased to 11.5 t on a public road, this will result in road degradation and more frequent renovations. So this is where the questions are born. Who will bear the financial responsibility for the inspection and modernisation of authorised roads for heavy vehicles? Let me remind you that we're talking about about about 300,000. km of public roads. What government programmes to support the modernisation of public roads, on which vehicles with such pressure are permitted, can local governments count on? What are the additional funds for? What budget is generally foreseen for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u249	Thank you very much, sir. These questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for the discussion on this draft law and for the discussion that is taking place here in the plenary room, but also the one that took place yesterday at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, although I do not hide the fact that this discussion today and some of the speeches surprised me. I'll tell you why in a minute. On the other hand, those who referred to the substance of the law itself, to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, actually referred to the substance and thank you very much for that. Ladies and gentlemen! If it wasn't for this bill, then with the free American we're dealing with right now, we'd still be dealing with it. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union has been in force since its adoption, i.e. since 21 March last year, i.e. de facto for the last several months there are no restrictions for vehicles with 11,5 t per axle. There are no restrictions or exemptions. However, thanks to this law and thanks to the enormous work of the entire team of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is here with me and whom I very warmly thank for the monthly work in this area, consultations with both the European Commission and other resorts, with carriers and local authorities, managed to create legal solutions that protect local authorities from free Americans and protect them from driving on roads that are not suitable for this. Such exemptions are also included in this Act. I answer the question of what the government is currently doing in this area to support local governments in modernising their roads. The best example of this is the Self-Government Road Fund, which has already allocated 39 billion PLN for the years 2019 to 2028. And it is the town of Konin - I am very pleased that the Member mentioned this - that is the best example of the beneficiary of the Self-Government Road Fund. In the year, I no longer know, 2020 or 2019, the city of Konin for the implementation of one of its applications received the maximum amount, which is foreseen in the Fund for Roads of Local Government, i.e. PLN 30 million. But that's still not enough. In your day, that's the amount they could have dreamed of. It was a dream, and now it's a reality. There was no such law in our time. Thus, there are investment tools created during the rule of law and justice, which support local government units. Anyone who says that this sentence - and here I am surprised by the members of the Confederation who consider themselves to be freedomists and those who support Polish business - anyone who says that this sentence harms Poland, that it is a threat that is excessive, I say directly, works to the detriment of the Republic of Poland. The sentence is the result of a complaint made by Polish entrepreneurs, Polish transporters, and it serves them. From this place I want to thank the whole transport industry, which has been operating for many, many years in Poland, is developing, gaining Western markets. The strength of Poland is really Polish transport, Polish transport companies that work in our country, which work in the west of Europe, which make big profits, and I hope that other EU regulations - I mean the mobility package - will not prevent this, they will not harm it. So anyone who says that the judgment or law is incompatible with the Polish interest is completely wrong. She's in line with the Polish business. We introduce fuses, we introduce exceptions that local government units will be able to apply on their roads. That is why I believe that this formula of the law, these rules are the best possible compromises. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you again for the substantive work, thank you for all the proposals, the votes, for the discussion that took place on this subject. I think the result of the vote in committee, but also the one that is likely to fall today, will confirm that we have prepared an ideal bill. Thank you very much. What about the weight? Oh, I've got 25 seconds. In the law, too - I answer Mr Grabarczyk's question - at the request of local authorities we added municipal and municipal guards as those who will be able to control such carriage as regards pressures and verification of pressures on a single axle of heavy vehicles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Money.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u251	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 57 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities (prints Nos 768 and 775). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir. Microphone. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u252	Please? Again, because you couldn't hear. The question is why. Oh, now, wait a minute. Someone's asleep. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You kept your voice down, now you're talking louder. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities, Seym printing Nos 768 and 775. This law was addressed to the first reading by the Marshal of the Sejm to the above-mentioned. the committee. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined the bill on 26 November this year. The legislative and order amendments adopted by the committee were tabled during the first reading. An amendment was also tabled amending the date of entry into force of the Law of 1 January 2021 at 31 December 2020, which was adopted by the committee on the ground that the grant resulting from the existing provisions is ending with that date. In view of these facts and the adoption of the Act by the Commission on behalf of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the draft Act annexed to the committee's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u253	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Ursula Rusecka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the government draft law amending the Grant Act for certain printing entities No 768. The main objective of the government project is to create a legal basis to extend the possibility of granting grants from the state budget to the following entities by 31 December 2027: Salt Mine Bochnia Sp. z o.o., the Salt Mine Wieliczka SA, the Coal Mining Museum in Zabrze and the Mine of Machów SA in liquidation. The need for adoption of the proposed law is dictated by the expiry of the period of transfer of the grants to the entities indicated in the Act. It is worth noting that, without the support of the state budget, these entities do not have the opportunity to carry out the necessary tasks, inter alia. with the protection of the historic parts of the mine and the liquidation of the part which is not antique. It's our duty to preserve priceless monuments. The bill is an expression of the responsibility of the Government of the United Right for the cultural achievements of many generations. The Wieliczka Salt Mine or the Bochnia Salt Mine are unique objects of cultural heritage worldwide, bringing fame to the Republic of Poland around the world. The Wieliczka Salt Mine, located in my home town, was already included on the UNESCO World Cultural and Natural Heritage List in 1978. Ensuring the continued functioning of its activities, especially now, during the COVID-19 epidemic, and thus the limited revenues of the company for the pursuit of tourism activities, becomes a priority. In addition to these salt mines, the coal mining museum in Zabrze, where the funds will be used for the maintenance and rescue of historic parts of the mining plant, and the Machów Sulphur Mine, where the funds will be allocated, among others. for the necessary drainage work. The process of securing mines takes many generations, and its continuity is crucial for ensuring adequate safety and survival of unique places on the map of Poland. In order for these entities to continue to receive support from the State budget, it is necessary to adopt this law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, with a view to securing the objects of the national heritage of Poland indicated in the draft law, but also the safety of their employees, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I recommend a positive opinion of the above government draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u255	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u256	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club regarding the draft law discussed today. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister that the Government of Law and Justice, however, maintains the functioning of the 2013 Act, when the Civic Platform tried to help these wonderful institutions that are going through today, which belong to a group of wonderful, well-known places in the world. And that is why I also wanted to present a little bit of history, as what we are talking about today are monuments of history, as you mentioned, already on the UNESCO World Heritage List. I'll start with that Bochnia where I had the pleasure of being born. The Bochnia Salt Mine is already a closed mine, but it must be made clear that its operation began in 1251, and ended in 1990. It must be said that like the mine in Wieliczka, it was a royal company, bringing huge profits to the Crown. So we have something to admire, we have something to watch today. Here, however, it must be clearly indicated that the mine in Bochnia reached a slightly larger depth, because 462 m, compared to Wieliczka, in which it was possible to descend and fedridate to a depth of 300 meters. Of course, all these activities related to the support of such magnificent monuments, gems of our history and mining technology, which we are talking about, must be supported, all the more so, as we are talking today about the mine in Wieliczka, is... Here we heard clearly that this mine today has more than 300 km of pavements and more than 3,000. objects that connect these sidewalks. It is worth noting that both Bochnia and the mine Wieliczka is the only facilities in the world that are open continuously from the Middle Ages to the present time, allowing us to trace the development of hard salt and brine extraction in individual historical epochs. And now let's either go six centuries further, or closer, when the Guido Mine was founded in 1855. Today she belongs to the Coal Mining Museum in Zabrze. It was a private entity. She received the name of the mine by the name of her founder. It functioned until 1962, and it is worth remembering. Its extraction reached its peak, so to speak, in the amount of 300,000. t coal these days, 30 years after it was opened. Today we took a powerful step in extracting technology. Today, individual mines extract about 3 million tons and more, so here we have some kind of gap, but as I said, technological development allowed us to go deeper. Underground. As I said, initially it was a private mine, and then this mine was sold to the state then mine Queen Louisa. Well, what does it turn out to be? In 1988, this mine remains the Upper Silesian Museum in Zabrze. An underground open-air museum was created here. It was only in 2007 that both the local government, Zabrza, and the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, who stopped the liquidation to connect the Guido Mine with the Coal Mining Museum in Zabrz in 2013. Undoubtedly Guido is a relentless, unique place on the map of Silesia. I hope that in a moment he will join those places that are on the UNESCO list. These, you can say, are the three gems of our technological and mining culture on the lists of world monuments. But in this bill we have another company, maybe a little different profiled today. We are talking about the Company for Restructuring of Mine, which deals with the possible maintenance of these pearls, in a large part of this hard coal, but which today is to take over, so to speak, the Central Pump Room Bolko and the funds for this purpose (The Bell) is secured in this budget. Unfortunately, in 2017 Law and Justice added to the Mine of Machów in liquidation, in Tarnobrzeg, which was virtually all liquidated, became the property of one of the local authorities. And today, in this budget, we are once again securing resources for a purpose. The government failed at that time, in the course of these few years, to find solutions for flood areas when it comes to the water that may possibly occur after these excavations. And here, Minister, I wanted to cheer you up so that after 2027, because this bill would apply, we wouldn't have to look for extra money. Let us refer the matter to the Polish Waters and to the Minister of the Environment, so that this melioration problem can be solved. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club continues to support the bill it passed in 2013. We will also vote in favour of this law. This gives the Minister the chance, however, to solve within 7 years the problem of this sulphur mine, which is in liquidation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u257	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Maciej Necessary, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of the Act is to extend the necessary financing of the salt mine in Bochnia and Wieliczka, the Museum of Coal Mining in Zabrze and the Machów sulphur mine in liquidation, as well as SRK in Bytom. In any case, we are talking about mines that have already finished mining, but require mining security work. This is particularly important in the case of the salt mine in Wieliczka and Bochnia, as well as the Guido Mine and the Queen Luiza Spit in Zabrze. We're talking about mines that build museums of old industry. We are talking not only about the decommissioning of inoperative mines, but also about securing their new function. The purpose of the Act is therefore uncontroversial, and the extension of this financing is necessary. It is a pity that once again everything is happening at the last moment, but of course the Left will support this project and the extension of this funding. It is clear to us that the required work cannot be financed from revenues from museum activities even under normal conditions. This is all the more impossible when we have COVID and the museum activities and accompanying its popularization or hotel activities cannot be carried out. It is all the more important to proceed effectively over this law, to quickly adopt it and to ensure the continuity of funding for these institutions during a particularly difficult period. I do not hide that as Silesian I am particularly close to the fate of the Zabrzane museum, a museum of absolutely exceptional, leading a very valuable educational and popularization activity, which allows visitors to experience first and foremost what a real hard coal mine looks like. This is a unique experience. If any of your fellow Members have not yet been to the Guido Mine, I would like to invite you to visit. This is really something amazing, especially at a time when actually an important part of Upper Silesia's history seems to be going to the end. That is why it is all the more important to cultivate traditions and knowledge about mining history of Upper Silesia, mining ethos of work, culture and everything involved. Another important element of the bill is the issue of stopping the grant of the Central Pompeii Bolko in Bytom and transferring tasks consisting in securing neighbouring mines against the water threat operating in Bytomia. This also fits the right trend in simplifying the mine drainage system and, if well done, it will certainly entail a reduction in costs. The law even refers to possible income. From this point of view, I would also raise a broader issue, i.e. - that's a bit of a question to the ministry - how much water we can recover and sell back to the network, and if there are plans. Technically, it is possible that water, which is pumped out of mines in huge quantities, is treated and used normally in households. This could mean that this extremely costly restructuring or mine decommissioning could involve real profits and therefore costs for the budget would probably be much lower. Of course, this does not apply only to this law. I'm just raising a broader issue. Since we are on broader issues, I will take advantage of the fact that I have one and a half minutes left to call for a debate on the restructuring of mining in the Sejm. I am counting on the Prime Minister's information and the real debate. As we know, there are key things going on here. The agreement concluded by the government and mining trade unions raises many doubts. It is not only about the ability to implement it - not only because of what we know, or the necessary consent of the European Union - but also about what is in it or what is not in it. It's already happening. The miners of Bielszowice learned that their mine would be closed in the coming years. They don't really know why their windows are supposed to be destroyed even though they have access to better quality coal. This is just one example of such confusion. We don't know what's gonna happen to them. It means that once again people find out that their workplace will be liquidated, and there's no plan. That's where people who are so old work, they're mostly not gonna get early retirement. There are thousands of people there who have not been given clear prospects, who have not been told what will happen next. I would like to mention issues relating to the restructuring and use of mines. There's a proxy in this contract. I mean, it's clear that if someone doesn't know what to do, they're calling a proxy. It's a classic about what you can do when you don't have a plan. It's worth talking about, too. This water, for example, shows that there is a great deal of waste due to the lack of a plan for use. [[♪ The bell ♪]] those huge resources that stay out of the mines. This is my appeal for this necessary bill that the Left will support. I would like us to have such a general debate on the restructuring of mining here in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u259	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. I'm not gonna read anymore because I don't know how to read, I'm gonna be honest. Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 or not? I don't mean to offend you. So today you're from the Polish Coalition. Come on in. It's up-to-date.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u260	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Read as much as possible: Coalition Poland - PSL. Nothing has changed in the case of Mr Krajewski. I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the grant law for certain entities, print Nos 768 and 775. As already stated here, the possibility of supporting subsidies from the Bochnia Salt Mine, the Wieliczka Salt Mine, the Coal Mining Museum in Zabrze and the Mine of the Mach Sulfur Machów must be extended until 2027. This amendment will certainly help to secure, save historic parts of the Bochnia and Wieliczka Salt Mine, as well as the Coal Mining Museum, as well as the sulphur mine. No matter who's in charge, no matter who's in the opposition, you have to pay these subsidies, support these investments, secure them. In addition, today all museums face problems related to the COVID sharpening, so that these subsidies are even more urgent to pay today. You could always say that you can do more, better, but we should all look for this money and this support pay out, because it certainly is very important for all of us. I will remind you that Wieliczka is in 14th place in the world in order of doing business, because from 1044 to today she still works. So that the Prime Minister, who isn't here today, doesn't forget once and tell him that he's laying the foundation stone under that bet, because that happens sometimes. So, of course, we will support this transfer, the extension of the deadline, the transfer of grants, which is important, necessary and intentional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u261	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki - here I have no doubt - from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about grants for museums, which are also mines. It must be said that when it comes to these subsidies, there are some fractional resources from the state budget. But it is worth recalling that more grants than in general for the whole mining industry and e.g. for PKP Intercity, because PLN 4.8 billion, in recent years directly from the state budget, the government has allocated this to government propaganda on public television in this House. This is the measure, this is the financial space of this event we're talking about. More than on the PKP and more than on mining, the government spends on propaganda on public television, on cheap propaganda, on small propaganda, on propaganda, on propaganda, which in no way forms conservative attitudes in society, which we had on the streets not so long ago. Ladies and gentlemen! However, what is still important in the context of museums and mining is that you are also a government for which the historic operation of converting Polish mining into one large museum is carried out. Yes, you will be remembered as the government that finally put an end to Polish mining traditions, especially in Silesia. I realize that this is 30 years of implementation of the same policy by all governments in turn, a policy of one that says that when there are fat years... When the years were greasy, companies, consorts, directors, bureaucracy was multiplied in mining, and most of the trade unions present in mining, and when the lean years came, it was only the elimination of mines. And this is also the legacy of the PiS government, which, unfortunately, together with the largest mining unions, decided this year to liquidate Polish mining and turn Polish mining into one big museum. And this surrender, too - this is a surrender under pressure from the European Union - will be remembered for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. You're welcome, sir. But you're famous, you don't need to be introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u264	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I was gonna say it a little bit here, but it's got to be said. We are in the next episode of the series about how Law and Justice will not liquidate mines, will not liquidate Polish mining, just as it will not liquidate Polish shipyards for example. I'm afraid... My previous speaker, honourable Member Robert Winnicki, has already mentioned this. On the other hand, I must point out that I was very interested in listening to the statement by the Left Member, who drew attention to all the things that need to be pointed out. I almost felt like a freeman was speaking for a while. But right now, ladies and gentlemen, the hotel base is closed, the museums are closed, and there is no profit at the moment, all the economic opportunities that are to be used, the water that is wasted, besides the same look at industry, the planning of what this industry is going to look like. It's always the freelancers, the free marketers point out that there might be some private investor, some businessman, some entrepreneur who'd like to do something about it. Maybe not, but you should try. Meanwhile, the government of law and justice says one thing, the other does. Instead of liquidating, you could put it on the market, just say that someone might want to do something about it, put it out, give some price, make a bid, think about whether this area is completely wasted in the future, and whether we will always pay for it - because it is known that we will always pay for the activities of museums - or if we could do something about it in the name of the fact that maybe there is some money to be done that the state did not want to bend over because maybe they weren't big enough to keep companies there, trade unions, so that everything could be further developed. That's all I wanted to point out, by the way, that unfortunately we have a coronavirus crisis, which Law and Justice governs in such a way that anything that could bring at least a minimum profit doesn't bring any profit, because it's closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u265	Thank you very much, sir. I'll admit, you've made me feel that way about Mr. Left. He spoke nicely. There's a tear in my eye, like I'm reading the constitution, I have to tell you. We're starting to ask questions. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. I'm setting a time limit. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is good that a good project is being continued from the times of the Civil Platform government, because the game is worth a candle - Wieliczka, Bochnia and other mines that should be secured. However, I have a question as to whether the money that has been allocated so far was sufficient money, or whether there were some tasks that had not been done as a result of the lack of resources so far. How will it be now, when we see the money weakening, the inflation rising, and we see that the money that is being subsidised in the light of this bill can be insufficient money? And you have introduced non-Objective criteria, i.e. a multiplier depending on the cost that will be incurred as a result of the work in this museum, in favour of rigid money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please inform me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u267	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u268	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you clearly indicate that the acquisition of the Central Pump Room Bolko and the transfer of the assets of this pumping plant to the Company for Restructuring of Mines will also bring financial benefits in addition to the smooth functioning of the operation. I'd like to hear from you what the benefits will be. Is that countable or incalculable? How much does the state budget spend every year on pumping this water into this company? We know well that this is a private company, today we want to include it in the obligations of the Company for Restructuring of Mines. Using these few seconds, I would like to invite you to Silesia to the Guido Mine. We have a great mine. You can come, see, touch, change into a dagger's costume, a miner and walk through these paths, see the mining machines. You're welcome. I moved from Bochnia to Silesia, so it means something. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u269	Thank you very much. You're so beautifully invited, I'm going to pack. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An important change introduced in the draft of this law is the acquisition by the Company of Restructuring of Mine in Bytom, including grants, the Central Pump Room Bolko, aimed at securing neighbouring mines against water risk. SRK is a company of the State Treasury established for the liquidation of mines. Nevertheless, he is currently engaged in a wide range of activities that are not always linked to his mission. E.g. owns 3,000. the mine buildings in which there are almost 16 thousand. apartments with nearly 37 thousand. The tenants. The tenants of many of these buildings have been demanding for many years from the SRK the possibility of buying their apartments on preferential terms in order to establish housing communities. Unfortunately, in many cases, this process has led to the detriment of the inhabitants for years, for example. Sośnica, Gliwice district. So I'd like to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the current adoption of additional measures by the SRK not result in a slowing down of the tasks entrusted to it so far and even more mess than has been the case so far? Isn't that the only reason this decision is because of the desire to maintain as long and artificially as possible well-paid posts in the SRK? Because it's certainly not about the well-being of the people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u271	Thank you very much. We will now connect remotely with Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko. Welcome, Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u272	Welcome. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Act provides for grants for many mines, among others. The Bochnia Salt Mine, whose history dates back to 3.5 thousand. Years B.C.E. This is an extremely important law not only for the mines, but also for the inhabitants of Bochnia, because many of them work in this mine, which is why these works, which are planned for the implementation of this grant, are extremely important. Many centuries of salt exploitation led to the creation of a huge complex of underground excavations. Some of them have been preserved, made available for sightseeing and represent an extraordinary historical, tourist and cultural value, but others require many specialized mining works aimed at securing, filling with sand or other material. The execution of these works guarantees the preservation of this priceless monument. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Minister, I have a question. What is the amount of the subsidy allocated to the Bochnia Salt Mine, how much money will be transferred over the years? By the way, I would like to invite all residents, not only the inhabitants of Silesia, but also the whole of Poland, to visit the extremely beautiful Salt Mine Bochnia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u273	Thank you very much. We already have a second invitation, so I don't know where we're going in the end. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u274	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, as for the direction of the tours, I always recommend Gdynia. [[Joy in the Chamber]] High Izbo! As many as 150 million grants per year for three salt mines and a mining museum are of course large money that belong to these institutions, but it must be remembered that the budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences is only 90 million. During the pandemic, PAN scientists created both a test and a special device to connect two patients to one ventilator. Of course, we're talking about a professional approved ventilator, not a Far East counterfeit purchased from an arms dealer. Question: "Wouldn't it be better to spend part of the budget of the Institute of National Remembrance to save the salt mine?" The IPN itself per year It costs us more than PLN 400 million, and it must be made clear that digging salt is more glorious than digging in files. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Ruseck of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer here to the scandalous statement by Mr Dziambor, who wants to privatise, ladies and gentlemen, the treasure of the Wieliczka Salt Mine. Mr. Speaker! It's a monument to history, national pride. This is the seventh miracle in Poland, in the plebiscite. That's... Read about the mine at all, or I'd run out of time to tell you the value of the salt mines in Wieliczka and Bochnia. It used to be a quarter vault of the state, the Republic of Poland. In addition to what you saw on the tour, these miracles are crystal caves, natural monuments. Hallstones have been in various world museums since the 19th century. It's almost 2 million tourists a year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, this is also unfortunately 3,000. empty chambers that must be secured for future generations. These measures are necessary. And please, Minister... Are we gonna make that grant by the end of the year? Because it's the security and the national treasure, and the city that's on the surface. There is also a threat of fresh water in the mine. In 1991, there was a massive leak from Mina's cross. I would really like to invite you to a lesson in history, knowledge and the economy of the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u277	Thank you, Member. Of course, I'd like to invite you to the Wieliczka. You're welcome... As a correction, may I? Mr President, you must go. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Can I get a corrigendum? If I could... In the correction mode you can always, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say, only that it does not last six times longer than the words that you have said, because we will intervene in principle by calling the Marshal's Guard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u278	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! You have to let go of my speech one more time. I didn't say anything about privatizing a mine in Wieliczka. I said that there are plenty of opportunities around here that could be exploited, which the government doesn't want to use, or which it doesn't use very well. And I just dropped it as an idea for the future. This grant actually seems necessary at this point in time, in this case. In fact, there is a need to think about where to earn money. Or where you can give it to someone who wants to do it. On the other hand, there was no mention of privatization of the mine in Wieliczka, at least at this moment. Thank you. Now I'll even give it back, not sell it...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u279	You can see that the salt mine is not salt in the eyes of the Member. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u280	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The contested bill, according to which the state budget will provide funds for valuable, specific cultural monuments in the next 7 years, is certainly good news for the four entities included in this law. However, as a Member of the Eastern Małopolska District, I would like to point out that both the Wieliczka Salt Mine and the Bochnia Salt Mine have no production activity. The main activities are work related to the decommissioning and security of mining plants and the maintenance, protection and rescue of historic parts of mines in accordance with the decisions issued - Geological and mining law. For these salt mines, the revenues generated by companies in the field of tourism and commercial activities cannot be an alternative to financing the security process. It is about the costs of the work being carried out due to the need to use special materials (The Bell), the hiring of specialized workers, as well as specialized technologies. Today, mines are experiencing a difficult time due to the lack of tourists and the current economic account in these mines is really difficult to balance. My question, Mr Minister: Despite the good proposals in this law, does the Ministry see that these amounts may be too small, and can the mines in question count on aid outside those amounts which have been included in this draft law? Thank you for your attention and I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u281	You're welcome, sir. Today, we are having a discussion with love. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, Central Pompońnia Bolko is quite an old device, and its work depends on flood safety in a very large Vistula area. It can be noted that this pumping plant must pump about 13 million m
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw your attention to a certain aspect of this law. In 2013, thanks to the introduction of these regulations, not only the Coal Mining Museum - I will focus on the Luiza and Guido historic mine - received the grant itself and the funds to secure the work, but also this grant has become a kind of leverage, which has enabled huge amounts to be raised, funds from the European Union to mobilise this unique - I am not afraid to say it - on a global scale. Such a solution, when you can authentically go underground and see how the miners worked at the beginning, is nowhere to be found. There's one important thing about this. By then, the museum has already gained over PLN 300 million for this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these are the millions that the government is trying to deprive us of by vetoing the EU budget. There is also an interesting thing: it turns this grant, which was an entity grant, into a subsidy in question. Did he really predict that there would be no EU money and that the whole activity of this project would rest on the shoulders of local governments, local governments and the city of Zabrza? And these small security work - because EU funds will no longer - will have to be patched up by a small one or a budget grant. I have a question about the real reason for this change. Was it true that my cassandra predictions were also a prerequisite for such regulation by the government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u285	Thank you. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 1 billion PLN, which will be rounded up to cost this law, however, is quite high amount. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Has there ever been an audit of the quality and efficiency of management in these units? Have they assessed the possibilities that stand before them, or are they being exploited? Is the assets of these entities properly used? Because, of course, it's very easy to transfer a sum of money. On the other hand, the question is whether, on the spot, this property is well-developed so that this sum is as appropriate as possible to the real needs. The second question concerns a grant, which was to amount to 723 700 000 in 2014 and-2020, as we read in the explanatory memorandum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it comes to the Wieliczka salt mine. On the other hand, only 437 700 thousand were transferred. Here we have dealt with ecstasy about these mines, especially the one in Wieliczka. Hence the question: Why did the Government of Law and Justice not transfer this amount when it is so important and necessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u287	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to ask two people: Minister Arthur Sobonia, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, and rapporteur for the answer. I have a request for you. Since this is not a very conflicting bill, could you respond quickly and in a condensed manner? We'd have more guarantee that we'd be done at hours. 23, not e.g. at 3 p.m. 3. Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna ask you to answer in writing so that the Minister doesn't have to... In one sentence. Oh, great. Thank you very much. We enter in the minutes: reply in writing. The Minister will be... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll adapt to that expectation. All the more so because all these votes - thank you for them - are votes in favour of working efficiently, quickly on this bill. Yes, by replying to Mrs Rusecka to make it to the end of the year and to pay it from the beginning of next year. There is one misunderstanding - I am addressing Mr Dziambor - which I would like to make clear in this debate. These measures have nothing to do with COVID. I mean. These are not measures resulting from a decrease in revenues from tourism activities, but are measures linked to the grant for decommissioning and security of these sites. Please bear in mind that lack of security is simply a threat in the form of a mining disaster and a security threat. Therefore, these are measures which are thus, and only so, used. Mr Necessary mentioned the possibility of using this water for municipal purposes. SRK's working on it. Here is the need for good coordination, cooperation with local governments, with waterworks. But it's theoretically possible, of course, so I would recommend SRK too. Mr Nowak drew attention to the standards. Mr President, I answered that question yesterday. These are really realistic measures. It's the effect that counts. They will be cleared and spent for this purpose. Yes, about Mr Gadowski's question. I can actually calculate them. Within 7 years, i.e. the period covered by the bill, this would be 24 million, while for 10 years - up to 69 million savings. As to whether SRK will now focus on these safeguards, this water pumping and no longer dealing with apartments, of course there are two different activities. As regards these grants, it is Mrs Szczurek-Żelazko's questions, in the case of Bochnia it is 173 million, and in the case of Wieliczka it is 550 million during this period. Mr Rutka asked if it was worth doing his duty and commitment to history. We do it in such a way that we secure monuments, but we do it also through the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. These two activities, these two commitments not only do not exclude each other, but complement each other. I reply to the Krajewski Member that, of course, these entities can obtain and obtain other resources, whether it is COVID support or funds from NFOŚ, the European Union and the Climate Ministry. Yes, I am replying to Mr Tchórzewski, and we are planning that since 2025 this will be deep-water drainage. This is the schedule that the SRK presented. I reassure Mrs Lenartowicz. We do not plan for anyone else to have this task than the state budget, no local governments or anyone else. That's the job we're doing. I would just like to point out that if in previous years the museum received 3,6 million for this purpose, it is 16 million in our programme. That's what I'm paying attention to. I would gently call your question a misunderstanding. On the other hand, Mr Suchoni is told that he monitors, audites the correctness of the implementation of these tasks by the Industrial Development Agency in Katowice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u289	Thank you very much. Corrigendum. You feel like you need to be corrected, don't you? There you go, let's let go of the Member who will correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u290	Minister! I want to emphasize, because it is also in your justification, that a percentage of the cost of running this museum, and you write it yourself, that the day-to-day operation should finance local governments because they are the founding body. That's why you're moving away from the subjective subsidy to the one in question, withdrawing from cancer. I said this because thanks to our law, these local authorities have been given a leverage to apply for European funds in the case of the museum. I said it's 300 million zlotys. If this grant is no longer an entity grant, it will not allow the application and preparation of such projects. That is why I said that perhaps you think that these EU funds will no longer be available, and that this grant, which is planned here, will serve only to secure these facilities, which the Treasury is obliged to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u291	The honourable Member has corrected, everything is clear. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Debates, both in committee and present, were a sign of concern for the monuments of our economic culture. I would therefore like to thank all the Members of the Committee, the Parliament's Committee on Energy, Climate and State Acts, very warmly for their commitment and for the way they work, which has given such an effect that we will be able to adopt this law by the end of this year. I would also like to thank the Minister and all the staff of the Ministry and all the staff of the committee. The point is to make it more efficient. The threat of not entering into force at the end of the year would be a big problem for our mines and at the same time for museums. Its entry into force at the end of the year is extremely important, which is why I thank you once again for the smooth and good procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u293	Thank you, sir, for your kind words. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 58 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, printing 772, and on the Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, printing 773. High Izbo! The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent these drafts to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading on 25 November 2020. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering these draft laws at its meeting on 26 November 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. I would also like to inform you that we adopted three amendments at the committee meeting. Two amendments were rejected and these two amendments of the Left Parliamentary Club were tabled as minority proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u295	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice praised and supported the bill for which she was rapporteur, Mrs Urszula Rusecka. Now he's gonna do it again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u296	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The basis for the amendment of the Act is the creation of a legal basis allowing a worker or another person employed in isolation at home due to a positive test for SARS-CoV-2 virus to perform remote work. The legislator has regulated this issue in the case of quarantine. The Act proposes the introduction of an equivalent solution enabling domestic isolation workers who do not exhibit symptoms of COVID-19 disease or whose symptoms are mild in nature, to perform remote work. In the event of a deterioration in the worker's health during his/her remote work during his/her home isolation, he/she shall be entitled to sickness pay. In order to harmonise the proposed solutions, the issue of benefits granted during the period of incapacity for work during the quarantine period as well as during the period of isolation in the home environment has been regulated. The Act also proposes to allow suspended medical, psychological, training and testing of train drivers' knowledge and periodic examinations. The proposed mechanism will make it easier for rail medicine to carry out the necessary research both during and after the outbreak. In addition, what the proposed law amends is that the entry into force of the above amendments is equivalent to the restoration of the legal status in force prior to the entry into force of the Law of 31 March 2020 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention and prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws concerning the appointment of members of the Council of Social Dialogue. The proposed amendment also introduces an occasional solution to abolish the trade ban on Sunday 6 December 2020 in commercial establishments. In December 2020, two commercial Sundays for 13 and 20 December were provided for in the Act. The pre-Christmas period, especially before Christmas, is a period in which the number of customers purchasing is significant. In order to decompose this process over time and thus reduce the number of customers shopping at the same time, it is appropriate to introduce an additional commercial Sunday on 6 December. On the one hand, this will allow the maintenance of sanitary restrictions due to the ongoing epidemic and on the other hand will have a positive impact on entrepreneurs, contributing to improving their situation. Designed and proposed solutions are the result of requests made by both employees and employers. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice asks for a positive opinion on the above draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u297	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u298	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on draft laws amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints No 772, 773 and 778. An important change in the draft law in print No 772 is the regulation of remote work during the illness caused by SARS-CoV-19 during the quarantine period and during the isolation period. The regulation will allow many people to retain their right to pay. It should be borne in mind that one of the basic obligations of the employer is to provide workers with safe and hygienic working conditions. During the pandemic, this obligation becomes particularly important. Moreover, by targeting the remote work of infected workers, the employer protects other employees. About 16.5 million people are active in Poland. According to Rzeczpospolita, during the second wave of pandemics, about 1/3 of the workers could switch to remote work, i.e. more than 5 million people. For people who have a positive SARS-CoV-2 virus test and have mild and asymptomatic disease, remote work with 100% payout is a better option than 80% sick pay salary. The remuneration for the duration of the disease shall be payable for a period of not more than 33 days of the disease. This remuneration shall be paid by the employer. If the insured person exceeds the limit of 33 days, he/she shall be entitled to a sickness benefit which is paid directly by the Social Insurance Institution. Thus, for quarantine or isolation periods, it may generally be paid for the duration of the illness or sickness benefit. Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition proposes to pay 100% the basis for the size of the allowance during the quarantine period, isolation. We propose that the benefit be paid from the Social Insurance Fund and that it actually amounts to 100%. The draft law also included a provision restoring the legal status in force prior to the entry into force of the Law of 31 March 2020 concerning the dismissal of members of the Council of Social Dialogue. The special act adopted at the end of March allowed the Prime Minister to dismiss members of the board appointed by employers or trade unions during the period of the epidemic threat. Among other things, he protested against these solutions. President of the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity, which pointed out that the back door was introduced into the Act, which undermines the sovereignty and limits the independence of the social partners in the Council of Social Dialogue by granting the President of the Council of Ministers the power to dismiss the members of the Council, unfortunately not only for illustrative reasons but also for other, more indeterminate reasons. After the changes, as is apparent from the draft law, the Prime Minister will no longer have the power to dismiss the members of the Social Dialogue Council because, as stated, there is no possibility of a transparent, substantive and regular dialogue. The proposed amendment of the Act of 10 January 2018 on the restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days introduces an episodeary solution to abolish trade on Sunday 6 December of this year. This is a legitimate change as the pre-Christmas period is a particular time of intensive shopping and in order to spread this process over time, thus reducing the number of customers shopping, it is justified to introduce an additional commercial Sunday. It's a shame you're doing this so late. It's almost 60%. Poles want a complete temporary abolition of the trade ban on Sundays during the pandemic, and only 27% It's against the idea. And here's a little curiosity, ladies and gentlemen. Even the voters of Law and Justice would like to abolish the trade ban on Sundays. It's 53.5%. those who support the ruling party. Therefore, the Civic Coalition proposes to return to commercial Sundays in 2021. In the current situation, despite the recommendations related to social distance, queues are still being created in shops, mainly on Saturdays. This is particularly important for older people, disabled people, carers, for whom safety rules for wearing masks, disinfection and social distance are important, so that without contact with a large number of people, minimise the risk of getting sick or getting infected by a person under their care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second point concerns the economic and economic situation. There's about 400,000 in shopping malls. persons. If brands that can't make up for their losses start shutting down unprofitable stores, thousands of jobs will disappear, which today are mainly filled by young people, students. Etats can also disappear from companies operating shopping malls. Each shopping gallery has a dozen contracts with external companies signed today. As economists point out, Poland is entering the recession phase with very low GDP. Trade is a very important pillar of economic development in this GDP. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club amends its amendment to extend the abolition of trade on Sundays for the whole 2021 year. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this project, but we are making three amendments. In addition to the amendment, which concerns 100% the basis for the benefit to be paid from the Social Insurance Fund for the period of incapacity for work due to SARS-CoV-2 virus disease, we propose abolishing the trade ban on Sunday 2021 and propose that winter holidays in the school year 2020/2021 last between 4 January 2021 and 14 March 2021. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm making appropriate adjustments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u299	Thank you, Commissioner, for the appropriate amendments. I invite you, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are in the 10th month of the epidemic and are leaning on a problem that affects millions of workers and workers. Every day we learn about 300,000 and sometimes about 500,000. quarantined persons. Until now, all of these people had no right to do remote work from quarantine, even if they had the opportunity. It is only today that the government is proposing solutions in this area. The left had already spoken about it in March. Workers need the solutions proposed because they will enable them to work during the quarantine transition and, consequently, they will not lose part of their income. This is an important regulation for workers and entrepreneurs, but this is another example of a lack of strategic thinking and planning for legislative action. We are working at the last minute again and again we are giving citizens another reason to lose confidence in the law. We get multiple reports that the employees are afraid to report symptoms to the doctor, afraid to go to the test. It's not because they're afraid of the virus, it's because they don't want to lose part of their pay. The government ignores cases of people who cannot do remote work because of the nature of their work. Minister, not everyone can work on a laptop in their home. The government also forgets that whole families are going to quarantine, and it is really difficult to work remotely when they have little children under their care. Therefore, full witnessing during quarantine is not only a responsible social policy, it is also an expression of responsibility for the health of Poles and Poles. Therefore, as a Left, we have proposed an amendment that will ensure 100% salaries for persons in quarantine and isolation in order to support all those in need so that workers do not have to be afraid of contact with the health care centre in fear of losing their income, especially since they can be placed more than once in quarantine. During the committee's work as a Left, we tabled another important and necessary amendment, we proposed a solution important and important for many workers. It's 150%. the salary allowance for persons working on an additional commercial Sunday on 6 December. This is a postulate of workers and trade unions, which we have been talking about for a long time. In the Labour Code, this supplement is only 100% And you want to set up an extra day of work a few days in advance, a few days before that day. The Left amendment is an amendment that gives support to workers who need it so badly during the epidemic and will be dragged to the last minute on an extra Sunday to work in order to thicken the number of customers in shops. Unfortunately, Law and Justice and the Civic Coalition have jointly rejected this amendment. Shame. However, I have good news for you: we have tabled this amendment as a minority motion, so you still have a chance to correct this mistake. You have some time, so think about how you want to vote, and think about whether or not you want to vote in favour so that employees can be properly paid in extra working time. Our amendment is consistent with the demands of the OPZZ, which Mr Schreiber referred to yesterday during the committee meeting. On Sunday, December 6th, the registration repealing the ban on trade goes to the Sejm too late. The workers and employers are once again surprised by the last minute solutions, and once again we see the costs of the epidemic being passed on to the workers. Today, on 27 November, we will send this bill to the Senate, the Senate will have 30 days to take office, after that time, ladies and gentlemen, it will be 3 weeks from this Sunday, which you wish to appoint as an additional commercial Sunday. Why do we have to shorten all deadlines again? Why do we have to make another fight with time? After all, Prime Minister Morawiecki had already announced two commercial Sundays in the plan, and there were no proposals concerning Sunday 6 December. So where's your plan and your strategy? The Left supports the proposed bill, but once again we appeal: show this strategy, Polish and Poles deserve much more than statutory contributions at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u301	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u302	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! At this stage of parliamentary work, I would like to address two issues relating to this law. The first case is an additional commercial Sunday on December 6. Of course, we support this as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives. The argument of the government project is the same as our club. Of course, the project of the Polish People's Party is much better than the government, going further. This is not only about our arguments, but also about the positive opinions of other clubs, but it is not all because the opinions of trade unions, representatives and employers, and trade unions, such as those expressed at yesterday's committee meeting, are the most important for us. What am I criticizing this project for? For the government's running at five to twelve. It reminds me of a story before November 1 with chrysanthemums and ruins, where last minute decisions were made. When did the government find out that Sunday was coming on December 6th? I hope that such surprising rules will not introduce a situation in which the Senate will not have the chance to respond, and in fact today's discussion will become unproductive. We propose, in parallel, a procedated first-reading act to abolish the trade ban on Sundays throughout the epidemic period and 60 days after its completion. The arguments are obvious, they concern the thickening of people who choose to shop, especially on Saturday and Friday, but we also work for entrepreneurs who are in a very difficult situation during the epidemic as well as for workers. There was also a discussion about workers and I always say and we will say that even if work is harder, it is better than unemployment. This is particularly expressed by the representatives of those industries that are protesting today because they are not included in any government list of companies due to the issue of Polish classification of activities, sectors which are not covered by the aid. Yesterday it was the laundry industry, earlier the cleaning industry, such industries omitted by the government are really many. There is also a second point, very interesting, that is, a change concerning the Social Dialogue Council, where the government withdraws from the changes that it introduced in March this year with a shameful amendment adopted in the middle of the night. Today he withdraws from this, the Prime Minister will no longer be able to discreetly remove the members of the Social Dialogue Council. That change really was a shame for Poland, and I hope that, in the wake of today's amendment, an apology will also follow, that someone from the government will come to this pulpit and apologize to all the members of the Social Dialogue Council for those amendments, which are unworthy of the democratic state, which is a member of the European Union. We have been protesting from the very beginning, our club, our leader Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish has clearly spoken out against these changes that were adopted in March. The same was true of the representatives of the various sides of the Social Dialogue Council. Even, surprisingly, the politician leader of the trade union protested. That's what you need to take, too. especially since it declares that after the amendment of this law it will return to the Council of Social Dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will not vote against this law because it contains a few reasonable points, but also the most important points fix what has been done before. That's typical. The best are such laws that remove the previous laws. The fact that you can't work remotely when you're in quarantine is, of course, completely absurd. That's all my predecessor said about removing the members of the Social Dialogue Council, and so on, that's absurd, which is now being removed by this law. The question is, why is the government doing all this? The government says trade this Sunday, not trade this Sunday. It turns it, once into this one, once into that one. There's one big noise and a mess. Why is the government doing all this? The government is only doing this to make people think the government is doing something. That's why the government is doing something and the government is doing something, ladies and gentlemen, doing something. Meanwhile, there are governments who haven't done anything. I will give an example of Brazil: a country seven times larger than Poland, and at the moment dies on COVID twice as many people a day than in Poland. Sweden: it is known that almost no one is dying. In Brazil, fewer people die than in Poland. There's a special case. His Excellency Alexander Lukashenka explained that vodka helps at COVID. And it really helps in the sense that Belarusians die quickly as a result of drinking, while old people die of COVID and Belarusians do not live to this age. Thus the excellent results of Belarus in this area. Anyway, I repeat, the purpose of the government is to show that it's doing something. However, if the government had not done so, the effects would have been exactly the same, and perhaps even better, perhaps worse. But we didn't accept lockdown, quarantine. That wouldn't be the whole problem. The government, because it's doing something, gets huge amounts of money that it manipulates, can bribe different social groups -- these ladies, these ladies, according to the principle: the coconut was brewing, it gave it a little bit, it gave it a little bit, it gave it a little bit, it gave it a little bit, it gave it a little bit, it gave it a little bit -- it flew off, it flew off, it didn't. And that's how you buy. You do things you shouldn't do at all just to make it seem like you're doing something. We, ladies and gentlemen, are protesting this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u305	Thank you, sir. No doubt it was logical what you said. Excuse me? No, that's great. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, it was. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u306	It's rare to have a meeting lately where we wouldn't have adopted another version of a shield, patch or so-called overlay. Shields. And each time the next group is passed, the next group is raised, which has been omitted this time in the draw. How is it possible that six months we are making new editions, and still out of the system there are taxi drivers, and these are stagers, and these are now gastronomy facilities? In my opinion, there are two reasons. The first is the casuistics, that is, what PiS-owska legislation likes most: some include some specific regulations, others, and others do not include themselves at all. The rules should be the same for all. In fact, the entire shield should consist of several points, more or less in that way, that if the industry is subject to a ban on its activities, then it is appropriate to do so and such compensation should be offset in proportion to losses, etc. If the industry hasn't closed down, but someone has suffered a significant reduction in turnover due to the freezing, then it's due to this, both, plus a few things that anybody can benefit from: some facilitations, exemptions. That's it, that's it, without any preference, discrimination, special rights for every industry, depending on which one goes to the minister. The second reason, of course, is that the government surprises itself with its new ideas to sabotage the economy. 'Cause who'd have thought we'd be building a break at one time? I'm sure nobody's sober. Neither did the government predict this brilliant idea, so it also failed to include other devastated industries in its special programs. Which, for these reasons, made it impossible for the government to anticipate the need for remote work, I don't know, I don't think anyone knows that. And that's the question I'm leaving you with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u307	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. I'm setting time for questioning -- one minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u308	Very cordial, Mr. Marshal, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! We are making amendments because this is already another state law that selectively treats the scope of the aid. Firstly, we are making amendments to save the tourism industry, which lives only because it is winter holidays. If the children are actually going back to school on 17 January, I personally strongly urge them to support the amendment that the holidays should take place on an old basis to extend them until March and while maintaining sanitary elements, allow children, parents to rest, especially mental rest, and the industry to survive. Glass Poręba, Karpacz, Świeradów Zdrój - 70% People don't have jobs because of the pandemic. 70% People don't have jobs. This is the first amendment. The second concerns the elimination of trade on Sundays with the possibility of giving and providing workers with two Sundays free each month. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is essential that hundreds of thousands of workers can maintain their jobs and find themselves on the market during the pandemic period. Please support these amendments. It is the Polish interest of the state to save Polish trade, Polish workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u309	Thank you, sir. It's interesting for the kids, by the way. They'll be able to use the slope, living in hotels on business. It's an interesting story. Yes, sir. Here you go, Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Mr. Marshal pointed out that without open hotels, without accommodations, these holidays would be impossible. Therefore, because this is a chain of related vessels, it is during the winter break which could be extended in time from the proposed by the government 2 weeks to 10 weeks, they could all on their dates, when it comes to each voivodeship, take a safe break, because simply this movement The tourist would have spread out. Hotels wouldn't be crowded, there wouldn't be a lot of people on the slopes, and I'm already overlooking the fact that traffic jams on the access roads would also disappear. And above all, we would save the economy, we would save the tourism industry, we would save jobs and children who are tired of remote education in their homes, they could at least spend some time outdoors for a while, because physical activity (The Bell) in the fight against COVID is very much needed and this is one of the measures to prevent the disease of COVID-19. Thank you very much. And the question to the PiS Club is whether it will accept this amendment, whether it will support our very good proposals, legislative solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u311	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 of this law you are introducing an emergency solution to abolish the trade ban on Sunday 6 December. In your explanatory memorandum, you state that this decision will, on the one hand, allow the maintenance of sanitary restrictions in relation to the ongoing epidemic and, on the other hand, will have a positive impact on entrepreneurs, starting with improving their financial situation. Ladies and gentlemen! As is well known, the epidemic will not stop so soon and will not end in December this year. Therefore, since you care about the health of citizens and improving the situation of entrepreneurs, it might be worth restoring the possibility of trade on Sundays permanently. Yeah, permanently. Think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor. Am I? I quit, thank you very much. A conspiracy that's quitting. Fight. No? Well, then, no. Good. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'm a Krkonoše girl, and I know the consequences of those limitations that the government is introducing. I ask why the government does not ask entrepreneurs who run lifts, who have holiday homes, hotels that organize every year holidays for children during the break season, whether they are able to secure or create such conditions, so that children and people arriving are safe. After all, for a few days we had information that even lifts and slopes would be closed, and entrepreneurs, in order to snow the slope, already had to spend 20,000. zł. That's why I think if the government doesn't talk to entrepreneurs, if it continues to ignore them, these restrictions will cause total chaos, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nothing good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Civic Coalition. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the government is unaware of the damage it will do to tourist destinations, entrepreneurs, local governments, introducing the lockdown of these tourist destinations. Because what the government did is a tourist town lockdown. It's not a rational tightening, it's a closure of a tourist destination. A massive hit on the tourism industry. Today in Parliament we stand a wall behind all these entrepreneurs, employees, residents, local governments that you forgot, seems to be behind the towns that you want to close. You want to close Szczyrk, Vistula, Ustroń, Brenna, Istebna, many other tourist destinations. And they live out of it, they need these tourists. Instead of introducing draconian restrictions that do not lead to anything, an amendment of the Civic Coalition must be adopted. We want an extension of the term break, we want stretches, so that they're safe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want hotels released. We want the residents to be able to work normally. Today, the government should put in place such sanitary restrictions so that its activities can normally be carried out. This is the government's job today. And the question is, will you be able to do it? We are waiting for solutions for tourist destinations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two lines. The first one is commercial Sundays. You want to bring in December 6th and okay. Mrs Kozłowska tabled an amendment on our behalf for the whole 2021. On the other hand, Sunday 27 December remains. This is a 3-day period without shopping. Entrepreneurs appeal, however, that this Sunday, December 27, may also allow or suspend non-commercial Sundays for 180 days at all, but this is actually exhausting our amendment. So I'm asking you to agree to this. On the one hand, we are helping the economy, on the other hand we are decomposing this movement, which will probably accumulate after this three-day holiday period. And the second point, which is the issue of spring break. I also support this idea to extend the period of spring break from 2 to 10 weeks. Tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in the mountains, in the south of Poland have a problem, restaurants, hotels, guides, pilots. It's really gonna be very important to them. Minister Niedzielski said that during the strikes (the bell) there was no increase in disease, this is fresh air. Skiing's probably gonna be the same. With the right sanitary regime, we can do it. So agree to this conclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u320	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Sundays. The trade ban on Sundays should be lifted during the pandemic. This is a fact and many issues, arguments for this. We can't change human nature. People want to shop and that's it. And we, blocking Sundays, expose people to too many people in one place. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, I asked the government about the analogy of one free Sunday, the consent to trade Sunday on 6 December, in relation to the next Christmas which awaits us, i.e. Easter. The answer, of course, was that soon the vaccine would appear and we will deal with this problem. I hope so. But let's look at the cascade of action and ask for an answer. Easter is April 4th. If the government does not want to make the same mistakes, i.e. last minute amendments, it should probably start operations in two months. When will the moment when the state (the bell) recognize that the epidemic will not end and again need to add one commercial Sunday before Easter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! For a long time, experts have said that not shopping malls, not shops, not hotels, all the more so ski slopes are the most risky places when it comes to the distribution of coranavirus. A team of experts has recently been appointed to the President of the Council of Ministers. There should be a smooth exchange of this information, which should then become the basis for choosing directions when it comes to government decisions. I would like to ask the ministers: How often do these meetings take place with experts at the President of the Council of Ministers? How many of these meetings have been held so far? Because it's hard not to get the impression that there's a team, there's experts, there's just this dialogue that's missing. I'd appreciate it, even if it were a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u323	Thank you very much. We're done with the questions. I would like to ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, Łukasz Schreiber, to speak. You're welcome, Minister. I'll join you in a quick question. Don't treat it absolutely as malice, because it's not vicious. There's a legal fiction we all know about these hotels. Well, as you know, and I'm saying this based on what's going on right now, hotels are closed to visitors, except for business trips. If these kids go on spring break on these free slopes, because the slopes are freed, where are they supposed to sleep? 'Cause right now it's a situation, you know, I know from hotel friends that there are business reservations for children. I mean, workplaces, business... In a word: plotting, even absurd, as we all know. How do you want to deal with this fiction? I'm just curious to be honest with my wife. Thank you. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the discussion yesterday, at the meeting of the Family and Social Policy Committee, for this discussion here. Well, it can be noted that the level of connection between this discussion and the bill is anything more limited than yesterday, but good. I also understand that, despite the fact that this project has the support of a relatively large number of Members, this is the need for such a ritual distinction of differences. I will try to answer these questions briefly. Discussion about commercial Sundays, how trade should work, is a discussion at a completely different moment and on a completely different occasion. These are the system solutions we've proposed. As it was also presented in the Seym, as you could see, it did not hit the trade, it did not hit the entrepreneurs at all. In fact, for some of them, for a group of these smaller entrepreneurs it turned out to be beneficial, because I will remind you that shopkeepers, who own themselves, these shops can run on Sundays, can open. Let's move on. You propose, there were a number of such voices: from Sunday 27 December to the year 2021. We are not able to agree to this solution, as the government, we are not able to support it. That's one thing. Secondly, there are again a number of such systemic voices, one can say, concerning how the supplement is to be counted, i.e. the remuneration for the work or for the change of the sickness allowance to 100%. Oh, no, this is ridiculous. Well, then it's completely different from the Labour Code and so on. We're giving people the opportunity to work in isolation. High Izbo! Let's move on. Safe holidays. We hear 10 weeks. Well, there's an idea that... I understand, of course, that this results from representatives, especially of those regions affected by this situation. But that is why this has been announced in advance so that, first of all, we can prepare good solutions for these entrepreneurs. It's about solutions that will compensate them for real losses. Secondly, we're still trying to lead, we're still trying to be consistent. Because two things are extremely important to us. On the one hand, hospitals in Poland, health care in Poland, doctors who work, and doctors... The idea is to keep the whole health care system functional. On the other hand, it is about making the economy suffer as little as possible. And that's the foundation of our actions, that's what we've been doing since the beginning. State, I have the impression, depending on how comfortable it is, what kind of subject it is worth discussing.... On the one hand, you're screaming how bad it is, what kind of health care kids go to school - it's terrible, it's tragic, it's contagious. And on the second day, you can go out to that podium and say, "Let's go on spring break, let's all go to hotels, and it's gonna be great, great, 'cause they need a break." And on January 17th, will they return, Minister, to schools or not? High Izbo! I'm asking you to be rational about this. After all, it cannot be done in such a way, and it cannot be treated as having fun or trying to gain a few points each time, addressing contradictory messages to completely different groups. Minister, will the children return to school on January 17th? I ask for predictability in all of this and for consistency. Tell them consistently that children should go to school then. And that would be a consequence, but you don't. I don't know an epidemiologist, I don't know a specialist, although I attend meetings of the Government Emergency Management Team, who would say that hotels aren't a source of infection. I don't know anyone who would say that. I do not know people who would say that it is safe, because the first wave, a whole series of diseases involved what was happening in people coming back from abroad, then with skis and all other trips. High Izbo! That's the facts, and that's what needs to be taken into account. I don't think we all want to bring about a tragedy (the Bell) in health care and a worsening situation that, hopefully today, is under control. That is why we have proposed this solution. I also answer the question of a marshal who pointed out that a number of people are trying to celebrate the law. Yeah, it's just... I'll turn it around. If we say we leave everything as it was, open hotels, open guesthouses, all open, then the number of those people would certainly be enormously larger than those who will benefit from this solution today, even if they cheat. Of course ski slopes are not a place to be afraid of infection. Of course physical activity is welcome. Only the problem isn't those slopes that are open, and the situations where someone lives close or someone wants to come back for one day. There you go, he'll have the opportunity. But the problem is that people are just getting into hotels where there's always an exchange of hotels where they come after each other all the time and they're filled with places. You're offering this country, too. Give the opinion of epidemiologists who would support such a solution as to sign it. I can't believe they're gonna turn up like this. As I move on, I'm trying to answer your questions. Oh, the honourable Member spoke of the government pretending to be trying to do something. I understand the opposition has every right to be criticized. And you're probably right that we make mistakes, too. I can probably apologize for any of them. Yeah, it happens. But it doesn't come from bad will. It's not because we want to do something to spite the state or anyone else. We also try, if we see that we've made such a mistake, or if there's nothing left. quite well-defined, fix it, also in this law. If you are giving an example of Sweden and we are talking about whether it is better for the government to do something or not to do anything - I am already ignoring the epidemiological issues, I am, I can say, the very last person who should be speaking on these issues, because it is the professionals who should speak - then let's look at the economic results, please, Poland and Sweden. Gross domestic product: Poland is second in the European Union after the pandemic, Sweden - on the seventh. Industrial production: Poland on the first, Sweden on the tenth. But Sweden is four times smaller. So maybe... [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Minister, we are going to conclude. Alternatively, answers to questions that were not answered in writing... I'm just trying to answer those questions. Corrigendum. High Izbo! Please support this project. I understand you have the right... We will respond to the amendments you have tabled. They most often deal with matters that go beyond the matter of this law. I hope, after all, that there will be a large majority in the Seym, who will be ready to support this bill. Thank you again for the discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u325	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Urszula Ruseck, will now speak. Is there anything you can say in correction mode? Yes? Was your name used?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u326	There was no name used. If I may. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... But it is not the Member who is the judge, it is me. That is why I have asked you to speak, not to decide whether Mr Boris will be able to speak or not. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal clearly doesn't like me because he once reviewed my statement. When I got your call from the marshal, he got my attention, too, so... Mr. Marshal... He said he liked it. I have the opposite opinion, I very much like the Member. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for this discussion that took place here. Thank you so much for all your comments. I think it's today at an hour. 18 we are reviewing those amendments that you have tabled. I think that the work on the amendments, in general on these major amendments to the COVID Senate Act, which we are waiting for, needs logic and reason. That is what I would like to appeal very warmly in this work. The Minister has already pointed out a lack of consistency in your views. Holidays are such a school example, because that's not what holidays are all about. You don't want to talk about schools anymore. It's just that the kids have to stay home during the winter break. Because if we're fighting an epidemic, it's about stopping social mobility. So that's not why the holidays are announced to go to the tourist resorts. I live in a tourist resort myself and I know what the situation of the tourist and gastronomic industries is like in the south of Poland. I would also like to remind you that the Government of the United Right has allocated almost 140 billion of the first shields, and now from the next shield 35 billion just to protect jobs and all those activities that are to be secured and workers and entrepreneurs. The total amount spent by the Polish government on COVID collateral is over 300 billion. Minister Schreiber also pointed to independent economic values, such as unemployment. It follows that Poland is doing well and provides good protection for this part of our health, but also for the economy. I therefore call on you to be consistent with your views and to work really hard on the next amendments that are still ahead of us so that they are not such amendments... New? ...which she reported in the previous Confederacy Act: for the bill to enter in two thousand and one hundred and twenty years, so as if the epidemic problem did not concern us at all and this aid was not needed at all. Thank you very much and once again I appeal to all the members of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, in which we work really hard and fruitfully, to adopt this law so that it can go to the Senate and that we can announce it as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u327	Thank you very much, Member. In corrigendum mode. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u328	Dear Marshal, First of all, I'd like to correct. Not only are you Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski, but I and the whole House very much like Mrs Rusecka. That's what I wanted to tell you. On the other hand, I want to correct what the Minister said. Minister! When we talked about going to remote teaching at the beginning of September when the children arrived from vacation, you did not allow this possibility. Since you do not have a clear, clear plan and strategy, children will be in isolation until the end of December, or until January 17th, in remote teaching. But they're going back to school, I understand, January 17th. Since they're going back to school, why can't they spend their holidays away from home on January 4th? After all, the Czech Republic, Italy is opening up to this. After all, in hotels and guesthouses one can adopt the sanitary system as it was during the first wave of pandemic: it was 70% Places, closed restaurants and a number of others. We're saving the tourism industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to tell you that 70% These people are out of work, so after that time, after the isolation period, there should be time until the end of December to change it while maintaining the sanitary system. Otherwise, the tourism industry will fail, will not last until the next summer season. Pay attention to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u329	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 63 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law (Prints Nos 718 and 759). I ask Mrs Teresa Pamula to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I took part in the presentation of a report on the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank law, print No. 718. The Sejm at its 21st meeting of 18 November 2020 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Commission has adopted two amendments to clarify the current rules on the net amount, on non-registered gifts and on the clarification of the rules for determining the taxable person's taxable base. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 19 November 2020, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u331	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice, to speak and to present the position of the club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice with regard to the contested document, in this case the report of the Committee on Public Finances in print No. 759, concerning the draft law on the amendment of the VAT Act and the Act on Banking Law contained in print No. 718. I will say this as follows: following the extensive changes in tax regulations which imposed a number of obligations on taxpayers, but also resulted in building a good online base, following the implementation of the transmission to the Minister of Finance's IT systems of uniform control files after each operation carried out in economic trade by taxpayers, after the implementation of the reform of the National Tax Administration, after implementation of many other regulations such as STIR, the IT system of the clearing house or the SENT system, there is a time for more detailed, detailed solutions that fall into certain segments of economic turnover. And this law, which we are discussing, extends to the area of tax-free export sales in its main assumption. In addition, it makes many technical, detailed regulations in other areas. On the other hand, we discussed it in detail at first reading in the Parliamentary Chamber. The Committee on Public Finance did not interfere too far with this document. The two amendments tabled have been accepted, which the rapporteur of the committee has discussed in detail, and I will save you from entering this matter. I would just like to point out that the Law and Justice Club consistently supports this project. At second reading, we will make a few more amendments, which are the result of a discussion within the Committee on Public Finance. After consulting the finance department, we wanted to write these things down even more precisely, these regulations concerning e.g. the reference to the amounts so that they are unambiguous in the execution of various types of economic operations, so that this does not give rise to any question of interpretation. In this area, there will be these amendments that my club, the Law and Justice Club, reports to the document. We would like to ask for further proceding and therefore directing the project to the Committee on Public Finances, of course by supporting the government's submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u333	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank law upon presentation of the report of committees, prints Nos 718 and 759. Of course, every time someone puts forward a law, a draft regulation that refers to certain facilitations, simplifications or phrases that make life easier for entrepreneurs, it should be welcomed, but on the other hand it should also be carefully analysed, because many times in history, such projects, which were presented as great facilitations, to meet entrepreneurs, turned out to be after careful analysis of the consequences, but not so great. And it's a little similar with this project. Not all the proposals contained in the government's bill meet, eliminate bureaucracy. I have the impression that there will be much more on some of the proposals for this bureaucracy. That is why we have allowed ourselves to formulate and present to the High House in second reading the nine amendments that relate to the substance of the law. These amendments show the direction in which the government should go if it really wants to make business easier if it wants entrepreneurs to do what they should do, namely business, rather than bureaucratic issues and the fulfilment of various official duties. We propose that, in the case of low value goods which are transferred by taxpayers, two burdensome records should be removed and, instead, an obligation and a restriction on the value of these goods should be introduced. We propose that it be 50 PLN. It's about removing two records and creating one for this place. That's how easy it is. Such facilitations today are expected and this is the amendment we are making. When it comes to lips. 13, which the Ministry so praised as to remove the obligation to have proof of the corrective invoice, was unfortunately converted by the Ministry to have a more indeterminate documentation which the taxpayer should produce under certain commercial arrangements. It turns out that even the Legislative Office had very serious doubts about what this project was doing during the process. This provision, which has already been granted by the Ministry itself, will require some more detailed discussion, the issue of guidelines. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely unacceptable that such legislation as it will constitute, I apologise for the expression, the hammer on the entrepreneurs who will be used by the officials, be adopted by the High House. We therefore propose that we supplement our mouths. 13 in such a way as to add correspondence to this definition. This is a simple way to agree on business terms today. e-mail correspondence, e-mail exchange - these are today's tools that entrepreneurs use. This will completely exhaust the problem and, on the other hand, protect the state's budget against losses. We are also eliminating the wording for established trading conditions. A horse with a row of who's going to interpret it. It could be a deal. One clerk at one end. Poland will say that it is a contract, and the second one at the other end of Poland will say that it is some piece of paper with signatures. There should not be such ambiguous terms in the legislation. Therefore, we remove these terms. We are also shortening the deadline for taxpayers to use uniform conditions to determine the courses, as we presented during the committee meeting. We are making a number of amendments to order, which are also the result of discussions at the committee meeting and, on the other hand, the guidelines of the Legislative Office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! On your hands, I submit amendments to the Civic Coalition and ask that they be referred to the Committee on Public Finance and adopted by Parliament in a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u335	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Tomasz Trela to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u336	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left on the government draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services and the law - Bank law. From the beginning, we have treated this project as an ordering project, and there was a lot of discussion about it at first reading, and there was a discussion at the Committee on Public Finance. As it turns out, there will also be a discussion today at the next meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. This is a very good thing because the rules that ultimately make life easier for entrepreneurs should be very widely discussed. This project contains three very detailed solutions for three areas. The first is a solution for simplifying the tax treatment of goods and services by taxpayers. VAT slim package. The second aspect is solutions of a more precise and complementary nature to certain legal structures in the tax on goods and services. And perhaps the most important and most important element - ordering changes in the refund of travel tax so-called. tax free, which is supposed to go typically to the electronic system. On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to make a declaration that the Left will support this bill and the amendment of the law, because any legislation which is intended to ultimately facilitate the functioning of the entrepreneurs deserves support, although we will examine very carefully all the proposals and amendments that will be tabled at today's meeting of the finance committee. After that, we will also present our recommendation in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u337	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland to present a position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. I would like to repeat, as at first reading, that projects such as those submitted to the High House are very happy to go first and foremost to Polish entrepreneurs who are in a difficult time and are looking forward to facilitating themselves, looking for the removal of bureaucratic barriers, the introduction of facilitations, because it is simply in the world for improving their existence. Most of these positive features or advantages of this project are worth pointing out today. The package of changes proposed by the authors comes out, as I said, in response to the expectations of entrepreneurs and meets mostly positive reception. However, I would also like to hear comments raised by VAT payers, raised since the project came to light. Namely, after the modifications introduced, the project still requires a clear signature of the traveller confirming the tax refund in the tax free system. This solution in practice introduces an important administrative barrier to the efficient, safe use of tax free. Contrary to the assertions set out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the requirement to obtain a clear travel signature does not function under the current rules. The introduction of a condition of readability is an additional barrier for entrepreneurs operating in this system. It should also be stressed that there is no definition of the legal concept of a legible signature and that the interpretation of this phrase is not clear. Another issue raised by the business community is the obligation to return in Polish currency in non-cash transactions. They draw attention to the practical dimension of the obligation to refund in Polish currency in the case of a non-cash refund and to the contradiction of this obligation with the assumption of promotion. This regulation often results in the traveler being burdened in practice at the expense of additional conversions several times in the event of a refund on the payment card. In the functioning of the currency settlement model on the market in card systems, the traveller receiving a refund in Polish zlotys on a payment card often incurs multiple costs of conversion. First the euro per dollar and then the cost of conversion into the currency in which the card account is held. This increases the costs of handling transactions up to 10% the amount of the cash refund, and therefore we believe that it is appropriate to request that the wording of the article be amended accordingly. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the VAT Act limit the obligation to apply the Polish currency only to cash returns. However, these comments do not alter the overall assessment. Our task is to continue working on this bill, in order to meet the expectations of Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u339	Thank you very much, sir. Janusz Korwin-Mikke and Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with what my previous speaker was talking about, 'cause sometimes things like that fly away. He actually proposed that the Ministry of Finance finally define what a signature is, because amazing things happen, e.g. When they demand a clear name from me. Once on bank printing, I wrote Janusz Korwin-Mikke with my left hand in capital letters, and I was accepted. I can deny it and say it's not my signature because it's not my signature. So that we finally have to do something about it. I'm going to the point. As far as taxes are concerned, the worst thing about the tax system is its constant changes. Here's another change, which, of course, is a change for the better. We agree that in many cases it is for the better, so we will not vote against it. Instead, the question arises as to why new changes must be made for the better, instead of making one change for good once. He's a better enemy of good, as we all know. Ladies and gentlemen, these changes are a simplification, and it is good that there is simplification, but simplification is not always a simplification. If e.g. - as one of my previous speakers said - you don't need to have an invoice to correct, but instead - that's the way it is said - you need to have more indeterminate documents, this is obviously not a simplification, but it is a difficulty. We ask the Ministry to take this kindly into account. He's gonna want to tell his buddy Bosak about the details now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government presents us with a project through which it makes technical changes in the way of taxation, while at a time when we are so calmly discussing, the drama of Polish entrepreneurs of many industries takes place. The drama of the gastronomic industry, the drama of the hotel industry, the drama of the tourism, event, cultural, sports industry and probably a long time could be mentioned. Prime Minister Morawiecki admitted for the first time at the press conference on Wednesday, and previously avoided this subject, that from 1 January there will be new taxes, new tributes. He said we're saving the economy from tax revenue. The reality is that the government is currently stabilizing the economy mainly by increasing debt. According to estimates using the EU methodology, the debt is expected to increase to PLN 1.5 trillion next year. Let us remind Minister Tadeusz Kościński about some comments on taxes. He said this: We will not agree to any tax increases - that is the statement of July 2020. The government is not planning work that would lead to an increase in the level of taxes or the imposition of new ones - that is, from August. Nor by 1 gr will we increase any tax next year - this is from October. What does the truth look like? The truth is that from 1 January we entered a whole group of new taxes or tax increases: trade tax, sugar tax, with which we fought and called not to destroy Polish entrepreneurs - global corporations They will deal with this tax, while Polish companies will be finished - alcohol tax in small bottles, so-called. Monkeys, the taxation of limited partnership companies, which are hindered by competition on the EU market, receive a tax advantage that they will not, for example, have. their German competitors, especially in the development industry, transport industry and many services. Polish family capital in limited companies receives additional CIT tax to pay. In addition, it is still difficult to change the legal form of agreements previously concluded with the State Development Fund. The conversion fee will then be charged for OFE, the power charge - for each Pole the electricity bill will increase accordingly - property taxes, rain tax will increase. As if all this were not enough, Prime Minister Morawiecki this year conducted his offensive in the European Union, of course offensive concerning new taxes, this time centralised, throughout the European Union. As you know, what PiS cares about most is that the European Union should have a large income of its own to be strong, centralised and federalized. That's what the PiS voters know, and that's probably why they voted for this formation. Right? All of us, with the PiS members at the head, are aware of that. I don't know why I see the surprise on your faces. Unfortunately, it's all an image of misery and despair. Polish workers have reduced wages or are on notice, entrepreneurs are bankrupt and the government is playing the best. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a drama. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Four Members joined the questions. Would anyone like to speak? If not, I'll set the time to ask you a question for one minute. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, Minister, I will explore the issue of simplification in order to replace the requirement to have proof of the invoice with a requirement to have more precise documentation, which you have included in the proposal. Minister, I would ask you to give us an in-depth explanation of what this simplification is all about, because the obligation to have one document, the confirmation of the corrective invoice, that is, the document showing that the relationship with the counterparty results, you are replacing you with a requirement to have more precise documentation, which means it is no longer a single document, a corrective invoice, but a difficult set of documents. What is this simplification, Minister? After all, it still requires a form of correspondence (the bell) to be made, to agree with its counterparty. So where's the simplification? I'd really like to ask you to... It's worse. This is, of course, worse, but perhaps the Ministry has a specific view on this subject. Therefore, Minister, please, like, I don't know, a kindergartener... Come here and explain what this simplification is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u344	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mr Arthur Dziambor, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u345	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to say that I was just checking myself on the Internet for VAT lexicon in 2018. I was a little freaked out, but I guess somebody just overreacted with all sorts of examples. There are hundreds of examples - 2800 pages in several volumes - but this is an exception. In general, these VAT lexicons are big books, they have 380, 400 pages each. That's all you have to read to understand how you manage to build this tax. And you could, of course, do something for people who run their businesses. For VAT payers, for all of us. After all, we are all VAT payers. You might want to think about evening up the stakes. Over one VAT rate, on the simplification of VAT as much as possible, as it could be simplified. Or just think about what to do when it comes to VAT lexicon to translate this VAT so that you don't have to read 400 pages, for example. 14. This is [[♪ The bell ♪]] the direction that the government should take. I wish you that. I hope that you will come to this one day, because for now I see that unfortunately there are additional rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u346	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A brief and meaningful question, Minister. Are you planning to develop a fully legal definition of a readable signature in the near future, and will there also be a clear interpretation of this term in the near future? This is, I think, very important on the occasion of how we are talking about a legal act, so that those who apply these rules, and whose activities often depend on their proper application, explain this in a clear and transparent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u348	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the duty of every government, but also the duty of the Sejm to support entrepreneurs. It is about creating a law that will be long-term and understandable for all. We need to come to the conclusion that entrepreneurs will actually deal with business rather than the analysis of legislation. Two more elements are needed for this. Firstly, various simplifications. The simpler the legislation, the clearer the taxes, the more we encourage people to start their business, the more money we have in the budget, the smaller the gray area will be. And one last thing. That's what I talk about a lot. I'll say it again. Ladies and gentlemen, atmosphere. There must be an atmosphere of trust and confidence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is an atmosphere that will encourage young people, but not just young people, to take up economic activity at their own risk. I think we all really need that today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u350	On this, the list of Members of the task of the question was exhausted. Now I ask Mr Jan Sarnowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u351	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank Members for their very warm reception of this project. This is the first of a series of projects aimed at introducing VAT simplifications into the Polish tax system. Together with the IT of the tax administration, together with the provision of further services to taxpayers, many tedious and time-consuming obligations become unnecessary and we want further projects to emerge in the six-month amplitude, bearing some of these restrictions and obstacles. To answer the questions raised, first of all, as regards the obligation to have an invoice - now, in order to correct the invoice after sending the invoice, as an entrepreneur, I have to wait for the receipt of the invoice, and it costs time. This also shifts the moment when I can make this correction. This is particularly tedious, given the fact that between entrepreneurs very often this turnover is very intense, there may be even thousands of invoices per month. In case of some mistake, the need for correction is also a long waiting time and just another formality that needs to be implemented. Now the proposal is that, like me as an entrepreneur, I will once make an agreement with my contractor on how to correct it so that it always works. We're not talking about any more vague documentation, we're talking about some freedom, flexibility. It is not for us in any way to punish entrepreneurs or to look for reasons why an invoice should not be taken into account, but to leave them the widest possible catalogue of possibilities to carry out the correction. And as it is in a flexible way written in the text of the Act, so in the explanations that will be issued to it, it will still be confirmed with protective power for the taxpayer and binding for the administration that it is the taxpayer who decides how he will date his counterparty, so that it will simply be understandable and safe for both parties. As regards the method of fixing the exchange rates, it is a request that has been made by the National Tax Administration when simplifying, or the possibility of changing the way in which currency differences are determined from the VAT method to the one characteristic of income taxes, it is important that the payers also do not attempt to manipulate exchange rates, e.g. by repeatedly changing this method over a year, which is time-consuming on the one hand, and on the other hand is difficult to observe by the administration. Also as a result, through the benefits generated in this way, such entrepreneurs will become more competitive towards their competitors, those who focus on their activities rather than on changes in the way they settle exchange rate differences. Hence the introduction of this minimum period for staying in this system, which was chosen by entrepreneurs. I would very much like to highlight one thing here. It came out of my mouth, if I remember correctly, Mr Bosak. Namely, one time I meet with the thesis that the transformation of the company, the change of the legal form involved the loss of support from the PFR. Ladies and gentlemen! Here I would like to emphasise this very strongly once again. This has been communicated by the Ministry of Finance. The right message, the information is on our website. In the case of conversion, if there is universal succession and continuation of business activity, there are no negative effects and the subsidy agreement concluded with PFR remains in force. There's no danger here. To answer the last question: we do not plan to introduce a definition of a legal legible signature. A clear signature is intuitive. Here language interpretation can be used calmly. It's just a signature that can be read. Thank you. [[Applause]] Correct, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u352	Thank you very much, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, just one sentence of correction. Well, I wasn't talking about big corporations that make deals, big companies, where there are thousands of invoices. I was talking about these small companies, medium-sized companies, where the invoices are in some way incidental due to one counterparty. And for these companies, it's not gonna be a simplification. They're gonna have to have some documentation. However, on the way to the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, I strongly urge you to examine the situation of small and medium-sized companies, not corporations. Because corporations are gonna be okay, one way or the other. But these small and medium-sized companies get more jobs to do. It's not like they can be burdened like this. I really encourage a certain resummation of this thinking here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u354	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 59 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Governmental bill amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw (prints no. 678 and 756). I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, print no. 678. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the High Committee for First Reading on 16 October 2020. The purpose of this law, which is short and concise in substance, is to introduce in the Act of 16 March 2000 on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw a special solution which modifies in particular the principles of financing this university from funding to higher education and science and, as a result, to ensure its stable financing and possibly undistorted functioning in the higher education system and to adapt the nomenclature to the applicable rules. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth after considering the draft law at its meeting on 20 November 2020, after taking into account one symbolic but important amendment, which is worth highlighting, adopted unanimously, unanimously, in the case of the amendment as well as this draft law... The committee therefore asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u356	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, prints no. 678 and 756. The aim of the proposed amendment is to modify the funding rules of the university guaranteeing its stable activities. The Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw is the only university in the country that educates theological staff for the needs of minority Christian churches operating in Poland. The Academy conducts studies in the following fields: theology, pedagogy, social work, and since last year in the academic field: pre-school and early-school pedagogy. In the academic year 2018, the Academy studied 343 students and as of 31 December 2018, a total of 37.2 academic staff were employed at the Academy. In 2020, the amount of grants to the academy for the maintenance and development of teaching potential and for the maintenance and development of research capacity amounted to 8297 thousand. PLN and the amount of the subjective grant amounted to 750 thousand. zł. The Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, through its unique educational activity, has fewer opportunities compared to other universities in terms of obtaining good parameters included in the allocation algorithms for public universities. It should therefore be concluded that in order for the Christian Theological Academy to function properly, it is necessary to introduce detailed solutions related to its financing. The aim is to introduce a provision guaranteeing the academy to receive subsidies from funding for higher education and education of not less than the amount fixed for the previous year. Thus, if, as a result of the evaluation of the quality of scientific activities on the basis of which an algorithm is calculated different for academic institutions and another for professional universities, the subsidy would be lower than in the previous year, it will automatically be increased by means of State funds, from Part 28: Higher education and science, at the disposal of the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. The Act also proposes to maintain the subjective grant granted to the Academy by the Minister responsible for religious faiths and national and ethnic minorities while defining the scope of this grant. The Minister will provide grants to finance the remuneration of academic teachers working in the theology department together with income from these salaries. The Act proposes to adapt the nomenclature in accordance with the applicable Higher Education Act. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, taking the above into account, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u358	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, print no. 678. The revision is limited in scope. It addresses three issues, but each of them is very important for the stabilisation, functioning and financing of universities in the higher education system. The first amendment is the proposed terminology adjustment for the status of the academy. Currently Art. 1 paragraph 1 of the Act of 16 March 2000 defines the academy as a state university, whereas according to the regulations of the current Law on Higher Education, the university should be classified as a public university. This is a slight change, but very important for the status of this university. The two subsequent amendments concern Article. 3a. It is proposed to change the funding rules of the university or perhaps to clarify this issue because of its particular nature, as stressed by the previous speaker and the applicant and what is the clue of the matter, its essence properly. This particular character is based on education, as has already been mentioned, of clergy and lay staff for the needs of minority Christian churches of the Republic of Poland, including those of the Polish Ecumenical Council. Under the Law on Higher Education, the academy receives a grant from the funds for higher education and science for the ongoing maintenance and development of teaching and research potential. However, due to the education and research carried out in different religious traditions, CHATs bear significantly higher costs - it can be said that both research and education are very costly - than expected for each classical university, so to speak, and not of such a specific profile. The second argument, which is not possible, seems to be ignored, is that the specific nature is also a cause of difficulty, and this should actually be understood in maintaining a high and constant value of parameters affecting the amount of subsidies. However, it should be added that despite these difficulties, CHAT offers a high quality of education and confirmed research - this is not a saying statement - and teaching, didactics, as confirmed by accreditation committees and decisions on scientific powers. Both departments of CHAT, both pedagogical and theological, have the authority to give degrees. This is a recommendation of the surest and best. Presented rations allow... It is reasonable to note that the Academy receives a subsidy from financial resources in accordance with the Law on Higher Education and Science of not less than the amount fixed for the previous year on the basis of the allocation algorithm of the funds in question. Another change, the last one, concerns the obligation to grant an individual grant. The problem is that this money can be granted, but so far there has been no clear legal basis to grant it, and it has happened that the Minister could not admit it because the possibility of granting such a grant was contested. According to the wording that is proposed, we propose that the Minister may not grant such a grant, but merely fix and grant such a grant. It will be an ordering and unambiguous provision of such a grant while not giving a sum, so this grant may be as possible at a given time and budgetary situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, let me finish. Of course. Thank you very much. It is also said that in the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union, the principles of funding religious universities are similar. Let me give you just one example: in Austria, the state covers the costs of the functioning of Catholic and Protestant theological departments in state universities. Finally, let us remind you that the Christian Theological Academy has a university pedigree because it originates from the Faculty of Evangelical Theology of the University of Warsaw. To conclude, as Mr Czykwin asked, I would like to express my thanks to the Orthodox community for adopting this law and I believe that it has also been voted out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u360	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Mr Bogusław Wontor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, print no. 678 and 756. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this bill is to introduce a special solution modifying the principles of financing the Christian Theological Academy from the budgetary resources for higher education and science and to clarify the provisions of this law by indicating that the Minister responsible for religious beliefs and national and ethnic minorities grants the academy of grants. High Seym! The proposed changes are intended to ensure stable funding and enable the Christian Theological Academy to operate smoothly in the higher education and science system. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The reasons for this law and the statements at the first reading in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Wojciech Murdzek and the director of the Department of Religions and Minorities of the National and Ethnic Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Andrzej Rudlicki, as well as the rector of the Christian Academy of Theology in Warsaw Jerzy Pańkowski, clearly indicate that the lack of new solutions for financing the Academy will result in its debt and a reduction in the scientific level. As a final result, it will lead to its liquidation. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In view of what I have presented, Members and Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left believe that in Poland a theological education institution is needed for the needs of minority Christian Churches. Therefore, members of the club Left will support the government bill amending the law on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, prints no. 678 and 756. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u363	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw, as is well known, is a respected public university formed from the Faculty of Evangelical Theology of the University of Warsaw. In its activities, the Academy also refers to the tradition of the Orthodox Theology Studies of the University of Warsaw. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce in the Law on the Christian Theological Academy a detailed solution modifying the principle of funding this university from funding to higher education and science, and thus ensuring its stable funding and enabling its smooth functioning in the higher education system. Coalition Club Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives supports this solution and will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u364	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u365	It's a natural thing, Mr. Marshal... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. President, wait a minute. Please keep your conversations quiet. Honourable Members! Dear Marshal, It is natural that Christian religions other than Roman Catholicism have the right to shape their scientific staff, their leaders at university and university level, or the universities involved in training these staff have the right to benefit from public funding. This is a situation that should inspire all of us to reflect that we need to make a statutory change so that it is possible. The whole situation in higher education, in which people with a clear Christian formation referring to legal concepts, to the tradition of Christian humanities are in a minority or are completely marginalized, locked up in certain ghettos of universities, whether Christian or Catholic, expelled from ordinary humanities, is a legacy of communism, let us be clear. This is the legacy of the cleansing that took place after World War II, during the Stalinist period, in which everyone who had the views, as it was then called: reactionary, today the left uses the term: regressive or improbable, everyone with such views was at best fired from work, and in a worse case he parted with life, was sent to some camps. or simply persecuted in other ways in various types of Ubec investigations, in which various fictitious faults were attributed to such persons, in order to eliminate them and push them to the total margin of social life. Thus finished her scientific career a significant part of the scientific staff of pre-war Polish science, enough to mention Professor Felix Koneczny. Unfortunately, this situation has never been reversed in the Third Republic. Higher education was not decommunised. The body raised in obedience to Marxism has fluently jumped into obedience to liberal democracy and is now, unfortunately, a leading, tone-giving scientific staff on various humanities departments. This leads to such a situation that the departments responsible for humanities, for Polish culture, for language - last time we had a language competition and it turned out that the criteria of the current social debate are also in the game and are decisive - all these departments are largely mastered by people with views contrary to fundamental Christian assumptions. Does this mean that these people should not have the right to perform their duties, to include the positions of scientists, academic teachers? Of course, as in any free society and free state, there is a place for them. There is room for people with left-wing views, for people with right-wing views, for people with undefined views who are concerned with their scientific interests. It is natural in a free society where pluralism prevails. This tilt, this ghettoization of scientific staff, academic teachers with Christian views in selected departments, selected universities, and additionally the Petrification of this whole system through the funding system, by preventing real competition - all contradicts what a good academic life should be, a good university life. Let us remind you that the idea of the university crystallized around intellectual masters who gathered groups of students around them. The primary universities were not large bureaucratic bodies, in which countless scientists followed certain written and blind rules with countless students. They were small communities that developed practical thinking skills, practical use of knowledge. At the moment, it can be said that through poorly constructed rules for funding the teaching activities of universities, this original idea of universities was simply killed. Killed in bureaucracy, killed in the process of submission of all kinds of points and, above all, funding rules. Where, then, is the modern right to kill the idea of the university and free thought and free debate and authentic intellectual pluralism? It's in the same place where the modern left. If, of course, we treat the PiS as our right hand, because the PiS likes to introduce itself. Minister Gowin didn't try to change anything about this. Minister Murdzek didn't try to change anything about this. Minister Czarnek is not announcing any changes in this matter. You could say that PiS, Platform, Left could rotate here, exchange staff, and higher education and management rules would look exactly the same. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It ends so that one Christian college doesn't disappear, we have to change the bill. This is absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members joined the questions. If there are no more willing people, I close the list, setting the time for the question - 1 minute. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The priority area of activity of the theological academy is the training of staff for the needs of minority churches. Therefore, it is a good time to ask what the attitude of the Polish state towards religious minorities in Poland is. There are 187 associations and churches in our country. This is data from the 2018 GUS. Among the religious minorities: Orthodox religion, Protestant religion in second place. This confession is declared to be close to 150,000. Poles and Poles. Several dozens of thousands of evangelicals inhabit the historical lands of Silesia Cieszyński in many villages such as Goleszów, Skoczów, Vistula, Ustroń and Cieszyn. That's a lot of 30%. , and sometimes even 50% residents. Therefore, please answer whether and how the Polish state supports religious minorities in Poland, with particular emphasis on religion, Protestant religions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will be obliged to reply in writing as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u368	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Bogusław Wontor, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for the government representative: How much did the Ministry of Interior and Administration plan in 2020, to balance the costs in this academy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Murdzk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the law does not treat this in such a broad way as to discuss the whole attitude of the state towards the churches, these minority, Christian ones, and I think that we will present this to Mr Koperski as a separate reply in writing. Although the spirit of this law shows a friendly attitude, and in the justification we have described, we refer to a number of laws that these relations regulate under the law. On the other hand, when it comes to the involvement of the Minister for Religious Religions and Minorities, i.e. in this case we are currently the Ministry of Home Affairs, the tradition since 2015 has practically shown that there is a very stable level of funding, which is 750,000. I think that this will also be in a similar size in the following years as a complement to this funding due to this particular nature of universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u372	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Skwarek, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would just like to summarize very briefly the work of the committee, the consistent work of the committee. It is good that we work decently and in harmony in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. And I have to say that all the clubs and circles were in favour of this bill. Thank you for being unamended, which will reduce our procession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u374	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the change of the name of the University of Arts in Poznań (prints No. 645 and 681). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I present a report on the government draft law on the change of the name of the University of Arts in Poznań, print no. 645 and 681. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading on 30 September 2020. The proposed bill assumes a change in the name of the University of Arts in Poznań to the University of Arts. Magdalena Abakanowicz in Poznań. It should be noted that the draft law in question stems from the application of the University of Arts in Poznań, which the Senate, by its resolution of 14 October 2019, proposes to change the name of the university. This application was supported by the Marta Magdalena Abakanowicz-Kosmowska and Jan Kosmowski Foundation in Warsaw, which is the heir of the estate and rights of Magdalena Abakanowicz-Kosmowska and Jan Kosmowski. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after first reading and considering the draft law at its meeting on 22 October, unanimously requests that the Sejm adopt the draft of this Act without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u376	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mr Tomasz Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government draft law amending the name of the University of Arts in Poznań, prints no. 645 and 681. The presented bill assumes a change in the name of the University of Arts in Poznań to the University of Arts. Magdalena Abakanowicz in Poznań. Magdalena Abakanowicz was born on June 20, 1930 in Fallenty near Raszyn. After graduating from the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw, she began her great art adventure with painting. Between 1954 and 1959, her work consisted of large canvas sheets painted with watercolors. In 1960, the first individual exhibition of the artist took place in the Cordegard Gallery in Warsaw, and in 1965 she was awarded a gold medal at the biennial in Sao Paulo. In the '60s. Magdalena Abakanowicz began making unusual sculptures for which she used fabrics, giving them three-dimensionality, hanging at the ceiling. These works, which have been called abacans since her name, have brought her international fame and artistic independence. In the '70s. Magdalena Abakanowicz has established her international position with the cycle "Alterations" including the series "Heads," "Back," "Sitting" and "Embriology," which was enthusiastically accepted at the Venice Biennale in 1980. The '80s. The 20th century is a series of works performed in traditional sculpting materials - stone, wood and bronze. During that time, one of the most original exhibitions of the artist was created: War Games, during which she presented wooden logs wrapped in fabrics or atonement with steel rims, which were supposed to resemble war machines. In the same years Magdalena Abakanowicz is carrying out great projects in the open air, among others. in Israel, Germany, the United States and, of course, Poland, where one of the largest projects is located: "Unrecognized" - 112 over 2 metres of cast iron figures in the Poznań Citadel Park performed by Abakanowicz on the occasion of the 750th anniversary of Poznań. The artist presented her works at more than 200 exhibitions on all continents, winning a number of awards and distinctions. She won the competition announced by the Paris authorities. She created the concept of arboreal architecture, i.e. 25-metre tree houses. Magdalena Abakanowicz has been awarded numerous times by the authorities in Poland and abroad. Eight times the title of Dr. Honoris causa has been given. She was an honorary member of the four art academy. Magdalena Abakanowicz was associated with today's University of Arts in Poznań in the years 1965 and 1990, where she has been conducting classes since 1979 as a professor with students. She was also a guest lecturer at universities in the United States, Australia, and Japan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Magdalena Abakanowicz has been awarded numerous times in Poland and abroad, including the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, expressing appreciation for the achievements of the outstanding Polish artist and taking into account the relationships of Magdalena Abakanowicz with the Poznań university, will vote in favour of the adoption of this Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u378	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by President Rafał Grupiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an extraordinary honor on behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform Club to say a few words about changing the name of my university, in which I spent over two decades as a lecturer, including one decade working together with Prof. Magdalena Abakanowicz, who led the tapestry studio with us. This is indeed an unusual situation, because I have a chance to talk about a great, extraordinary art in a place which unfortunately is a temple of democracy, but corrupted by people who trample on the Polish constitution. But I have to talk about an artist who valued extremely creative freedom and who constantly changed techniques in which she created her works, starting with painting through of course sculptures, through fabrics, so-called. abacane. She used all possible materials, from wood, plaster to steel, through of course sisal, through even the horse hair she used, resin, bronze, stone, glass. There was actually no material in which she, Prof. Abakanowicz, would not attempt to create his work, always trying to cross the boundaries which art set, and that was also its size. She was very quickly appreciated all over the world. There's no museum today, no important collection in the world without her work. It is nearly 80 museums and galleries that have her works in their collection. She was also a kind of ambassador for us, and her activity was a gateway to the world, because all the 1980s, when there was no international exchange of students, thanks to the fame of Prof. Abakanowicz, students from all over the world came to our university for an internship in her studio, so we had this extraordinary chance to contact people who also brought news about the latest trends in art. These great figural compositions, which you created Professor Abakanowicz, actually from Chicago, the famous Agora, through the Negev Desert to Hiroshima, are today traces of a certain reflection on the condition of man, his biological limitation, which is extremely important from the point of view, I think, of condition and fate, and the thought of each of us. Prof. Magdalena Abakanowicz was perfectly capable of this problem as if the transients captured us all and in a dramatic and wonderful way artistically realized. As I said, Professor has always changed techniques, changed concepts, constantly, you can say, rushing ahead, looking for new challenges and trying to cross new boundaries. She always said she didn't like it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No rules, no rules. And it's her work. it has always been a window to the world for Polish art, also for our university. That is also in a sense today, because the work of Magdalena Abakanowicz with us is and remains our creative window to a dynamic changing world, although I do not know whether this world, even such a dynamic one, would be able to keep up with Prof. Magdalena Abakanowicz in constant pursuit of the challenges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u380	Thank you very much, beautiful. Ms Joanna Senyszyn and Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan will now speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club fully supports the name given to the Art University in Poznań by Magdalena Abakanowicz. It is the implementation of an initiative of the academic community, which wants to be a patron, or perhaps it should be said: a matron, a wonderful, talented, world-famous artist, and at the same time her teacher, master, professor, because Magdalena Abakanowicz taught at the University of Arts in Poznań until 1990, which is the present Art University. Its monumental sculptures, and above all the famous abacan revolutionized the view of the artistic fabric. For years they have been presented in dozens of the most prestigious galleries and museums of the world. Now the term abacan will also become a distinguishing mark of the Poznań Art University and its 1300 students. Because I'm an old schoolgirl, I can't miss the sports episode in Abakanowicz's life. In the 1940s, as a teenager, she was a medalist of the Polish Championships in relay races several times and started her career at the Baltic Gdynia club. The matronship of this outstanding artist is a distinction for the Poznań university, her students and students, and a reason for pride, and for us to rejoice that art is immortal and true artists do not die at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u382	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u383	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The University of Arts in Poznań, in my hometown, is gaining a matronage today. This is the city where, in the last parliamentary elections, the three largest committees put their women's letters in the first place. It's a precedent never seen before or anywhere else in the country. It's a city where most small entrepreneurs are entrepreneurs, it's a city that has a woman's face. During the time when Prof. Magdalena Abakanowicz includes a matronage over the university celebrating its 101st birthday, on the eve of the 102nd anniversary of Polish women's electoral rights, we still need to remind that women's rights are human rights. We still have to go out on the streets and fight for the same thing, because over 100 years since the election rights and access to higher education in the situation of women in our country have changed little. Inequality, glass ceilings, no parities, violence. The politicized tribunal gives judgment on women, right-wing authority announces the ideology of Polish schools from kindergarten to universities, gives us a cultural, spiritual and intellectual revolution to the Catholic Church. Women have been given a special role in this plan. They're supposed to go back to traditional roles, put up with domestic violence in silence, the burden of babysitting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also those affected by deep disability. It is they who are to limit their professional aspirations for supposedly sacred procreational duties. In such a reality, it is all the more precious and symbolic to give a university the name of a woman. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u384	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Wielkopolska community, it is with great pleasure and honour that I accept the statements presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the name of the University of Arts in Poznań. The bill was prepared at the request of the University of Arts in Poznań, which was the implementation of an initiative undertaken by the academic community of this university, supported by a resolution of its Senate. It assumes giving the University of Arts in Poznań a new name. From 1 January next year, the university will perform under the name of the University of Arts. Magdalena Abakanowicz in Poznań. The name Magdalena Abakanowicz is an expression of appreciation for the achievements of an outstanding artist, while at the same time emphasising her long-term relationship with the Poznań art university - it is stated in the explanatory memorandum. Initiators add that their idea met with the support of the Foundation to them. Marty Magdalena Abakanowicz-Kosmowska and Jan Kosmowski in Warsaw is the heir of the estate and rights of Magdalena Abakanowicz-Kosmowska and Jan Kosmowski. Magdalena Abakanowicz lived between 1930 and 2017. She is an artist with huge, versatile creative achievements of fundamental importance for Polish art. She was one of the most outstanding Polish sculptors of world fame, an artist of artistic fabric. As early as the mid-60s, the world's famed abacans, presented in the world's most prestigious galleries and museums. She had several dozen individual and permanent exhibitions in public space - The Museum of Modern Art in New York, Biennale Venezia, Polish Pavilion Venice and many other such places. The explanatory memorandum of the bill also emphasized the relationship between Magdalena Abakanowicz and Poznań, where for many years - as Mr Grupiński has pointed out precisely, 1965 In 1979, she received the title of professor. She also conducted classes at universities abroad, among others. California, the United States, Canada, Australia. She had a doctorate awarded to honoris causa many universities, among others. Royal College of Art in London, Pratt Institute in New York and Poznań art university. The Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland will be with full conviction, approval and recognition for the person Mrs Abakanowicz voted in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u386	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. Me first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to say that, as a conservative, I think that women should do a lot of things: art, for example. fabrics, and teaching children and young people. Sleep. Magdalena Abakanowicz did just that. Welcome to this initiative. Thank you. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u388	Thank you very much. And now, Mr Tuduj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The academic community of the University of Arts in Poznań proposes to change the name of the university by giving its patronage to Magdalena Abakanowicz. This postulate was confirmed and supported by a resolution of the Senate of this university. The current name of the university was given by law and only in the same way can the name be changed to: University of Arts im. Magdalena Abakanowicz in Poznań. The artist was a lecturer of the university for a quarter of a century, and Professor Abakanowicz obtained the title of professor. The proposal is an expression of great appreciation for her achievements, her artistic achievements, as well as her relationships with this Poznań university. Professor Magdalena Abakanowicz also taught abroad: California, Canada, Australia. She received a doctorate in honoris causa of many universities, among others. London, New York. It has also been awarded numerous times in Poland and abroad, among others. in 1998 the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. When she was young, when she fell here, she was a athlete. She was also successful in this situation, but she made Poland the most famous as an artist. She was one of the most outstanding Polish sculptors, a creator of a new technique of artistic fabric called abacanami from her name. Exhibitions of the works of Prof. Magdalena Abakanowicz were organized many times in Poland and abroad. Her works constantly arouse interest in art collectors, they reach high prices in the art markets. The application for her name to the University of Arts in Poznań was also supported by the Foundation im. Marty Magdalena Abakanowicz-Kosmowska and Jan Kosmowski, heir to the estate and rights of Magdalena Abakanowicz-Kosmowska and Jan Kosmowski. We agree with this conclusion, wishing that the work of Professor Magdalena Abakanowicz inspires generations of Polish artists. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u390	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u391	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a great honor to stand here as a graduate of the Art University in Poznań. With great pride, I am pleased that today we have the honour of admitting this university - whether we decide to award this university - patronage, title, name Magdalena Abakanowicz, who was an extraordinary, outstanding, sensitive artist, sculptor, who showed her all her years of work, how sculpture can be a universal and timeless brilliant field of art, what the people know perfectly well, knowing her abacana standing at the Poznań Citadel. However, at this point I would also like to ask a question, because unfortunately from the University of Arts at this moment there are quite disturbing signals coming from [[♪ The bell ♪]] about exemptions and actions with the characteristics of mobbing. Last word. I wanted to ask you if the Ministry is aware of these situations, and it provides for some action. We will not have outstanding artists and artists such as Magdalena Abakanowicz without stable employment in universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u392	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the greatest satisfaction and pleasure I listen to these speeches. Because it's a joy to know that this big college is gonna have such a big patronage. But is that enough? It is known that giving a patronage is an expression of appreciation and distinction for the university. Especially with this honor, I'd like to take care of it. Well, we're about to talk about their academy. Krzysztof Penderecki. I would like to ask if, following such a distinction, there is a kind of thinking that this great master, who is a patron, can try to develop as far as possible the artistic minds of students in a given university. For this to happen, not only for a given university to have the name of a great patron, but also for a certain organization, there is a need for inspiration from the Ministry. At the moment, I am addressing the representatives of the Ministry: Do you think that, following such a distinction, a certain specification of these universities in some artistic direction, there is also the possibility that this artistic thought of a great creator should be fully inculcated and that students should be able to use it in the maximum possible way? For this, there is no doubt that financial support is needed, and that is actually what I am asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u394	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question. Is the Ministry of Education and Science aware of the situation that occurred at the University of Arts in Poznań? According to the media, this is probably the only university in the country that releases its own employees during the pandemic and because of the pandemic. He's doing the right thing. This justifies a decrease in income due to fewer or actually lack of foreign students who pay for their studies or, unfortunately, less cooperation with entrepreneurs due to pandemics in the Business Plus cooperation project. Does the Ministry have that knowledge, and what does it intend to do in this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Well, that's a good thing about college.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u396	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Wontor, Left, will now ask the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u397	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for government representatives: Have other candidates been taken into account when choosing the patron of this university? Did the greatness of the artist overshadow it enough that there was no need to discuss it? Second question: Is the Ministry planning to increase the grant to this university in view of the financial difficulties of this university? If so, how high? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u398	Thank you. I now ask Mrs Joanna Senyshin to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a mystery that universities always have financial problems - and entire universities, and individual departments. Now, during the pandemic period, the situation has become much worse. Of course, there must be system solutions for all universities, but I am interested in whether, in connection with such honoring of the University of Arts in Poznań and following the new name, there will also be additional measures, especially since, as we hear, this is one of the worst performing universities, which has applied collective redundancies to employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u400	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I now ask Mrs Wanda Zwinogrodzka, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u401	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to address the individual questions in order, first of all, the question by Mr Sterczewski. Yes, we received information about redundancies at the University of Arts in Poznań. This issue is not exactly in the field of today's discussion, but I would like to remind you that universities have autonomy guaranteed by the Law on Higher Education and Science, and these are activities that are entirely the responsibility of universities, provided, of course, they remain legal. Yes, because of the concern that this has aroused among the public or employees themselves, we are going to look at this issue and, of course, we will try to prevent it if we observe any irregularities. On the other hand, the process itself, if it is lawful, is not subject to intervention by the Ministry. We don't even have tools for that. Thank you. I must say, too, in replying now to Mrs Fabisiak, that I do not really understand the question, because... I go back to the fact that universities are autonomous and the ministry cannot, as it seems, assign them any tasks, all the same, scientific or pedagogical or educational, except those which result simply from the law and from the norms of the university itself. So what should it be like to nurture tradition, because I understand that this is what you are talking about, nurturing the artistic thought of this patron or in this case of patronage, it is probably best to decide the people who carry out this educational activity, and often also to cooperate densely with this person. On the other hand, with regard to the financial aspect of this issue, as with the other financial issues raised here, well, I can say that it is not so that there are drastic changes. This university, like all others, received funds of the same amount or due to an algorithm related to the level at which they had them before. This university has also received additional investment funds and at the moment we do not record, we do not foresee the possibility whether we see any sudden need to change this, but if it turns out that indeed for some reason This is where the pandemic has particularly affected the condition of the university, and this ministry is always ready to support, as each of its universities, as far as possible. It's just that art schools are kind of... It is difficult to say that they are particularly affected by pandemics against the background of all higher education. On the other hand, I will answer one more question as to whether there have been other candidates. No, it was not, because - as you have been raised here by the votes of your Members - this is an initiative of the university itself supported by a resolution of the Senate and we have taken this initiative according to our will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Academic community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u402	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, but also in the clarification of Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u403	Mr. Marshal! I think this correction is necessary and very important, because the matter of art schools is a matter known from history, and today I would like to say... I'm sure you know about the schools of the great architect Gaudi. I don't think it's worth it and shouldn't destroy the autonomy of the university to the slightest extent, but inspiration is fantastic and that's what I asked. The artist leaves us his works, while his workshop can be cultivated, cultivated or forgotten. Nursing and cultivating is the creation of a school, and in the university the creation of a studio. I don't want to call it that. I don't want to be more specific. I'm just offering you a solution that's worth it. We have great artists and from us [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whether their successors will be there, whether we give them this great workshop or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u404	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 60 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the change of the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow (prints Nos 722 and 757). I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. May I ask Members to move the discussion outside the Parliamentary Chamber? Thank you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we have the right of series as it is about giving universities the names of outstanding artists. I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on changing the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow from print No. 722. On 29 October 2020, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the High Committee for First Reading. The government bill to change the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow aims to name Krzysztof Penderecki's academy and therefore to change the name of the university to: The Academy of Music. Krzysztof Penderecki in Kraków. The bill was prepared at the request of the Academy of Music in Krakow, which was the implementation of an initiative undertaken by the academic community of this university, supported by a resolution of the university senate, with the approval of the honored wife and family. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth following first reading and consideration of this project, which, among other things, was heard. the representative of the government in the person of the Minister, the position in principle appropriate to the applicant, Mr. Rector of the Wojciech Widlak Academy of Music, brings: The High Sejm will adopt draft law from print No. 722 without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u406	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government draft law on changing the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow, prints no. 722 and 757. The presented bill assumes a change in the name of the university: Academy of Music in Cracow to: Academy of Music in Cracow. Krzysztof Penderecki in Kraków. Krzysztof Penderecki, born on 23 November 1933 in Dębica, died on 29 March 2020 in Cracow, was one of the largest Polish composers, he was an outstanding conductor and educator. Krzysztof Penderecki has been associated with the Academy of Music in Krakow all his adult life. The beginnings of this Krakow university date back to 1888, when the Conservatory of Music was established, which after the end of World War II resumed its activity as the State Conservatory of Krakow. In 1946 the State Higher School of Music was established, which in 1979 was named: Academy of Music in Cracow. Krzysztof Penderecki studied composition at the State Higher School of Music in 1955. After finishing his studies, he started working as a composer at the university. Between 1972 and 1987 he served as the rector. For the rest of his life, he worked with the Academy of Music, ran the orchestra of the university on several occasions, gave patronage to the most important projects - international competitions, supported the Academy in many organisational and artistic matters. The idea of giving the Academy of Music the name of Krzysztof Penderecki was born in the Chair of Composition and finally formulated by the Senate of the Academy by a resolution of 22 June 2020. This application was accepted by the composer's wife Elizabeth Penderecka and other members of his family. Krzysztof Penderecki's great achievements include operas, symphonies, orchestral, chamber, instrumental or choir frames of religious texts. He created a new direction in contemporary music called sonorism. Krzysztof Penderecki's compositions have been repeatedly used by renowned film directors. Among the many works of Krzysztof Penderecki are Tren - Victims of Hiroshima, Passion according to St. Łukasz, symphony or Polish Requiem. Krzysztof Penderecki received many significant and prestigious awards for his work around the world, including among others. Four Grammy Awards. He received the title of doctor honoris causa at 30 universities. He was awarded many times, including the Order of the White Eagle - the highest Polish State Award. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, expressing its appreciation for the achievements of an outstanding artist and taking into account the relationship between Krzysztof Penderecki and the Krakow University, will vote in favour of the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u408	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Alexander Mishalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the position of the Civic Coalition club in relation to the draft law amending the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow, according to which it was the project since 1 January 2021. The Academy of Music in Krakow will be named Krzysztof Penderecki. The bill aims to honor our outstanding composer and musician, who died on 29 March this year. As you all know, of course, he was an outstanding composer, conductor, music teacher, also a representative of the Polish school of composers of the 1960s and, in this context, an extremely important professor and rector of the Academy of Music in Cracow. In his composition he has four operas, eight symphonies and a number of other orchestral works, instrumental concerts, choir frames mainly of religious texts, but also chamber and instrumental works. His music, which not all of us know about, has also often been used by filmmakers. Penderecki's works were found in such popular films as the Exorcist William Friedkina, Stanley Kubrick's Shining, David Lynch's heartbeat, Andrzej Wajda's Katyn or Martin Scorsese's Mystery Island. For his music he received a number of prestigious awards, among others. twice Prix Italia, four times Grammy, a number of titles of Honoris Causa university from around the world. It is also worth noting that in 1972 and 1987 he was the only rector of the State Higher School of Music at that time - today the Academy of Music - unrelated to PZPR these days. Krzysztof Penderecki conducted the Academy of Music in Krakow and the composition cathedral itself for very difficult years of end-of-life communism, while maintaining the considerable autonomy of the university, while opening it to the environment from the outside. He has also started international cooperation, which continues until now and is an undoubted asset of the university. As a teacher, he also attracted many talented, outstanding candidates for study from Poland and abroad. It was in his day that the State Higher School of Music was renamed Academy of Music. The professor was associated for the rest of his life with the Academy in Krakow, giving personal patronage to many competitions, artistic projects. The bill, as has already been said, was prepared at the request of the Academy of Music in Krakow. It is the implementation of an initiative undertaken by the academic community. He was supported by the senate's resolution and the signature of the rector. The Civic Coalition will, of course, support this project, given the achievements and all these circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u410	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Bogusław Wontor will present his position.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on changing the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow, prints no. 722 and 757. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this bill is to name Krzysztof Penderecki's academy and therefore to change the name of the university to: the Academy of Music. Krzysztof Penderecki in Kraków. High Seym! The bill is a government project, but it was created at the request of the Academy of Music in Krakow, which was preceded by an initiative of the academic community of this university. It was also adopted on this subject by the Senate of the Academy. It can be added that this initiative was supported by the composer's family with his wife at the head. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The academic community of the Academy of Music in Krakow strongly emphasized that giving the name of Krzysztof Penderecki their academy was not only an expression of appreciation for the achievements of an outstanding artist, but above all an emphasis on his long-term relationship with the Krakow music college. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In view of what I have presented, Members and Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left will support the government's bill to change the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow, prints Nos 722 and 757. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u412	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor and pleasure to represent the Polish Coalition club, recommending that our Members vote in favour of this government law. An honor and pleasure because we are dealing with a unique artist, and a pleasure because I knew Professor Penderecki personally and I was a guest at his house. Krzysztof Penderecki studied composition at the State Higher School of Music in Cracow, the current Academy of Music, and as it was said, he later became her professor and rector, so he was associated with this university throughout his adult life. He lived his whole life in Cracow and then also in court in Lusławice, where he opened the European Music Centre and the International Music Academy for young, talented musicians from various countries of the world. They came there to perfect their skills under the watch of world champions. Penderecki also created a magnificent arboretum there, planting thousands of trees and shrubs from all over the world. It was his passion, his passion, his hobbies, and it looks fantastic. In Lusławice court, notabene lived and created before the war Jacek Malczewski, who organized a painting school there for talented peasant children. Krzysztof Penderecki was one of the best composers in the second half of the 20th century in the world. He was incredibly creative and original. It was already mentioned about the music he composed and that his music was used in films by outstanding world directors. But also together with his wife, Elizabeth Penderecka, the CEO of the Ludwig van Beethoven Festival, he brought to Poland the best musicians of the world who were ready to give up half the fee so that they could play with the maestro publicly in Poland. He had Armenian and German ancestors. He considered himself a European musician whose works were rooted in Johann Sebastian Bach's music, and, as he claimed, Beethoven's works changed his entire musical life. Penderecki's style has evolved for decades, but his music has never ceased to be special. Penderecki created electronic music in the 1960s. In the 20th century, he studied her potential, returned to classical music and achieved the same with the orchestra. He used traditional instruments in a non-standard way and was always original. A great teacher, a man of great heart, a phenomenal musician who did not divide music into classical and popular, but into good and bad. In the last decade of his life he joined the famous rock band Radiohead Jonny Greenwood, whom he considered to be one of the best English contemporary musicians. He once said, and I quote, "I'm very close to the way Radiohead writes his songs." Their style is unique. Notabene Penderecki and Radiohead recorded the album together, and their stage performances in Wrocław and London were awarded standing ovation. Krzysztof Penderecki's works did not grow old, and he remained a young spirit to the end. The Academy of Music in Krakow can be proud to bear his name. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland votes in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u414	Thank you very much, sir. It is a pity that there are so few people willing to ask questions on such wonderful subjects. Here the list is closed to one Mr. Mr Krzysztof... Mr. Marshal, what do you want me to ask you? It's all clear. But this is an opportunity to say more beautiful things. You all talk so wonderfully about patrons that it's really worth taking advantage of. Since one Member has come forward, I do not set the time for the question. You may ask the Member As long as he wants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u415	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've had the pleasure of meeting Master Penderecki too. She was an extraordinary person. First - smart, second - warm, third - talented. I'd like to start by congratulating you. Congratulations to the Academy of Music in Krakow for a beautiful choice of patron. It was a special person, on the one hand a professor, on the other hand a rector, but above all a great composer, a great master and a great teacher. He was rewarded all over the world. He was an extremely beautiful ambassador of our country in Europe and in the world. His name was recognized in all circles, not just in music circles. Why did I start today by congratulating you? This is an extremely important thing about today's universities to educate our students in all areas of life. To be citizens of Europe and the world, so that they can understand this world, so that they can predict what will happen, so that they can be economically strong, so that they can know the culture of other countries, so that they can be open, tolerant, but also socially sensitive. Culture eases customs. Culture teaches us humility, culture teaches us distance, culture teaches us respect for another person. By choosing such an outstanding patron, the university shows that it cares about its teachers, about people who are connected to it. Once again, I congratulate you on this beautiful choice and I am glad that Krzysztof Penderecki also brought us together. Representatives of all clubs speak with one voice, and it doesn't happen very often in the Seym. Thank you very much, Marshal, for a long time to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u416	It was with great pleasure that we listened to your statement. We now ask Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u417	It may not be a question, but I'll share some memories with the High House and with the marshal. As a choirist at the University of Szczecin, I sang Penderecki's songs. It wasn't easy. Please. Maybe you should try it. It's been a long time, not that voice. We'll help. Then, when I was a journalist at the Szczecin branch of Polish Television, I had the pleasure to meet Maestro Penderecki during his concert, which was held in a very unusual place - not in any concert hall, but in Peenemünde on the Island of Uznam, where V1 and V2 bombs were created. Everywhere the maestro was, there were crowds of his lovers and crowds of journalists from all over the world. Everyone was curious about his work and his life. When we were laying the foundation stone under the Szczecin Philharmonic, which is a beautiful architectural object - it is the title of the most beautiful building in Europe - Krzysztof Penderecki's wife arrived and laid the foundation stone on his behalf. So I envy the Krakow Academy that it can bear the name of Penderecki. I hope it inspires students in the composer's department and all the other departments. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u418	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Wanda Zwinogrodzka, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u419	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To tell you the truth, the questions weren't actually asked. So I just wanted to take this opportunity to express my respect for the High House and thank her for taking such a great deal of attention to this initiative, as did the previous one, and that there were so many customs words and observations about the importance of Krzysztof Penderecki's unrelenting memory. I bow particularly deeply here to Mr Bartoszewski, it was very moving. It remains for me to express my joy that this tragic departure, however, is not, as you can see after this discussion, the final departure. The memory of this great artist continues and I am sure it will continue among us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u420	Thank you very much, Minister. Once again, I would like to thank you for this wonderful discussion about Krzysztof Penderecki, who was also a representative of the Armenian community, who contributed enormously to the development of our culture. After all, he was not the only representative of this community. After all, we know that Zbigniew Herbert, Teodor Axentowicz and many other wonderful representatives of Polish culture also belonged to it. The discussion is closed. I would now like to proceed to the next point, but before that we will announce that we will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May (prints No 381 and 629). I ask Mr Tadeusz Zieliński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u421	Tomasz Zieliński, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present a report on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May, prints No 381 and 629. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 and paragraph 2. On 20 May 2020, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, paragraph 1 of its Rules of Procedure sent a draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The draft resolution submitted is, as it were, a response to the decision of the Lithuanian Sejm, which on 12 May this year. unanimously adopted a resolution on this matter. The Lithuanian Sejm asked the Polish Sejm to adopt a similar resolution so that next year it would be possible to celebrate the anniversary of the Constitution in Poland and Lithuania on 3 May. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering the draft resolution at its meeting on 23 September, unanimously requests the Sejm to adopt a draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u422	Thank you very much to Mr Tomasz Zieliński. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u423	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May, prints No 381 and 629. On 3 May 1791, the Grand Sejm, chaired by Marshal Stanisław Małachowski, adopted the first in Europe and the second in the world modern basic law. The Constitution of May 3 was the result of the work of the most outstanding representatives of Polish enlightenment, and its main task was to repair the ossified system of the Republic of Poland of both Nards based on the so-called. golden noble freedom preventing the proper functioning of the state. At that time, members of the patriotic biases led by Ignacy Potocki, supported by King Stanisław August Poniatowski, knew that reforms were necessary to strengthen the executive power and to create a strong army guaranteeing independence from Russia and promising to regain the land lost during the first cut. The Constitution's provisions on 3 May introduced the Montesque threefold division of power into the legislative power: the two-room parliament, the executive: the king and the guardian of laws, and the judiciary. Free selection was eliminated, introducing heredity of the throne. Liberum veto has been removed. The poor nobleman's influence on state policy has been limited, the laws of the townsfolk have been increased and the first step has been taken towards protection by the country of peasants. On 20 October 1791, the Sejm adopted the Mutual Engagement of the two Nations, which was an implementing act for the Constitution and included closer links between Poland and Lithuania going beyond the Lublin Union. Acting only 14 months, the Constitution on 3 May was permanently registered in the history of Poland and Lithuania as an attempt to repair the state. It is associated with the pursuit of the enlightened layers of society to gain independence from the influence of foreign powers. Over the years of the Constitutional partitions on 3 May, the Polish-Russian war in defence of the Constitution and the Kościuszko insure were events for many Poles who determined their attitude against the assassins. May 12th this year The Sejm of the Republic of Lithuania unanimously established the year 2021 as the Year of Constitution 3 May and the Engagement of the Mutual Both Nations, asking the Polish Sejm to adopt a similar resolution. Therefore, taking into account the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution in 2021, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption by the Sejm of a resolution establishing the year 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u424	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club welcomes the draft resolution of the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2021 Year of Constitution 3 May on the 230th anniversary of its adoption for two reasons. First of all, the Act of the Four Year Sejm is without a doubt a great achievement of the Polish constitutional thought. Secondly, we welcome every expression of recognition for the Constitutional Camp, even if it is a historical constitution and recognition - only declarative. However, as the authors of the project encourage reflection on the heritage of the Constitution on 3 May, I would like to reflect on a number of issues in this context. The first sentence of chapter V, entitled: The government, or designation of public authorities, is: All the power of the human community begins with the will of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, by the will of the nation, let me add, also ends. The nation has been expressing its will in this respect for several weeks on the streets of Poland. It is expressed very strongly, even strongly, but the government does not listen to this voice. More, the Deputy Prime Minister calls this voice the voice of criminals, even plans to take this voice away from the nation with police batons. I therefore ask: How does the government accept the constitution granting the primacy of the nation's will with total lack of respect for this will in practice? [[Applause]] And another quote from the same chapter: The three governments of the Polish people should submit and, by the will of the law of this country, they will always submit. This is legislative power, executive power and judicial authority. This Montesque principle of three divisions of power - and here the great merit of the creators of the Constitution on 3 May - was an undisputed foundation of the legal order of the Republic of Poland until recently, when the ruling party de facto destroyed the independence and independence of the courts. Thus, she de facto abolished the constitution. For the constitution deserves to be declared authentic only if it can be enforced by a citizen before a common court. Therefore, without the independence of the judiciary, the constitution remains a fiction, as is the case in Poland today. The government breaks the constitution every step of the way, whenever it's comfortable, and it does so with the support of a tribunal called ridiculously constitutional. It does not introduce a state of emergency, although it introduces restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms only in an emergency state. He doesn't publish the court's laws and judgments when they're not in his favor. It amends the codes in violation of the legislative principles described in the Constitution. In this context, the question arises for some rhetorical ones: Whose legacy really does the government continue with these actions? The creators of the Constitution on May 3rd or (The bell) of the Tarkowic confederation against it? Therefore, my reflection on this is this, and I will say this as a democrat, a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland and a historian, even though I am ashamed of the fact that this must be said here: the respect and observance of the Constitution in force are more important than the worship of the historical constitution. Do you hear me? Compliance with the Constitution in force. The coalition club will support the draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u426	Thank you very much. I would like to present the position of the Left parliamentary club by Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution on 3 May on the date of its adoption was an attempt to save Polish statehood. However, it fell under the blows of invaders invited by Polish politicians and clergymen who opposed reforms. They opposed the new constitution because they were motivated by their own particular interests, their willingness to defend privileges and a weak, inefficient state. The opponents of the Constitution lacked thought about common good, the right state, about the Republic of Poland. At a time when our country was wiped out of the map, the Constitution on 3 May was a symbol of hope, hope for the rebirth of a more just, modern and above all free Poland. The celebrations of the anniversary of her appointment were forbidden in all partitions, but she was always remembered on the left. Therefore, the parliamentary club of the Left supports the resolution establishing the year 2021 as the Year of Constitution 3 May. On this occasion, it is important that we do not turn this symbol only into a cliché about the first in Europe and the second in the world fundamental law. The Constitution of May 3 did not protect us from losing the state. In the presence of less than half of the number of Members at that time, he did not receive political support, even though he was an important and necessary step towards a modern state. Under the yoke of the conquerors, it was only a symbol of the hope of freedom. But let us not forget that freedom is a slave's dream. That's not enough today. We're free people in a free country today. And what do you do with our freedom? You pass your rights at night, at a rate that doesn't allow you to read their contents. You're using parliamentary fortels not to lead to an open debate. You use tribunals to impose laws on a nation that it does not support and accepts. You surround Parliament with barriers and uniforms to protect yourself from the people whose voices brought you here. On 3 May, the Constitution fulfilled its role as a symbol of the hope of freedom. Today let it also be a lesson of parliamentarians and a reason for reflection on our law, because the quality and strength of our country will not determine the content of the rules, but the content of everyday life of people who must support and believe their rights. Otherwise we will always dream of a powerful Poland, and the real one will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna fall apart in our hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u428	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mrs Bożena Ironowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u429	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland presents its position on the establishment of 2021 as the Year of Constitution 3 May. The Constitution of May 3 is undoubtedly one of the most important symbols of Polish independence. They were aware of this at the first time after the freedom of the Legislative Sejm, establishing the anniversary of its adoption as a public holiday, they had MEPs at the Sejm in 1990, restoring this celebration. Its importance was recognised by the European Commission in 2015, distinguishing it with the European Heritage Label. However, the Government Act It's not just a symbol. It is a document that is a valuable historical source, an important legal text, as well as an event so crucial that the whole of Europe called it a revolution at one time. But before it became a revolution, the destruction began, which began almost immediately after the opening of the Grand Sejm. In a changed international situation against the Prussian declaration of friendship, Russian awkwardness and a certain weakening of Russia's interest in the war against Turkey since August 1787, there have been attacks against the Russian guarantee and the advice that continues. The next stage is discussion. You could call it a little upper-floor mind revolution. The heated disputes continued in the Sejm and beyond for two years. The country has flooded not hundreds, but thousands of letters proposing changes in the system. They dealt with every issue: from the smallest on local administrative matters to the basic issues of the system. There have been discussions about the economic, social and situation of peasants, the powers of the townspeople, the place of the Church in the state, and, finally, the future and shape of the government. The debate and dispute period lasted for a long time. Too long. However, from an internal point of view, a great national debate was needed and perhaps necessary. It can be said that the ground for change was prepared in the entire noble society, although concrete actions of politicians, especially Stanisław August and Ignacy Potocki, contributed to their implementation. Despite an acute conflict between the two politicians, despite a different concept of foreign policy, they were able to work together in December 1790 on a royal draft constitution. This government revolution took place on 3 May 1791. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government law prepared outside the Sejm and without its knowledge was put under discussion by the Seymous States. But if it was a revolution, it was a revolution within the limits of the law, or at least within the limits of decency. On behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives, I declare that we will vote in favour of the resolution establishing 2021 as the Year of Constitution 3 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u430	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke made it to the last minute. He certainly has something interesting to say about a resolution on the Constitution on May 3rd.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u431	Mr. Marshal! I am a great enthusiast of the truth, because as you know, the truth will set us free, and as far as the truth is concerned, we must tell about how the Constitution was founded on 3 May. On 3 May, contrary to appearances, the Constitution was not democratic, and, moreover, it did not establish the basis for democracy, but instead of the Republic of both Nations established an absolute hereditary monarchy. If this is democracy, then I'm a democrat too. What's more, she took the voice of the nobles. Only the nobility of the castle, the landowners, the property owners, had the right to vote, the nobles of the rabble, the nobles, who did not have the land that voted, hanging from your doorknob, as she is voting for the PiS or another party today, because she received 500+ from them, and then she voted for the magnates. And of course, she had to be denied the right to vote. So that, of course, I support this Constitution on 3 May. Thirdly, the method of introducing this constitution was completely contrary to the principles of democracy, because most nobles were essentially against this constitution. A conspiracy has been made, no notification has been made to those Members who were, you know, against this constitution, of the meeting of the Sejm. And if someone arrived, then Marshal Bielinski belonging to the confederation belonging to the Masonry, because it was the Masonry that organized, with Fr. The king was also a member of the Masonry at the time, by the way, organized it and did not let these Members just over the corners. And in this way the Constitution was succeeded on May 3rd. So that I am in favour of establishing 2021 as the Year of Constitution 3 May, but in order to learn from it: firstly, tell the truth about this constitution, what it proclaimed, how it was introduced, and perhaps introduce here also today, so that only the property owners have the right to vote, and then the responsible, stable people vote. At least in the local elections only property owners in the locality should vote because they have an interest in the locality. He lives in this town for a year or two, he'll vote for a new dance hall, and he'll leave after a year, right? Locals with real estate, Earth citizens, local citizens should vote. The concept of an urban citizen, an earthly citizen, needs to be restored. Again, too. I'm in, just remember: the truth will set us free. Thank you for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u432	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u433	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The question is addressed to the representatives of the United Right, who so willingly identify with the Constitution on 3 May, without deluding themselves to be special supporters of the Constitution at all. Do you know that, according to the current constitution, judges should be inextricable? Do you know that judges should be free to go? That courts and tribunals should be separate and independent from other authorities, including from various ministers, prime ministers, deputy prime ministers, who have social relations with judges, etc.? Do you know that the President of the Republic of Poland should ensure that the Constitution is respected? Do you know that all public authorities should act on the basis and within the limits of the law? Do you know that the Republic of Poland should be a legal state and that all citizens should be equal to the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u434	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u435	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, it's kind of a paradox that we're debating about May 3rd, his honor, in a time of violation of our modern constitution. On May 3rd he was a forbidden holiday. The multi-thousandth manifestation in Krakow was brutally dispersed in 1946. The feast of May 3 was gradually extinguished to be abolished in 1951. Symbolic on May 3, 1952, the Polish Radio Free Europe began broadcasting in Munich. At the end of the 1970s, the democratic opposition community returned to the celebration tradition on 3 May. In 1980, the demonstration in Gdansk gathered several thousand people, after which the speakers of Dariusz Kobzdej from the Movement of Young Poland and Tadeusz Szczudłowski from the Movement for the Defence of Human Rights and the Citizen were arrested for 3 months. The Renaissance of May 3rd can be referred to in 1980 after the rise of the Solidarity. In the 1980s, martial law was demonstrated many times on the occasion of May 3rd. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. It would be a long time to talk about this, in any case on 3 May became an expression of opposition to power, a manifestation of citizenship and freedom in the Polish People's Republic. The following question arises: Do you, for example: The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, now and sport, will take action to remind not only about the Constitution itself on 3 May, but also about the role of celebrations of 3 May in regaining freedom by Poles? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u436	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u437	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This, of course, is an extremely honorable thing that this event, the constitution will be the patron of the year. This gives us an assumt to rediscover what it is for us, for the state, for the nation, for the rulers, for the parliament, for the constitution, what are the fundamental rights that we should be guided by by the government, acting every day for the good of the state, for the good of the nation. And the question that we need to ask ourselves today, which government should ask ourselves, is whether, for sure, these actions, these actions which it is undertaking, are in line with the constitution. Will this year, which is coming, in which we will be so honored that the patronage will be the Constitution on May 3rd, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shouldn't the government make a certain return in their actions and return to respecting those fundamental values that we should all be guided by both life and public activity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The idea of a resolution for 2021 to be the Year of Constitution 3 May was born in the Sejm Bureau. I took a look at the 381 sejm paper today. The Sejm Bureau authorised Marshal Ryszard Terletki to present the resolution, and you signed the Sejm by Marshal Elżbieta Witek. I do not hide that I smiled because the project contains words about encouragement to reflect on the heritage of the Constitution on 3 May today. But how do you do that when several times the ruling camp broke the constitution, even in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal or changes in the Polish judiciary? In the first days of the 9th term of office, Members were punished, who appeared in this Chamber with scarves bearing the inscription "Constitution." The Constitution for you, Members of the United Right, is not what it should be - you are changing its rules, breaking the state of constitutional rights, the right to freedom and equality. Therefore, if you really want to worship with the whole society [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2021, the Constitution, it is not enough to adopt a Parliamentary Resolution and to stress that the Constitution on 3 May contains innovative solutions. It is necessary to demonstrate, every day, that the present constitution is the most important act. It must be respected, not mocked by those who have been in charge for several years. Otherwise, the resolution of the Seym will remain only a piece of written paper. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u440	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. Restore the Constitution on May 3rd!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u441	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not think that this authority has the right to establish the year 2021 as the Year of Constitution 3 May, since it is violating the current basic law. Art. 180 speaks of the inevitability of judges, while 40% of the Supreme Court judges have been removed. The government subjugated the courts, regardless of the article. 178 and Article 5 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 173 referring to the independence of judges and the separation of courts. You ripped it out. The members of the PiS have taken over the entire KRS against Article. 187. Marshal, what is this? You didn't agree with your vision of the TK, you considered it art. 190 and Art. 194. Contrary to art. 42 President Duda pardoned Kaminski, who was not convicted of a final sentence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And where is it written in the constitution? You have broken eight other articles of the basic law. That's your bill. That's not the way you follow the law. So maybe instead of celebrating, we should be establishing 2021 a year of national mourning after a trampled constitution? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u442	Please, Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened attentively to the statement of the Law and Justice Club, which advocated the establishment of 2021 Year of the Constitution 3 May, i.e. the next year will be celebrated in the spirit of some reflection on the Constitution. The problem, however, is that Law and Justice have been celebrating the constitution since the beginning of their governments since 2015, not in the sense that they celebrate it, but in respect of it, that is, they do not respect it, and the constitution must be respected above all. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Two pictures of Poland: 1791 and 2020 Consider what catastrophe you can bring. Finally: in 2015 the European Commission distinguished [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Constitution of 3 May is a sign of European Heritage. You, the Law and Justice, have trampled on this legacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Your Marshal, you didn't react like there was a dart constitution in this room, the basic law of 1997. You did not react like a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland formally, but in fact some activist and happy girl did a really shameful act here. Why didn't your marshal react? There can be no agreement in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, you are telling the truth. Indeed, it is the Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska, the Agreement defends today's constitution, defends sovereignty and defends the three divisions of power, precisely the one which was the basis of the basic law of 3 May 1791. Let us remind you: On 27 April 1792 the trade union was actually established in St. Petersburg, in fact it was a few weeks later, on 18/19 May. Today, the Brussels confederation is in front of our eyes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oh, Jesus Christ. Because you, ladies and gentlemen, on the 230th anniversary you want to strike exactly three divisions of power and you want to take away sovereignty from Poles, voting today for the position of Brussels and Berlin, who are blackmailing Poland and want to take away sovereignty from Poland. Shame and shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u446	I didn't react to the way the Member ruined the cards. I always regret how someone destroys a book, but she screamed cards. And the state is destroying the constitution, breaking the constitution, punishing people for wearing stamps with the inscription: the constitution, screwing people who are on the streets with such signs. You really need to have the nerve to accuse the messenger of expressing her views, knowing that you have been breaking the constitution for the past few years. [[Applause]] Bravo! Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. Jacek Decoration. Excuse me, Mr Jacek Decoration, Law and Justice. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u447	It's okay. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Honestly, I'm surprised. I thought you were someone who was at least trying to keep some standards. It wasn't any postcards, it was a constitution, so, your marshal, really a little reflection and reflection. Stop manipulating. I'll refer to Mr. Zimoth's words: finish this game, but it's hypocritical. That's why the hypocrisy that you come here... Mr. Piątkowski is talking about judges. Have you ever heard of a judge who stole, for example? The sausage, the flash drive that beat up his wife? And a judge like that wasn't supposed to be kicked out? [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Think about what you're talking about. Are you talking about the Neumann doctrine? So who called and said that if you were on the Civic Platform, you'd be defended because we'd defend you like independence? Stop it. Yeah, finish it, Mr. Zimoch, this game. Because you're screaming because you're afraid of Stanislaw G., Sławomir N. That's what you're afraid of. That's independence for you? We're afraid of Jarosław K. 230 years ago... Next year we celebrate the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution on 3 May (the bell) and you should respect the Polish constitution, sovereignty, independence. And you want to give it all to Brussels. As for justice, these are the best words regarding the conclusion of Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz's term of office: there was an organized criminal group in town hall and outside the town hall. And that was the independence you're ashamed of today? Mrs. Marshal! You should be the first to make a motion to the ethics committee on the fact that there is a constitution in this Chamber that you are referring to. Why are you yelling and yelling on the street: Constitution, if you're treating it as a stadium cry and a dart card? You're screaming. This is really embarrassing what you're doing in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u448	I said clearly that I did not approve of the destruction of books, the darkening of books, but I understood the honourable Member. I would really like us to focus on the Constitution on May 3rd and talk about the importance of the Constitution in society's life. I'm also asking you to calm your emotions. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u449	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Marshal, for this clear attitude - the attitude of protection and respect for the Polish Constitution, because it is respected and not broken, Mr Decoration, Mr Kowalski. To make such a spectacle from this space, from the speaker on the 230th anniversary of the Constitution of May 3, 1791, it is simply an ordinary shame. We are proud of the fundamental law of the Republic of Poland of both Nations - the first in Europe, the second in the world. She was revolutionary. Agreed, adopted under specific conditions, but as at that time equaled the civil rights of the burghers and nobles, it gave protection to the peasants of the state, it destroyed the warlords of Liberum veto. Okay, she was introducing a hereditary monarchy, but that was the time. And so it was revolutionary for that moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, today let us have the spirit of those rights in our heart and keep our respect for today's constitution. But let us not break it, as the Members of the Law and Justice do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u450	Thank you very much. In corrigendum mode. Well, in the procedure of correcting Mr Korwin-Mikke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a correction, I would like to point out that the veto liberum was abolished in Poland 25 years before the Constitution was adopted on 3 May and was the cause of the fall of the Third Republic, not the other way around. I am amazed that people who say it is great that Mr Orbán and Mr Morawiecki will veto the constitution in Poland condemn Liberum veto. Liberum veto was a good institution - just as good as it is today, it was just as good then - and unfortunately it was abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u452	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u453	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution on 3 May was a step towards equality and a country that respects its citizens and citizens, a country that is approaching the rule of law, and that is what the current authority is so afraid of. The current government has broken the current Constitution of the Republic of Poland several times by swearing in the judges of the doubles of the Constitutional Tribunal, the unconstitutional election of the President, the Act on the National Council of Courts or the ban on the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court, by denying immunity to judges of Tulea, Moraviec and harassing other Polish judges, thus taking away their constitutional right to independent court from Poles and Poles. So when we celebrate 2021 as the Year of the Constitution 3 May, let us remember that more important than celebrating the historical constitution [[♪ The bell ♪]] is respect and observance of this present one. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u454	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2021 Year of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński (prints Nos 624 and 630). I ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee. That's where they spit, and it needs to be wiped clean. Mr, really, you know that we asked the Sejm Bureau to wipe out the platform and benches as part of the anti-COVID action to make us feel safe. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Exactly. That's right, they spit it out, it's gotta be washed off.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u455	Mrs. Marshal High Seym! 2021 is the year of 120th birthday anniversary and 40th anniversary of the death of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. On this occasion, the Sejm Bureau took the initiative to establish the year 2021 as Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. The Committee on Culture and Media set up a draft resolution at its meeting on 23 September, where this draft presented the commission of Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska. During the meeting there was a long, interesting, sometimes turbulent discussion. The Commission introduced several amendments to the resolution, strengthening its idea, and the effect was that the committee voted 24 for, 4 against and with 1 abstention recommended the High House to adopt a resolution on establishing the year 2021 as Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's Year. I thank all the members of the Committee on Culture and Media for a very interesting, interesting and informative discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u456	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the establishment of 2021 Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. I declare in advance that my club fully and wholeheartedly supports this initiative. 120 years from birth and 40 years from death, and probably next year will also be the year of beatification of the cardinal of the millennium, this is the best time to remind Stefan Wyszyński, one of the most important figures of contemporary history of Poland. I will not be like Cardinal Wyszyński's life story, he is well known and easily accessible, but I would like to draw attention to the most important aspects of his life and work. He came to direct the Polish Church in the years 1948-1981, during a madly difficult fight against communist totalitarianism. And let us remember that the Church was not only a religious community, it was for the 2.5th century the main depositary of tradition, national culture, language, it was a moral foundation. Cardinal Wyszyński, as the leader of the Church, stood up against the task of the dwarf: to protect the Church from destruction by totalitarianism, to protect Poles from repression just after the Hecatomb of the Second War, and at the same time not to capitulate, to maintain the moral backbone of the nation, a nation that has been part of the Western, i.e. Christian, culture and civilization for millennia. The Primate proved then that he was a man of dialogue and compromise. This should be read, for example, by the agreement with the Communists of April 1950. But he knew the limits of concessions. When pressure became too violent, memorable, famous words came out: Non possumus. This Primate of the Millennium was the initiator of the Great Novena millennium on the occasion of the millennium of Poland's baptism, with symbolic peregrination of the painting of Madonna Jasna Góra after all parishes, he arranged an act of renewal of Jasna Góra vows and he was the advocate of the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops from 1965. These were not only pastoral initiatives, but also civic, state initiatives. No cards. It is difficult for Wyszyński to imagine Karol Wojtyla's solidarity and appointment to the capital city of Piotrów, and thus it is difficult to imagine free Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Half a minute, Marshal. There you go. Of course, there is no time today to talk more about the impeccable attitude of the Primate during the Second War, to talk about his scientific work, theological work, focused on fate and work, and the dignity of a simple man. It's gonna be time to talk about all this during his year. Today, paradoxically, history has come to a circle. The pandemic challenges, but also the increasingly violent attacks on the Church, are the challenges we face today, and today we need the memory of cardinals. Wyszynski as a great authority, which, I hope, in his year will be a sign of awakening for all people of good will. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u458	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club on the establishment of 2021 Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Times are difficult, so the better that we can lean over the figure of Fr. Card. Wyszynski. In digging into his character, I found words that are beautifully suited to today's street reality. In 1972, Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński spoke to young people in Warsaw: You are allowed to take a critical attitude towards the actions of the elders, as long as it is combined with personal responsibility for the task you have to fulfil. What an extremely current context these words, words of the great Pole, defenders of human rights, the Primate of the Millennium, statesman. And he lived in the age of enslavement and dictatorship, then a communist dictatorship. In 1950 Primate Wyszyński as head of the Polish Church signed an agreement with the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Three years later, the government broke the deal, and the primate was arrested. It was then that he said his famous: Non possumus. The place of his imprisonment was Ryvald, Stokzek, Prudnik and Komańcza in Bieszczady. An important step on the way of Polish-German relations was inspired by the Primate's message of Polish bishops addressed to German bishops with a historical opinion: We forgive and ask forgiveness. As part of the retortion, the authorities of the Polish People's Republic organized a chase against bishops and the Primate, but it was the cardinal's story that was right, because without the message of bishops it would not be easy to get Polish-German closer and a gesture of reconciliation. When a massacre occurred on the coast in 1970, the cardinal took the side of the workers. Between 1980 and 1981, he brokered negotiations between the authorities and the emerging "Solidarity." He was a moral authority, a co-creator of social changes that led to the collapse of communism. For many today's hierarchs, it remains an unsurpassed pattern. In June 1983 in Warsaw about the Primate of the Millennium, the Pope said: He was a free man, he taught us, his compatriots, true freedom. He was a tireless spokesperson of the dignity of every man and good name of Poland (the bell) among the peoples of Europe and the world. And these words today have an extremely up-to-date pronunciation. The Civic Coalition Club, members of the cultural committee, recommends a positive opinion on the establishment of 2021 Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u460	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club opposes the establishment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in 2021. In a situation where dozens of Polish bishops are accused of hiding paedophile crimes, and several are accused of committing, honoring their teacher, master and spiritual father disgraces and ridicules the Sejm, which should retain restraint in passing any documents strengthening the corrupt institution of the Catholic Church and its officials. He can celebrate Lenin or Stalin. Cardinal. Wyszyński had his 2001 year and in 2019 the commemorated anniversary of the imprisonment. Verily, I say to you, let us put an end to these acts of shooting in the Seym. For 33 years as the primate of Poland, the cardinal carried out the disgraceful Vatican instruction of Crimean Sollicitationis, which ordered the transfer of pedophiles from the parish to the parish... A psychiatrist. A psychiatrist. Force the victims to remain silent, destroy the evidence, interfere with the investigation, not report any crimes. It was because of people like him and John Paul II that the Catholic Church became a safe haven for paedophiles, which now is among Polish clergy about 2 thousand. The reason for the less important opposition is the anti-communist obsession of the projectors, which caused the Cardinal's cooperation with the authorities of the Polish People's Republic to be ignored, and he was the initiator of the agreement concluded in 1950 in which the Church undertook to teach the faithful respect for state authority, i.e. the PZPR, to avoid political sermons, not to oppose the collectiveisation of villages, and above all, to quote, to combat the criminal activity of the underground band and to stigmatize and punish the clergy responsible for any underground and anti-state action. So-called dementia. Today, the soldiers cursed and the commitment to follow the Polish state rhyme are the brightest points in the life story of Primate Wyszyński, unfortunately neglected. We talked about this at the committee meeting, but the rapporteur did not mention it at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Left Club, I call on the Sejm to reject this completely unnecessary and socially harmful resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u462	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u463	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present my position on the establishment of 2021 Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. In 2021 the 40th anniversary of the death of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, one of the most outstanding Poles in postwar history, will be celebrated. It will most likely also be the year of the beatification of God's servant, a holiday for millions of believers in our country. If as a parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party we support the candidacy of cardinals. Wyszyński for the patron of 2021, is primarily because of social and patriotic reasons. I love my homeland more than my own heart - once confessed the primate - and everything I do for the Church, I do for her. Enjoying the independence and freedom of Poland today, it is difficult to overestimate its contribution to preserving national identity, defending man, family and, what is very important to us, the value of human work, especially agricultural work. Let me illustrate this with a few quotes that justify the extraordinary validity and value of his thoughts. Thus he spoke of the dignity of every man: There is a great deal to be said about the high dignity of man to understand that man exceeds everything that can exist in the world except God. If it exists, it is and will remain the greatest value and immortal power on earth. It is worth noting that the Primate of the Millennium respected all men, even those who persecuted him, and fought him with respect. It is a unique and necessary lesson today in the ability to conduct dialogue with all. Family and society. Cardinal. Wyszynski walked hard on the ground, calling for the building of an interhuman community at the cost of his sacrifice. Thus he taught: It is necessary in our homeland an example of sacrifice of self, that the modern man forgets himself and thinks of others - the good of the family, the fulfillment of his calling and the task of life toward others, the good of the whole nation. The Primate of the Millennium greatly appreciated the work of the land, which expressed its attachment to its homeland. It represents an episode of his life. During the September campaign... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you allow the marshal another half a minute? There you go. ...confessed soldiers in trenches in the Lublin region. Most of them were very scared. At a distance, he saw a farmer sowing a field. He approached him and said, "I wonder that you sow grain into the ground when everyone is fleeing. And the peasant said, "Please, Father, if I leave this grain in the granary, it will burn, and when I throw it into the ground, sooner or later somebody will eat bread from it." I remember the strange wisdom of this sower. Like this seed cast into the earth, so is the card. Stefan Wyszyński left Poland his teaching. It would be worth yielding in our homeland. It will certainly contribute to this announcement by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland patron of 2021. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, I recommend this resolution to the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u464	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u465	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In order for the Polish people to be able to thrive happily, safely and prosperously, they need real authorities. Authors who with their lives and attitudes have confirmed their great and lofty words. This is especially needed in a time of plastic pop culture, in a time of shallow, often only virtual relations, in a time of narrowing the perspective of your life only to the full belly and the state of your account, the cult of consumption, at a time when false authorities are placed on such ones, which have really nothing higher to propose than the advertising of a new product that will be old tomorrow. Fortunately, in the distant and distant history of Poland we find such people, persons worthy to put them on a pedestal and to inspire themselves. Real authorities. Surely such a figure is a cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński - Prince of the Church, Primate of the Millennium, great patriot. Socially sensitive, devoted to church service, courageous hierarch in relations with communists. From him the communists heard this famous: non possumus. 35 years - during such a period the communist security authorities carried out intensive surveillance of Cards. Wyszynski using various forms: from wiretaps, through reports, installation of a communist agent in his surroundings. The Catholic Church saw the uniqueness of the figure of Primate Wyszyński. The beatification originally announced on 7 June this year was suspended indefinitely. We're waiting for her. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to give the floor to Primate Wyszynski in a few selected quotations. Life must be lived with dignity, because there is only one. Today we need the faith that moves mountains, the love that unites them all, and the hope that never fails. You can lose everything but this! It is necessary to instruct women that the best cosmetic is the inner good that lies in their heart. It makes even an ugly man have some special charm, while the beautiful one... is said to be beautiful - and the matter is over. Citizens are not produced in factories; it is in the family, under the heart of mothers, that the nation hides. Good deeds bring light to the soul, bring inner relaxation, joy, and spiritual freedom. Human law must never be against God's law. If it were against it, it doesn't apply in conscience. If the Gospel comes out of the hand of the Nation, it will not save its moral, social and cultural level. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No manifestos or political programmes. We accept the announcement of 2021 by Primate Stefan Wyszyński. He was a great character. Thank God for such a primate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u466	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year has great patrons and no patron saint. 2021 will have great patrons and no patron saint. Emilia Plater, Wanda Krahelska, Pola Negri, Konopnicka, Modrzejewska, Maria Witte, Szymborska, Szewińska, Rutkiewicz, Michalina Wisłocka, Aniela Steinsbergowa, Osiecka, Kamila Skolimowska, Elżbieta Zawacka, Demarczyk, Janion - the history of Poland is full of outstanding socialists, politicians, activists, sportsmen, artists, doctors, lawyers. I could exchange them for hours. It is a shame that in the 21st century their memory should be specially sought. Therefore, I will propose a change in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so that something that should be a good custom, but unfortunately it is not, has become the right of outstanding Poles to the due memory. Like one a year. I believe that I will not only be supported (the bell) by all the Members, but also by fellow Members. Thank you. And homosexuals, homosexuals too. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u468	Thank you. Now we have people to ask questions. As the first Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u469	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To pay tribute to one priest, we must not forget what the rest of the priesthood is doing. There are over 650 victims and 300 perpetrators on the map of the church pedophilia, and that's just the tip of the iceberg. Even if one of them is convicted, he is not later placed in the pedophile register. On the other hand, children, victims of paedophile priests suffer for years, often in silence and humiliation. Every church hierarch hiding pedophiles and moving them from the parish to the parish, so that they can bully children for years, is an accomplice to the crime. His place is in prison. On the other hand, it is our duty, Members of this poor country, to at least make up for the victims of this organised operation. That is why I propose that the Sejm announce the year 2021 the victims of paedophiles priests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u470	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was surprised to hear that all the clubs were melting over the life and activities of cardinals. Wyszynski. You don't. Therefore, I ask you whether you do not really know these dark pages of everyone's life, I repeat: every bishop in the years 1922 and 2002 when it was the duty of the bishop to hide church pedophiles according to the secret Vatican instructions. Don't you know that in the Second Code of Canon Law, punishment for paedophile crimes was alleviated because bishops wanted to protect themselves and their employees - priests? Are the defenders of pedophiles really worthy to give them (the bell) as a pattern... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u472	Thank you. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think those words that came out of Professor Senyshin's mouth today are no commentable. And I, Professor, will buy you a book. In fact, I've already ordered... The truth will set you free. ...Biography of Cards. Stefan Wyszyński. I hope you get to know the beautiful card resume. Stefan Wyszyński... It's faked. The IPN wrote it? ...though you were a member of the Polish United Workers' Party... Member, please do not disturb me. ...and you were the person on the other side. As great authorities and as great Poles as Cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński should never share us here, regardless of whether we are on the left, on the right or on the center. Unfortunately, you use every situation to attack the Catholic Church, to attack believers, to attack people (the Bell) who have conservative sensitivity. This is a situation... I don't think believers believe in pedophiles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u474	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Decoration, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u475	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus has arrived in the room. I hope that you and Mrs Senyshin will hear these words: If they come to destroy this nation, they will begin with the Church, because the Church is the force of this nation. These are very important words spoken by the cardinal of the millennium. You can scream whatever you want, Mrs. Scheuring-Wielgus, Mrs. Senyshin, but the difference is: Who will remember you, all of us? We'll see about that. We're talking about the cardinal of the millennium, we're talking about John Paul. II, about a man without whom words, famous words spoken on en. The Constitution would probably not break that curtain that was destroying. And your words, your behaviour, Mrs... I feel like you're taking some educational books from Department IV of the MMA, which was created to destroy just as prominent people as card. Stefan Wyszyński, John Paul II and the people of the Church. The IPN is better at falsifying history. That scream that has now been made, and your behavior only proves your hypocrisy. Because you're an example of someone who could do it in the Church... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u476	Thank you very much, sir. You had one minute. We're not at the party... it's embarrassing. And stand on the side of not paedophiles, just victims... Please stand on the victim's side. Mr Władysław Bartoszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was lucky to know Fr. Card. Wyszyński as a child, because the Cardinal was taking care of, I would say, the political-spiritual of my father in the 1960s and 1970s, when he was a victim of the left of PZPR and the Security Service. [[Applause]] Well, Father Cardinal was a co-author of an extremely important magazine in 1965, the letter of Polish bishops. The authors of this letter were Fr. Card. Wyszyński, Archbishop Wojtyła and Archbishop Fireplace, who wrote it because he knew German well. Well, for the first time, there was such a significant statement in which reconciliation was demanded. The path of Polish-German reconciliation was indicated. And this way. German evangelists went first, then German Catholics with certain problems and ended up having normal relations with the German state. Well, I would like to ask: Does the Government of the United Right want to go on the road next year Fr. Card. Wyszynski, or continue his anti-German policy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But on the other hand, The Germans framed us for the Constitution on May 3rd.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u478	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I understand the emotions behind this discussion today, but I think it's worth taking a moment away from the current issues, from the evaluation that is the subject of today. We will celebrate the 40th anniversary of the death of Cards. Wyszyński - a person who spent 3 years in prison, in isolation, in a large person who influenced Polish history, also in connection with this courageous appeal to German bishops, written together with archbishops. The fireplace, an appeal that normalized relationships, really created relationships and a look at the Polish-German reconciliation. And that was a clear opposition to communist power. I propose not to combine the emotions connected with responsibility for today's huge problem of the Polish Church, the problem of pedophilia, with this person. Let's celebrate, because this person [[♪ The bell ♪]] He deserves really full respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u480	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on draft resolutions on: I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media a report on the work on the Law establishing 2021 by the Year of Stanisław Lem. Ladies and gentlemen! In September 2021 the 100th anniversary of the birth of Stanisław Lem - the most outstanding representative of Polish fantasy, one of the most widely translated Polish writers and one of the most illustrious science fiction writers in the world. This, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely interesting, colorful not only because of how he wrote, what he wrote about, but also because of the interesting life that, you can say, was involved in the history of our country. He was born in Lviv in a Jewish family, but at the same time went to religious classes, and he spoke about himself as an unbeliever. Complicated personality. As a young man, he was tested during an intelligence study and described as the most intelligent student of the whole part of Poland. So unusual intelligence, insight of the mind, but also interesting family. The family had two tenements. When the communists took over the area, he was declared a family of landowners. For this reason, when the repatriation took place, he moved with his family to Poland, to Krakow, losing the entire estate. During the German occupation he hid under a false name, fearing that he would be taken into captivity, because then all the Jews were destroyed, and they were sent to the ghetto. But after the war... During the war, he participated in the Resistance, hid one of his friends of Jewish origin, cooperated with the Resistance, so it can be said that he also had a beautiful patriotic card. After the war he moved to Poland and here he also met - even despite his own, one can say, views and in early youth looking into the communist system - he collided with this system. Yes, he had great problems because he once criticized communism in his writings, criticized Stalinism, baldness, and therefore had difficulties in his life. But the most important thing for which we worship this character is its wonderful work. Creativity, which, you can say, has set new directions not only in science fiction, but also in criticism. He wrote scripts, columnies, essays, literary journalism. Although, ladies and gentlemen, he is most famous for writing great science fiction novels. His rich work was even the reason that the American Academy considered the possibility that a team of writers was established in Poland, who under the pseudonym Lem - because some even suspected that it was an alias - write all kinds of such comprehensive literature. Later, of course, it was explained and Lem was considered one of the most outstanding writers. He was even a candidate for the Nobel Prize. He didn't get it, but his work is actually outstanding. She has made a great contribution to culture not only Polish but also worldly. The Commission recommends that the Sejm adopt a resolution to commemorate [[♪ The bell ♪]] This great writer next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u482	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, once again Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u483	Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour of expressing my support for the draft resolution presented by the Committee on Culture and Media on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Ladies and gentlemen! We appreciate the writer's great contribution to the development of Polish culture. His works, which, even though they are considered scientific fantasy, have many references to philosophy, to science, to culture in their depths. They also criticize the nature of the totalitarian state. Although, as I said before as rapporteur, he was somewhat fascinated by the socialist system in his early youth, he was even ashamed of his first work in which he praised the system. He didn't even allow them to be spent for a while, which also influenced authority's judgment. But, ladies and gentlemen, Lem in his works ran out, you can say, into the future, of course, as a creator of science fiction, which in some sense deals with the future and presenting various trends, the future of science. It was Lem who predicted a lot of things that are happening in front of us today, e.g. The futurological congress talked about how power manipulates people in different ways. He called it some kind of puppets, where evil reality was covered with various tricks. Today, such tricks are, as we look at the media in Poland, at least some, which mask reality, represent it completely differently. It can be said that a few decades ago, he was an explorer of today's PR, a lie that gives the mark of truth. But he also outlined some new directions of literary criticism, e.g. unwritten works. He also had a very great ability to write not only in an extremely interesting and perceptive way, but also with a great sense of humor. His sense of humor makes these novels very eager to read and bring many wonderful experiences. I recommend to all Lem's works (The Bell) as creators of works of the highest artistic quality. The Law and Justice Club will support the resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Stanisław Lem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u484	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As always, when we are engaged in culture or art in the Polish Parliament, we have very little time. This time we have three minutes. This shows how important the debate on culture is for you. I am not surprised, however, because Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Piotr Gliński believes that culture is part of the economy. If we are dealing with such thinking here, this is indeed a dramatic situation. I want to communicate to Mr Glinski - we have known this for many, many hundreds of years - that the economy is part of culture. Stanisław Lem, who will surely be the patron of 2021, is a giant, intellectual colossal, wonderful artist, quasi-scientific, historian, but also bon vivant. Some people think it's also a great, outstanding satirist. In fact, I am shocked that Mr Suski requested that 2021 be Stanisław Lem's Year, because Stanisław Lem was at best an agnostic, but he declared himself an atheist, not to mention, of course, that his affair with the Polish People's Republic was quite clear. It was during the PRL that this outstanding writer created all his great books, essays, as well as reviews. Lem was an extremely strong polemist. It is worth remembering that Polish culture, and therefore European culture, and therefore world culture - in these spaces Stanisław Lem moved - is our property, just as our space is the European Union, in which Lem would certainly feel excellent. He'd probably be one of her most spectacular members. I don't think so. Don't you think? I think you're wrong. It is also worth remembering that Stanisław Lem's work, which travels somewhere between literature, history and science, is an outstanding literature. Lem goes to the history of world culture as a writer who created a new form of novel. And the fact that he could do science fiction is obvious because we still don't know when he was born. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u486	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Left will vote for 2021 to be the Year of Stanisław Lem. We believe that not only this round anniversary should be a reason to commemorate Lem in this way. In times of post-truth, false authority, and ever stronger moral nihilism, it is worth turning to the wrongly shifted side of humanism, that is, an approach that puts man at the centre of interest. We've got a pandemic of Coronavirus now. We know that this is not just a health or economic problem. This is above all a social problem. The pandemic has turned our social relations upside down in a violent and unprecedented way. It's hitting one of the most fundamental human needs, that is, the need to live in a herd, in a community, in physical contact or simply, simply speaking, living with another human being. The Pandemic forced people to wear masks, which is right, but it also introduced fear of the most basic direct contact with another human being. The burden of human communication in these times has taken over the communication technology, which on the one hand allows contact on an unprecedented scale, but on the other hand is a threat, because these contacts are slippery, deformed and deprived of the value of directness. That is why Lem, who created a vision of the worlds controlled by technology, but also showed the loss of man, his loneliness and the need for closeness, turns out to be a visionary and philosopher of our time. His message is now even more up-to-date than in the 20th century when he lived and created. An increasing role in our lives and in the world is played by the prefix: post-. We say: post-truth, post-modernism, post-modernity, post-politicalism or finally post-humanism. I believe that this post-it is a danger of our times, because it means taking man away from value and from another human being. Lem, under the cloak of postmodernism and postmodernity, proclaimed a deeply humanistic idea of turning towards another man. That's exactly what we're missing right now. Therefore, we should remind Poles of Lem's work very often. I hope so. I hope that 2021 will be the Year of Stanisław Lem and we will remind his works to young generations, because it is worth it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u488	Mr Władysław Bartoszewski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Stanisław Lem was an outstanding writer, philosopher of Earth and space, lion, Pole, Jew. 30 million copies of his books were released. It has been translated into over 40 languages. He had so many, he didn't open the translation packages. These books were gathering in his house, there were piles of them. I was honored to meet him in person. Stanisław Lem knew my father for half a century, and for the last 24 years of his life he was very close to him, they were in great friendship. My father later said he had no personal secrets from Lem or political secrets. Given that his father was a natural conspirator, it was very unusual that he became so close to Lem at the time of martial law. My father even had a key to the Lem family's home in Vienna and sometimes lived there for weeks while they were elsewhere. This enabled me to meet Lem not only as the author of fascinating books that I read as a teenager, but also as a private person. Stanisław Lem was an introverted, power-enthusiast man, focused on writing, which is by itself a solitary activity, on his wife Barbara and on his son Thomas. He was the son of the famous Lviv laryngologist Samuel Lem, an officer of the Austrian Tsar army, whose miraculously saved one of his Jewish patients from being shot by the Bolsheviks. Because this particular patient served in the Russian army. Thanks to his father... That few people know, Stanisław Lem was also Marian Hemar's aunt's brother. That probably doesn't tell you much because you're young. But Marian Hemar, or rather Hescheles, was an outstanding and well-known satirist, author of thousands of songs, soldier of the independent Carpathian Rifle Brigade near Tobruk, and employee of the Polish Radio Free Europe after the war. Stanisław Lem had a very happy childhood - he grew up as an only child in a wealthy and well-known Lviv family. His youth, however, looked completely different. In May 1939 he graduated, and already in September his beloved city of Lviv was occupied by the Soviets. Lem, considered by the Soviets to be a bourgeois, could not study at the Lviv University of Technology, but managed to get into the medical department of the university. In June 1941, after the German invasion, the Lemów family was imprisoned in a transitional camp on the Lviv Sand. Thanks to the help of former high school colleagues who were members of the OGM, he organized an escape and hid his parents from his former housekeeper. The ZWZ colleagues made them great papers, which allowed Lem to work as a locksmith in the Wehrmacht car workshops. There, trained by the AGM, repaired the engines of these cars (the bell) that were going... Mr. Marshal, let me... ...to the east front, that after a few hundred kilometers they got off and were unusable. The same Lem, thanks to these hard papers - because such papers that you work for the Wehrmacht, it was a miracle - he saved himself and his family. Unfortunately, he and his parents were the only ones who succeeded. The rest of the family was murdered. One uncle, hidden by Christians throughout the war, was killed during the Kielce Pogrom in 1946. Stanisław Lem spoke of these things incredibly rarely, and he never wrote. I know that from family connections. After the war, the family settled in Krakow, although Lviv remained the love of his life. He graduated from medical school, but in order to avoid military service, which was then forced for doctors, he failed the final exam, and as a writer he was able to function, he could avoid downloading. After his initial failure, he worked out what he said, the unique style and drama of writing, which went far beyond science fiction. It was rather a philosophical reflection, reflection on the philosophy of culture and technology. He dealt with the consequences of misuse of technology by the people who created it, anticipating ethical problems related to the development of artificial intelligence, warning against unintelligible anthropocentrism, investigating the role of the case as a cause force. He's ahead of that by generations. He is an outstanding writer and philosopher, an outstanding Pole, he deserves it. The Polish Coalition Club votes in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u490	Thank you very much. I just want to let you know that in other cases, I'm not gonna prolong my time. Unless it gets so interesting. Unless you do. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation. It's remote. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u491	Can you hear me? Yes. Ladies and gentlemen! Stanisław Lem is one of the most famous Poles in the world. He published 40 independent books translated into 40 languages of the world and printed in more than 40 million copies. Lem is mostly known as a writer, which sounded in most of the speeches of my previous speakers, and mostly as a science fiction writer, even though he also wrote realistic novels such as the Transfiguration Hospital or the crime scenes like the investigation. On the other hand, I would like to point out on the 100th anniversary of Stanisław Lem's birth that out of these 40 titles only 20 are beletristics, and the other 20 are what he called discourse prose, namely essays and philosophical columnies. Stanisław Lem was above all an outstanding philosopher. According to Professor Wolniewicz - the most outstanding philosopher of the second half of the 20th century, and beletristics was a pre-run or an illustration of his very deep philosophical also, which refer unintentionally to Lucrezia, which is why Lem is called Lucretius of Lviv. So it would be on this occasion and for the next year to remember what philosophical thesis we are talking about. Lem, like Czesław Miłosz, was a manicheist, in other words, thought that there was a fight of good against evil in the world, and consequently he shared Christian anthropology, i.e. He was a pejorist, thought that in every human being he was born to some degree, in various ways, depending on man, evil. Therefore, his view is inconsistent with contemporary left-wing ideology, with modern pedagogy, with stress-free education. He was leaning towards the fact that education should be traditional, that is to put brakes in the form of certain clear moral principles in order to inhibit this tendency towards the evil that is in man. Probably because it is incompatible with contemporary ideology and pedagogy, his first story entitled: Haupsturmführer Koestnitz, which he wrote and which is just talking about such things, for 70 years, since writing, has not been printed in Poland. Only 3 years ago, as a result of the efforts of one of the lemologists, was printed in the magazine Odra. His next thesis is such a very concrete thesis, resulting from pejorism, that is, that Lem was a supporter of the death penalty. He felt that if a man committed a disgusting crime, was rid of humanity and that in order to give justice to people, the death penalty should be executed on him. He didn't believe in changing people, in rehabilitating people, and stuff like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's more, it's already mentioned here that Lem... Thank you very much, sir. ...was an unbeliever.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u492	Thank you very much. Two Members have asked questions. Mr Marek Rutka. One minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Stanisław Lem wrote: Perhaps things will go better and the same way in the years several dozen. For now, we're doomed to a political elite that makes a decent man blush. Taking advantage of the opportunity - it is worth to find a futurological congress in the canon, in which Lem used an example of totalitarian propaganda and mass socio-technical experiments. I would like to dedicate this appeal to Minister Czarnek in particular. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u494	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Stanisław Lem, of which not everyone knows, was a man who described exactly how artificial intelligence should be created, which was created in Britain one and a half years ago - the first artificial intelligence. But not many people know that it was a man who had overthrown communism and socialism. Lem's works, which, under the pretext of science fiction novels, mercilessly criticized reality, were caught up by young people from PZPR, (...) the Soviet Union. You don't have... but I'm sure you would have confirmed it. These people have absorbed it all. And he created this subsoil that these people began to ignore communism, started laughing at socialism. These people then agreed to a painless surrender of power. Those young people. He was a young man's god. In the Soviet Union, he published - no, at all - a book about the return from the stars. This book went (the bell) with the foreword of Włodzimierz Komarów - I am about to finish - who wrote in it: Contrary to appearances it is not an antisocialist book. She was ripped off right away. Thank you very much, sir. He destroyed socialism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u496	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by Cyprian Kamil Norwid (prints Nos 508 and 632). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u497	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I reported a desire to correct my speech in the course of the previous discussion. Mr. Mieszkowski was surprised that I offered to celebrate Stanisław Lem, even though he described himself as an agnostic. It is precisely this, Mr Lem, that we appreciate the greatness of the literary depth of Stanislaw Lem... Mr President, we are already talking about someone else. ...not on the basis of what you're sure you're gonna do when you judge artists. But I move to the committee's report on the establishment of the year 2021 of Cyprian Kamil Norwid. Ladies and gentlemen! Commission after a very interesting discussion reminiscent of Cyprian Kamila's life and work Norwida recommends the High House to celebrate his memory next year, just all year long, which will resemble this extraordinary figure in the history of Poland, but not only in the history of Poland, one can say, in the history of European and world culture. Ladies and gentlemen! We know Cyprian Kamil Norwid as a writer of literature, a poet, a great patriot, although perhaps even less. His work, of course, was deeply marked by love for Poland, care for its fate, that we are under partitions. Cyprian Kamil Norwid believed that art, but not only literature, but art at all, is a field that can awaken Polish patriotism and make such a change in the hearts of Poles to serve their homeland, so that it is his belief that the homeland is a great collective duty, it is in the hearts of all Poles. Unfortunately, both then and now some Poles love their homeland, and some use foreign powers. Cyprian Kamil Norwid was just appealing to our great national and European tradition, to serve and remember where we come from and to whom we should be grateful for our origins by loving Poland. But, ladies and gentlemen, about his literary achievements, we all studied at school. Maybe I'll skip that part about his literary work. I will refer to another work, which he seems to have appreciated even higher than his literary works - his artistic works. He spent his whole life thinking he was an outstanding sculptor and, of course, an artist. He devoted most of his life to this field of activity, although this part - that's why I'm talking about it - is much less famous than literary work, which was rediscovered because he died in oblivion and in poverty, in exile. This work was discovered only during the Young Poland period, but his artistic art was also marked by love for his homeland. Sculpting or creating reliefs, or even through his beloved, as he called it, the field: medaling wanted to refer to the history of Poland, but at the same time referring to Roman culture, ancientity and moving these beautiful traditions to modern European and Polish culture. Many of his works are missing, but the works that remain are marked by great love for their homeland, as well as introducing new symbols to Polish art, for which we should be grateful. The Culture Committee therefore recommends that the High House establish the year 2021 (the bell) as the Year of Cyprian Kamila Norwid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u498	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Cyprian Kamil Norwid - poet, prose writer, playwright, graphic designer, sketch artist, undoubtedly one of our greatest artists. The creator of expressive style that precedes the era, for Poles of the 20th and 21st centuries. Establishment of Cyprian Kamila Year next year Norwid will remind you of his work, which he has been looking at in recent years, as if less often. Therefore, it is worth recalling that volumes have been appearing for several years - perhaps the first 12th critical edition of works by all Cyprian Kamil Norwid has already been published. It is published by the Catholic University of Lublin and it is a beautiful edition with graphics, drawings of Norwid, the first critical, full edition of everything that was found, what came out from under Cyprian Kamil Norwid's pen, a priceless thing. Professor Grażyna Halkiewicz-Sojak, who is on the editorial committee of this edition, recently said to the Polish Press Agency that Norwid is such a poet whose work is important in difficult times, when you are looking for a dimension seriously. We could really use it, said the professor, his thinking about the truth and the distinction between freedom of speech and freedom of speech. Perhaps some in this Chamber remember his recommendation from the beginning of the political brochure: "It is not necessary to bow down to the circumstances, but to tell truths to stand by the door. I would like to remind you something else: no Polish king stood on the scaffold, so the Frenchman will say to us: rebels./ No Polish monk blasphemed So the heretic will tell us heretics. No plow of other people's plow plowed the ground, so I'll be counted as thieves. No Polish spirit has broken up with theirs, so they will teach us - what is happening? But time goes on - the Noble-Christ, the Conscience-voice-and-knowledge-nothing; but the time goes and the way is easy... Fear is what they today learn from God. There's nothing to add. Law and Justice is pleased to support the proposal to establish the year 2021 as the Year of Cyprian Kamil Norwid. This poet, who dreamed, wrote about Poland gold-bee, Poland transformed circles, which he would know at the ends of existence, is today, free Poles, we need here and now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u500	Thank you. Member of the Commission, Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to recommend, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, the adoption of a resolution establishing the year 2021 as the Year of Cyprian Kamil Norwid. Norwid is a very special artist. Today we would say that a versatile visionary, because he was also a prosaic, a poet, a playwright, a graphic artist, a painter, and a thinker. The patronage of 2021 offers a unique opportunity to remind his character and work, to look at this work again, from the perspective of the 21st century, especially in times where we need authority and values so much. And Norwid was looking for a dialogue with the present, with its artistic, philosophical and social problems, but then no one wanted to engage with him. Unnoticed in his lifetime, he was unknown in the culture of the 19th century, absent. He must have waited a long time for his time. It was discovered and appreciated by representatives of Young Poland, who as Norwid understood the tragic fate of a poet misunderstood by contemporary poet, for whom the ideas of art creating beauty and the concept of symbol are important. That is why it is probably time, in the 21st century, to start a new dialogue with Norwid, Norwid, for whom an ordinary man placed in the concept of the universe, universality was important. And what has already been mentioned here: art was very important to him, because he thought that they introduce beauty in people's everyday lives. And a very interesting thing. Czesław Miłosz said that Norwid created the concept of a modern artist, who is also a craftsman and is entitled to a fair wage for his work. In conclusion, I will present and quote my favorite quote from Norwid. Maybe not pathetic, but giving back what is really important in life: Only two of the things of this world will be left. Two only: poetry and kindness... and nothing more. We recommend Norwid's admission as patron of 2021. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u502	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u503	High Izbo! In 2001, at the initiative of Michael Kawecki, Cyprian Kamil Norwid symbolically returned to his homeland, which he had to leave as only 20 years old. The urn with the earth extracted from his grave at Montmorency cemetery near Paris stood in the crypt of Wawel. When making a film, Norwid's return, I visited many places connected with the poet, among others. Kazimierz's factory in Ivra, where Norwid, after years of suffering, was blind and deaf, died. Unfortunately, we will never get to know the last of his works, because Polish nuns who manage the shelter burned the manuscripts of a freakish old man. Lies! Lie! The most important thing, however, is that what remains of it is considered to be great, and it itself - an outstanding Polish poet, the last of the four great romantics, the first positivist whom the Young Poland discovered and recognized as its forerunner. Norwid lived outside Poland in Dresden, Berlin, Venice, Florence, where he studied sculpture, Rome, Paris, London and several months in New York. The poet-troller was undoubtedly a European and a citizen of the world. He fought with a pen, for example. to abolish slavery in the United States. But he always missed Poland, which he could not return to. The unfulfilled love of his life was the pianist Maria Kalergis, who rejected the youthful feelings of a twenty - three - year - old. He never started a family. The artist was also a cartoonist and painter. Only four of his oil paintings survived to this day. Sometimes he had sponsors, he worked in a graphics studio, but he also used to chop wood. But he spent most of his life in poverty, loneliness and oblivion. Unlike other romantics, he rarely addressed topics related to the history of Poland, and if any, he included them in a wider context and in general human categories. His work is a new type of romantic poetry, because the fourth word was not focused on the nation and glorifying Polish martyrdom. On the contrary, he argued with the ubiquitous cult of heroism, lack of a sense of civic duty, Polish backwardness, primitiveism and mediocrity. He focused on man and his duties and daily matters. Not on heightened feelings, but on thought and work. He thought poetry should force intellectual effort. His contemporaries accused him of darkness, strange and incomprehensible style, understatements, and weirdness. He was a deeply believing Christian, a thinker, but not a devout. In his day he was an alien, today he inspires other artists: from Niemen to Budka Suffler to Tinyczuk. At the creators of disco polo vain (the bell) look for Norwid inspiration. I don't think he could count on a grant from Gliński. Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party. Well, maybe I can finish without the microphone. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, Member. Time. I think that's why the words from the letter to Michalina from Dziekoniczne Zaleska are so valid here: "We are no society. We're a great national flag. But as it is today, the Pole is a giant, and the man in the Pole is a dwarf - and we are caricatures, and we are a tragic nothingness and a huge laughter... The sun above the Pole rises, but covers its eyes over man. The Left Club supports the resolution making the year 2021 Norwid, but doubts whether Norwid would like to return to Poland Kaczyński, Ziobra and Czarnka. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u504	And I don't think the Left could do it. Norwid is serious. Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u505	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, I present the position of the club on the establishment of 2021 as the Year of Cyprian Kamil Norwid. Cyprian Kamil Norwid was born in the village Lasko-Deaf under Radzymin. He was baptized in a nearby church in Dąbrówka, where there is a memorial plaque and an act of Norwid's baptism. In the parish cemetery in Dąbrówka there is also a symbolic tombstone of his mother Ludwika. He often stayed in the nearby Radzymin Strachówka, where Norwid and his parents are reminded each year through the Vademecum - in the wedding coroner of Cyprian Norwid's parents, who comes all the way to Sulejów, where parents, Louis and John were married. I quote here the names of these towns, because we know that Mazowiecka is a land of Norwid's childhood, a land especially loved by him. Norwid died in Paris. A poet, a writer, a prosaic. He did sculpture, painting, drawing and ritual. He spent his school years and early youth in Warsaw, where since 1840 his poems were published in magazines. Most of his work was created when he was outside Poland. Norwid was one of the most original and best-sided Polish writers and thinkers. Sculptor, painter, music expert, translator among others Dante, Shakespeare, Byron. He had extensive, albeit amateur knowledge, especially in the field of cultural history. Norwid's extensive literary achievements are characterised by the diversity of species forms and programmed novelty, resulting from the reluctance to reproduce the forms and formulas found. The center of Norwid's interest was man and reality created by him. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I recommend the High House to adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation. I inform you that I will no longer allow questions in these last two points, because we are very late, and this is the second reading and there is no habit of asking questions at second reading. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In view of the 200th anniversary of Cyprian Kamil Norwid's birth next year, the idea to name him is a valid idea. The only thing we need to do is to make sure that other gestures go beyond the adoption. Let us remind you that we only had the year of Joseph Conrad, Józef Korzeniowski. Unfortunately, the programmes of cultural events devoted to him are difficult to consider as rich and restoring in the public consciousness the achievements of this great Pole, an emigration writer, a writer also political, unknown from this point of view, a man with conservative views. It is similar with Cyprian Kamil Norwid. Even with this brief discussion, it can be seen that every political camp, ideal camp, is ready to save Cyprian Kamil Norwid to itself. In one of the speeches preceding my speech, we even managed to discuss the person of Cyprian Kamil Norwid without referring to what was the core of his worldview, his thinking about the world and his art, namely, without mentioning his Christian faith. However, he was the defender of not only the Church, not only the truth of faith, but also during the Spring of the Peoples he defended Pope Pius IX. Poland, which he dreamed of, is free, independent Poland, Christian Poland, rooted in the faith of its ancestors. There is nothing to do with Norwid who he was not, not only because of his great and numerous artistic talents, because he was not only a poet, a painter, a sculptor and a sculptor, as we have heard here, but also because of his modesty. In connection with current events, let me recall such a modest picture of his life from memories of Norwid left behind by Antoni Jeziorski. Namely, Norwid once got into a dispute with women who did not have due honor for Catholic temples. This dispute led him to one of the offices where Norwid was asked: "Citizen, why do you deny people to do what they like?" That's what you're trying to stop their freedom with. Norwid bowed down and answered: "I have been called a citizen. It's a great honor to me, which I didn't deserve. As for the charge I answer: I do not tame anyone's freedom, but I consider it my duty to influence, as far as it is in my power, the troubled minds and the artificially suppressed conscience. This was Norwid, a humble man, a man with great respect for our heritage and religious and cultural, a man who thought politically, whose political thought, the national thought remains unknown. It's worth remembering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u508	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński (prints Nos 615 and 700). I ask Mr Mariusz Polużny to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! On October 23rd, we discussed the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2021 Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński as the 100th anniversary of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński's birth will pass this year. And while we were not unanimous about the content, we were indeed unanimous about the fact that we had to celebrate the character. At this point, I would like to ask you to support this resolution. I would also like to thank all the patriotic, national environments that have asked a group of Members to commemorate not only the poetry and magnificent work of one of the greatest representatives of the poetry generation of Columbus, but also to commemorate the fact that he gave his life for his homeland. Thank you to all these associations, this environment with Mr. Witold Cieśla at the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u510	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Mariusz Kałużny on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to recommend the adoption of a resolution commemorating Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński. In situations like this, thinking of our homeland, we ask: What kind of nation is it that shoots at an enemy with diamonds? We answer: the Polish people. A Polish nation experienced tears of suffering and joy of freedom. Freedom of Poland has a great price, it has cost us a lot. It's given to us and given to us. Was the life of the poet, the insurgent Baczyński wasted? It would have been if we hadn't celebrated his life if we hadn't celebrated his work. It would be if we gave up fighting for free Poland. Yes, the fight for free Poland continues, and its areas are culture, sovereignty, freedom and national identity. Culture. The intellectual and moral degeneration of the public debate is a call for a higher culture, a culture of the word, a culture of dialogue. It is a call to defend the entire material and spiritual heritage of our homeland. National identity is all that defines us, is all that defines us as Poles. Poland has value. It is worth not only dying for her, but most of all it is worth living for her. When it is necessary to work, with a pen, with action, and when the homeland is in need, to grab a gun. We need a patriotic awakening. Our insurgent poet may be an inspiration to the young generation, where there are powerful decks of good that are just waiting to come out after breaking the shell of the tutoring of shame. I think that announcing 2021 Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński will inspire the young to continue his poetry, continuing the spirit of the prematurely fallen poet, the Boy Scout, the insurgent of the Columbus generation. Freedom. Freedom is not an agreement to destroy values. Freedom is a defense of values. And if you're handcuffed with positions and money and you chose them instead of values instead of Poland, you're a slave. And I'll end with fragments of the poem by Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński: "Wake up - you're free, even if in the earth the spirit/walks around, wake up, you're free, just wake up. And if thou believest not, that thou art free, for thou art chained, thou shalt measure thyself (the bell), and thou shalt be a man's chisel, and thou shalt be caught in the hand by the time which is cursed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u512	Thank you. Member of the Commission, Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club recommends the adoption of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński as patron of 2021. Baczyński is the most famous poet of the Columbus generation, he is constantly read by young people - here we have to add this. His lyrics are used by artists. I hope that the establishment of this year will result in actions promoting reading poetry, that people will start reading poetry, because I have the impression that we are calling patrons of the year, but what was even said about Conrad is nothing to do with it. I'd like the patron of the year's notification to cause action, exhibitions, promotions of this character to really get to know what poets wrote, what they were, what they thought they were. Because I have the impression that in recent years these patrons of very noble, wonderful we have many, but nothing is going on. And I would like this year, these great patrons to be the beginning of a new approach for the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, the local governments to prepare programmes to promote these characters. Baczyński is known, known in Warsaw, is known among young people and I hope that this year, thanks to his patronage of the year, the dream of Warsaw's inhabitants, especially the Society of Friends of Warsaw, will come true, and a prepared Baczyński monument will be erected for years. Because there is already a monument to the insurgent soldier, the insurgent architect - there will be a monument to the insurgent poet, the artist. I hope that this will cause us to say in a year's time that such a monument is due to the desire of Warsaw's inhabitants, the councillors of Warsaw, to rise up. And in conclusion, because here everyone quotes poets, and I think that poetry is also mildness, subtlety and lyrics, I will remind you of a passage of Baczyński's poem, one verse: Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u514	Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u515	High Izbo! When I heard that next year was to be Baczyński's year, I was very happy because Baczyński is an interesting figure and it is difficult to really make him a pompous, bogo-born bore, but it turns out - I must say to Mr Kolożny - that you can try. You are making a rebellious poet of a polite student in a licked uniform that patriotic clichés, which is quite hilarious, given that Baczyński of his school, with its sharp hierarchy and nationalistic pomp, did not suffer. And I think if he was alive today, he'd have a lot of fun with Minister Black. You mention the patriotic upbringing - it is true, yes, it was patriotism, but I think it is very far from the sign of Solidarna Polska. Baczyński's father was an activist of the Polish Socialist Patria. His mother was an assimilated Jew. For the Nazis, people like him were subhumans. The ghetto threatened them, the death camps threatened them. And I have to say that ignoring this fact in a resolution commemorating a poet who died at the hands of the Nazis seems at least strange. First of all, however, Baczyński was a living man who made his own choices and it is worth respecting these elections. As far as views are concerned, he was to the left of anyone in this room because he was a revolutionary socialist. And as it didn't bother you on the right, the Columbus were a politically diverse group. We have proposed, it seems, an uncontroversial amendment to this resolution. Let me quote it: Baczyński saw the horror of fascism from his early youth. He opposed him, acting in the ranks of Spartacus and editing the anti-fascist writings of Shots. However, it turned out that for the state on the right side of the room this anti-fascist activity is somehow strangely embarrassing, disturbing. I'll leave it to you without comment. Of course, every character can be pushed into a god-fathered shampoo. You can pretend that Mickiewicz wasn't a socialist, you can pretend that Konopnicka wasn't a feminist, so you can probably pretend that Baczyński wasn't an anti-fascist. Baczyński is dead, so you won't get away with it, but the problem with such a neat story is quite basic. She's getting boring, indigestible, and maybe suitable for honorable academy, but nobody wants to listen to this academy. Who really wants to transfer the Polish heritage to the next generation, should show them in all diversity. Because Polish history is both this, as you would say, leftist Baczyński and boys in brown uniforms, for which the poet was not Polish and who wanted to send men like him to Madagascar. The Coalition Left Club will again submit this amendment. I think that instead of sticking the Hussarian wings to Baczynski, it is better to give him respect, reminding him of his views, about his activities, above all because, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that censoring resumes is a small thing, because whatever the High House would vote, Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński was a socialist and was an anti-fascist. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u516	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u517	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Polska presents the position of the club on the establishment of 2021 with the Year of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński. In 2021 the 100th anniversary of the birth of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, a representative of the tragic generation of Columbus, writers whose years of youth are fighting for the freedom of our homeland. The time of war is a time which defines their present reality, their everyday life from the sign of disaster and the apocalypse fulfilled. War reality did not allow them to enjoy youth, happiness, love, or other values. Instead of allegiance, they chose an uneven fight against the occupier. The Columbus were poets of action, they acted and proved the truth of their words in life. They saw the world of destruction, death, the fall of the old world, the breakdown of moral values, and so they were called the generation of the apocalypse fulfilled. The war determined their youth, took away their maturity, brought death. Most of them died during the Warsaw Uprising. The poet grew in the patriotic spirit of the performances of his father fighting in legions and grandfather, the January insurgent. Baczyński attended the Junior High School. Stefan Batory and wrote poems before he left this school. He was endowed with extraordinary art skills and planned to study at the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw to become an illustrator and graphic artist. He also thought about studying in France. The outbreak of World War II and the family tragedy, that is, the death of Father Krzysztof in July 1939, destroyed these plans forever. Like many of his friends, Baczyński was active in scouting and was a member of the sports club. During the war he studied Polish literature at the underground university. He was also associated with the Socialist Flame Group and the Road publishing house. However, the left-wing sympathies of the young poet significantly weakened after 17 September 1939, and eventually cooled down after the discovery of graves in Katyn in April 1943. Baczyński was heartbroken to active participation in armed operations, although the commanders were reluctant to risk the life of a well-known and valued poet, whom he was already in that period. He was involved in conspiracy activities and served in the battalion of Zośka and then Parasol. The poet in his timeless poems raises such topics as fidelity, love, and homeland. Baczyński is not afraid to show human fear of death, tragic choice and sacrifice his life for freedom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a moment, if I may, Marshal. The tragic death of a 23-year-old poet did not destroy his literary work. Baczyński reached maturity in such an amazingly fast way that his work is a sentence fully spoken and finished, it is a poetry of high and independent flight, although this flight lasted short. But to us who read his poetry will always be accompanied by this persistent yearning for all those poems he has not written. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I recommend this resolution to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u518	Thank you, Member. Four people signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. You are the first question to be asked by Mr Jacek Decoration, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u519	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that there is no need in this Chamber to discuss whether Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, a wonderful Polish patriot, had one or another view. First of all, he had a Polish heart and a Polish mind and was a patriot. He was a patriot and I particularly feel obliged, as one of the youngest Members in this term, to mention that he is a model for the young generation. It is very important that it is precisely the Sejm of the Republic of Poland that celebrates the good name, which bears witness to patriotism and dedication for the nation, for Poland, because the Warsaw Uprising, these tragic stories show how we still have to fight history today, because we are witnessing different interpretations of various historical facts, but the worst of all can be a lie. To win the truth, we must remind you that Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You can laugh, but you know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that as we read, e.g. Some reports, it turns out there were no Nazis, there weren't even any Germans. They were Nazis, they were Germans. I'm not discussing this with you. You want a hack from history... Time's up, sir. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński fought hatred and should be remembered as a Polish patriot. And you shouldn't be laughing right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u520	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! August 4 c.m. 16 Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński was killed by a German sniper bullet. If he hadn't been killed by this bullet, he probably would have been murdered by the Communists, just as his entire generation of Columbus was murdered. You are right, Mr Zandberg, yes, he was a man of the left, he was a man who belonged to a radical group of Spartacus before the war. It was a man who had left-wing views. But this resolution is about the fact that it was primarily a patriot and a Pole and gave his life for Poland. What I'm saying is that it was with the Columbus generation that a chance for a non-communist left died, the one that was missing. You have a great chance to create this left uncommunist. Unfortunately, you are in a club with people who were in the Polish United Workers' Party who are responsible for the death of thousands of Polish patriots. And your friend is Piotrowicz. I think that Mr Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, this great Polish patriot, should indeed be a model for you, a model of value. Thank you very much, sir. And I really encourage you to do that. Peterovich. Your poet is Peterovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u522	Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u523	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Method of establishing the year (s). Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński is a good example of what the discussion about our history and identity looks like. When the right hand tries to push its only right model of patriotism, I would like us to remember next year Baczyński as someone who hated the right hand, was a socialist, was an anti-fascist and a true patriot, someone who often did not listen to teachers, and became a patron of many schools who loved modern European culture and did not turn their backs on it, who had been ill since childhood and showed great courage at the time of trial. The history and works of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński are beautiful and inspiring, and above all he is part of our common culture. Let's remember that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u524	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Borys, and then Mr Zandberg, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u525	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This political dispute is not important, it is important that next year we celebrate the year of Kamil Baczyński, who was a patriot, the person who represented the pre-war generation of the Second Republic of Poland about left-wing views. Jewish mother. But this is the emanation of what really was the core of multiculturalism, and at the same time in a situation of danger, the test hour passed. He sacrificed his own life, his own creation, and what we are all unable to hear or read. If he were alive... This tragic generation of Columbus paid the highest price, gave it to the most precious - its life when it stood against evil. And I think we should celebrate this next year, showing the young people what they really are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] like the romantic attitude of the unrepentant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u526	Thank you very much, sir. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Zandberg. One minute. But I'm asking that this be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u527	Of course. High Izbo! Minister Kowalski asked to mention me and asked to mention the environment of the flames, putting them in contrast to the left which we are building today. As it happens, Minister, I have had the privilege of meeting people from this environment, people like Prof. Dunin-Wąsowicz, like Krystyna The whole. And if I were your environment, I would be adamant about what Krzysztof Kamil Baczynski would do or what he wouldn't do, because it was people from your environment, from the Republican League militia - I remember it today - Professor Dunin-Wąsowicz threw rocks at the first-movie demonstration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u528	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As an amendment to the draft resolution submitted was tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft after the text has been delivered to the Members. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on recognition of 2021 by Tadeusz Różewicz on the 100th anniversary of his birth (prints Nos 566 and 699). I ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u529	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice have already left. I'm amazed at their infantilism. Something shocking, unfortunately. The Sejm Committee unanimously accepted the proposal that 2021 be the Year of Tadeusz Różewicz. It was 24 to 0 for Tadeusz Różewicz. And I hope that this debate will also highlight the strength of his work. Happy is a nation that has a poet and does not walk in silence in its labors. Those were the words of Czesław Miłosz when he read one of the first texts of Różewicz, and this indicates that there may also be such a situation that artists who most often compete with each other who have a very difficult dialogue, sometimes more difficult than politicians or politicians... Miłosz recognized the size of the young man Tadeusz Różewicz. Miłosz and Różewicz shared the generation with the wrap, but they were both able to make a fantastic dialogue about who man is. Marshal, this is a report? After 1945, Różewicz asked: "Who is man? It's a report, isn't it? Same question at the same time, maybe a little bit later, they were asking Malraux, Camus, asking who we were after World War II. This question was asked by a German philosopher, a French philosopher, in a very drastic and fundamental way of European culture, who asked whether poetry was possible after Oświęcim. That philosopher was Adorno. Tadeusz Różewicz repeated this question twenty years later. He also asked how to practice poetry after Auschwitz. In other words, Różewicz asked how to practice poetry when a man kills a man when a man does not tolerate someone who has a different skin color, is another religion, has a different sexual sensitivity, otherwise he looks at the world. Tadeusz Różewicz asked all these questions in his work and they were fundamental questions. It was, it's a poet, because poets don't die, as you know, which was a denial of authority. Tadeusz Różewicz never wanted to be an authority and he was an authority in this everyday pop culture sense never was and never will be. We in Wrocław have a huge problem with Tadeusz Różewicz, because he forbids us to build a monument for ourselves, so perhaps there will come a moment that we will rebel against Tadeusz Różewicz, just as he rebelled against us, against society, against politicians and politicians. He did not often understand Różewicz's political narrative, but at the same time it was as if he was drawing juices for his work. I wanted to show you a drawing that Tadeusz Różewicz drew in 1930, was then 9 years old. We published it in the Theatre Notebook. This drawing was a very important narrative about childhood, because Tadeusz Różewicz was born in Radomsko, he also had brothers Stanisław Różewicz and Janusz, also a poet who was murdered during World War II by the Gestapo, was shot. Tadeusz Różewicz was of course a soldier of the Home Army, for which he was awarded. But Tadeusz Różewicz after World War II, asking about the meaning of existence, at the same time very much, almost essentially returned to history. One of his impossible texts, which never came up, was unwritten text, drama, perhaps it would be a tragedy, I don't know what form to take on this proposal - about Valerian Lukasinski. Różewicz spent his whole life writing a text about silence, about how he could [[♪ The bell ♪]] show the drama of silence. Różewicz never wrote that. I hope that you will allow me to read a text that is personally essential for this work, and probably for many of you - the Survivor. I'm twenty-four years old. Survived/ Carried to slaughter/ These are names empty and unambiguous/ Man and animal/ Love and hatred/ Enemy and friend/ Darkness and light/ Man as you kill like an animal/ I have seen/ Furgons of crazy people/ Who will not be saved// Conceptions are only words/ Virtue and vice/ Truth and lie/ Beauty and ugliness/ Manhood and cowardice/ However, weighs virtue and transgression/ I have seen/ Man who was one/ Excellent and virtuous// Looking for a teacher and master/ Let him restore my sight and speech/ Let him once again name things and concepts/ Let him separate the light from darkness. Survived/ Murdered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u530	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, as the first Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u531	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Tadeusz Różewicz, one of the most partisans, poet, playwright, screenwriter, satirist, prose writer and translator. He presented the trend of literary avant-garde, and his poetry was spoken of as expressive and catastrophic. He presented an extremely original way of writing, a kind of collage. One of the most frequently translated Polish authors, repeatedly mentioned as a candidate for the Nobel Prize. Różewicz's card is undoubtedly one of the most important dramas, one can say to this day about this song that it is a classic avant-garde. He was born in Radomsko. The city remembers this, where the Różewicz Open Festival, a great artistic event dedicated to Tadeusz Różewicz's works, as well as to the brothers Stanisław and Janusz, has been held since 2008. Festival supported by the Ministry of Culture. Then he snuck through a lot of cities. He slipped - I'm sorry to say so, but actually he lived in Czestochowa, Cracow, Gliwice and even Budapest for a short time, but for almost 50 years he joined Wrocław. First he lived on Gliniana Street, living on the ground floor, modest, poor, and this was the time when he really lived in poverty; then Januszowicka Street, a country from Wrocław, Lower Silesia you know, it is already near the South Park. Since I am from Wroclaw, I allow myself to have these wrought-up Wrocławs, because it was to the Southern Park that he devoted even a few words, a fragment of the poem in the poem, because it is such a title. I quote: "I wanted to describe/drop leaves/ in the southern park/ / five white swans/ standing on a foggy mirror/water// wanted to paint/ shaded/black chrysanthemums//. Różewicz liked Wrocław parks at all. After living in the vicinity of the South Park, he moved to Sępolno. He lived there for the rest of his life and was walking nearby, visiting... resting in Szczytnicki Park. He also liked the botanical garden and, interestingly, the zoological garden to which he also had close, and he also devoted a few words to this zoo in his work. Różewicz is undoubtedly the creator of disturbing and ambiguous, universal and timeless. And one more quote: He was a good man and a great poet, and I know nothing else about him. These are his wife's words when he died exposing such a pantheon at a museum in Wroclaw. May these words be an invitation for all states to learn as much as possible about the works of Różewicz. Of course, we recommend adopting this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u532	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u533	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes the great Polish literature devoted here today could be given a few meetings, so that it is a reason for satisfaction. I don't get into all the content. I'm just saying how much time we've spent here. Referring to the thread that has already appeared in this debate, I hope that, in line with what Minister Sellin promised at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, this time these patronages will find their culmination in the Ministry's programmes, that this time this will be the case. Because indeed we have all our patrons excellent, but these four: Lem, Norwid, Baczyński and Różewicz the ministry should probably notice. Coming back to this project: of course, there is a reason for quite a lot of satisfaction, as Mr Mieszkowski said, this is the Wrocław project and the Coalition project, so the Civic Coalition recommends and will support it wholeheartedly. I would like to point out that I am glad that this year will be here, because for my generation, for a generation even a little younger Tadeusz Różewicz was a character well known, he was a poet between generations. They aroused emotions, and discussions both his drama - it is said that he revolutionized the Polish drama of the 20th century. - as well as poetry, so ambiguous. I think that now, a few years after his death, Tadeusz Różewicz somehow died from the horizon, and I would very much like us to be able to restore him. There is a good arrangement for this meeting: we talked about Baczynski and the Columbus generation. Różewicz was told that he was a poet of a generation infected with the death of the tribe of Columbus, and he answered, "We?" I am the poet of a generation infected with life. We were graduating, we were studying for which there was no time during the war, we were rebuilding universities, we were a generation infected with life. I think that's a very interesting point of view. The tribe of Columbus also says, "What have we discovered? We discovered the alter ego of homo sapiens, but that's all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a character - he did not want monuments - worth not a monument, but worth reading, learning, learning. Because apart from being a fantastic poet, he was a very smart and good man. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u534	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Left would also very much like - I hope it will - to be the Year of Tadeusz Różewicz in 2021. I will not tell what my previous speaker said and said to the previous speaker, because these were very good and very accurate illustrations of the life of Różewicz and conclusions. I'm gonna do something for the first time that I've never done on this platform before: I'm gonna let some literature in, some poetry into this room, and sometimes we're gonna need it. I'm going to read a very up-to-date Różewicz's poem, in our time, a letter to the man-eaters: "Dear humane-eaters, don't look at the wolf/on the man/who asks for a seat/ In the railway compartment/ Understand/ Other people also have/ Two legs and a seat// Loved man-eaters/ Wait a minute/ Don't step on the weak/ Don't gnash on the teeth// Understand/ There's a lot/ there's gonna be more/ so move a little/ Step down/ Dear man-eaters/ Don't buy them all/ Candle, shoelaces and noodles/ Don't say backwards: / I'm mine/ My stomach my hair/ My print my pants/ My wife my children/ My opinion/ Dear man-eaters/ Let's not eat/ Well/ For we're not gonna rise/ Really. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u536	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u537	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Tadeusz Różewicz, whom we are discussing today, is a Wrocławian for nearly half his life. But above all, he was a poet who was painfully experienced by the Second World War, which he had partially spent in guerrilla forest troops, fought with a gun in his hand, closely watching suffering and death. And it was in such circumstances that he began his literary work seriously, on which the cruelty of war and the nonsense of killing made such a strong impression. Fortunately, this experience did not direct him towards passiveness like several other Polish artists, but led him to search for new forms of expression, creation of a new language of poetry and drama. In this way he contributed to the renewal of post-war Polish literature. Tadeusz Różewicz is not only a forerunner, an innovative creator, but also a brave poet. In his work he challenged the novels of the Polish People's Republic and openly mocked the official language, at that time full of communes, empty-headedness and mindless shampoo. This inspiring author introduced many avant-garde writing techniques into Polish literature and originally engaged in discussions with important currents in world literature, such as the theater of absurdity. No wonder his work was translated into 49 languages, and he himself became one of the most popular Polish authors in the world. No doubt he deserved the Nobel Prize for Literature. The Master was very pleased with all foreign editions of his works. Not because he was vain, but because he very much believed in transnational brotherhood, whose foundation he saw, among others. in reconciliation of old mortal enemies, including the Polish-German reconciliation. The physical manifestation of these beliefs was his sincere long-standing friendship with Günter Grass. He was very pleased with the construction of the European Community, but shortly before his death he felt what we are unfortunately witnessing today. For he predicted a serious crisis of values, the fall of authority and chaos in the world order we know. Looking at what is happening today both in international politics and in our Polish backyard, one can sadly say that master intuition and this time, unfortunately, has not failed. Let me finally, as a Wrocławian, recall the anecdote heard from Rafał Dutkiewicz, my friend and friend of the late poet. In one of the talks with the then president of Wrocław, Tadeusz Różewicz strongly opposed the construction of the posthumous monument, and especially if it were to take the form of a very popular so-called today. A bench where you can sit down with the person you're dedicated to. He argued: in my life, I choose my own company, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And on such a bench - will I have an influence on who will sit next to me? Such, ironic, infernally brilliant and with a sense of humor, was this extraordinary creator. Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives supports the resolution establishing 2021 Year of Tadeusz Różewicz and expresses great satisfaction that this is how the 100th anniversary of his birthday will be honored. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u538	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u539	I won't say anything about Różewicz. I will humbly acknowledge my incompetence in the field of Rosewiczology and, by the way, the gross incompetence of the whole of our House, or at least almost all of it, in this matter. However, I wanted to express my admiration for the fact that we have been sitting here for a few hours already on successive resolutions setting up patrons for the next calendar year, as if we really did not have any other worries; that when we lack time to think about laws that affect millions of people's lives, when committees have to be held at the same time when there is a plenary session, so that it is faster, faster, faster, faster, we do not bother to question who was already a great poet and who will be a great poet next year. No, because culture is very important too. Together with earlier discussions on the changes in university names - during which other speakers came out here to read, because who would remember this, the life stories of the patrons of Wikipedia - we had a whole block here, a huge block of meaningless debates that probably took place just so that we could learn about the new language invention of the Left, i.e. the matron - it's a female version of the patron, as if someone didn't know. So, okay, we had a little laugh over there, you know. But do we really have to discuss changing the name of the university at all? If the university asks for a name change, we change it. What's the point? Now, what's the big deal about this year, that year? There's only one year 2021. It will be the year of the Constitution of May 3, Różewicz, Lema, Wyszyński, Norwid and Baczyński. Not much? Why don't we get somebody else? What's the harm? It's 12 months, 365 days a year, it's a shame to waste such potential, isn't it? What the hell does it matter? It's nothing but an empty gesture. Nothing depends on it, nobody waits for it, nobody cares what our House has to say about the poetry of Różewicz, Baczyński, Lem's books or the achievements of Primate Wyszynski. If it is necessary for you to announce some years of memories, why should you debate all this? So everyone could say that Różewicz was a great poet? So politicians can reheat in the glow of other people's accomplishments? Or maybe try to politicize the case and squawk whether Różewicz was more, I don't know, from the Confederation or more from the Party together? Here Member of the King e.g. He did a remarkable work and tried to put Primate Wyszynski at the forefront of women's strikes. That's the kind of thing that's happened here. I really don't think it's a good idea for our humble House to get into the shoes of a poetry reviewer, a cultural expert, an arbitrageist of elegance, especially after what's been going on here lately. Let's leave things alone that don't depend on us or that we don't need for anything. Let's focus better on things that we often lack time here so that we don't run around with an empty wheelbarrow, because there's no time to load, and for example. They've separated the committee days from the plenary days. I hope that this completely unnecessary practice of speaking on all unnecessary topics will be abandoned in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u540	Thank you, sir. Maybe culture doesn't matter to you, and to the creators, and to what's going on, but to us in this room, to people today, it matters a lot. Many people and many backgrounds are waiting to commemorate these artists, so that they can just prepare programs, act. It's important to people. Also this. Such simple things about culture for people are also of great importance. Thank you. [[Applause]] In the procedure of correcting Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus. I wanted to be corrected, too. You called me, so I wanted to answer in corrigendum mode. You've already said everything. It's me. No, I'm sorry. Now Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think Zbigniew Libera said we'd be wild without culture. Do you understand? You wouldn't function, you wouldn't exist. Culture is in our DNA. Without the culture there would be no Poland to which you refer, there would be no us. So don't be so ignorant, because culture is us. Without that, Poland would not exist. Second thing. You're referring to the Left. The Left will always fight for women's rights, whether you like it or not. You can mock feminists, patrons and all the phrases that are feminine. But we're here. There are more of us than you. And whether you like it or not, the Left has always fought, fought and fought for women's rights, just like any other human being. You'll have to remember that. You've put yourself on the line here today, and I think your voters have, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u542	Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasińska. I'd like to be corrected. Wait, one at a time. Sir, you've caused a correction. You'll have to wait your turn. But these aren't corrections, they're polemics.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u543	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! There is also a cultural committee among those committees that you were so worried about that they were sitting at night. So, if you don't mind, on behalf of the bureau of this committee, I'd like to ask you to respect the work of this committee. Of course, you may have other interests, I don't get into it, I listen to you sometimes with interest. Please respect my interest and interest in much of this room. 'Cause I was talking about a poet, a playwright, about a world-class fame, about which the cultural committee unanimously, without seeing whether it's from the left or from the right or from the inside, your colleague. Also from the club, she agreed that it was a worthy patron. I'm asking you to respect our work. And let me tell you one more thing: if those who hold meetings of the Sejm, who decide this and who are the majority here, read more often Baczyński, Różewicz (Dzwonek) and Norwid, the work in this Sejm would certainly look better and different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u544	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, sir. But one word, really, because you've caused an avalanche, and we have to proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u545	It is precisely because I respect and value culture that I do not want politicians to own and discuss it, because you have nothing wise to add, at least mostly. Of course, there may be individuals, but as the House, we have nothing to say here. Politicians just destroy and politicize culture, they're not needed in it. The best culture was created away from politics and let it stay that way. It's not disrespectful at all. This is an expression of respect for culture. Thank you very much. Second thing: women. Most women don't vote left. Talking about women's rights in the left is just pure usurpation. Thank you very much, sir. Most women don't want such a lion's favor from you. You're just trying to start a sick gender war. I'm sorry, the previous speaker was out of time, and you don't give me a minute to say it. Oh, come on. So do not usurp women's rights, speaking on behalf of many women I know, and I refuse you to speak on behalf of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u546	Thank you very much. One person came to the question. Please, Mr Piotr Boris. One minute and we're done. I'm sorry, I'm still here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u547	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! If you're wasting your time, you don't have to take it away from others. This is the High Chamber, which recommends with its messages and resolutions, indicates quite important element: that culture in Poland is important. If we want to honor Tadeusz Różewicz's memory, please respect those who are the initiators. But what kind of committee is this when you're reading from Wikipedia? Especially when we are talking about one of the greatest authors of literary literature of the avant-garde, the person who showed with her attitude and life exactly the cross section of everything that took place during the Second Republic of Poland, because Tadeusz Różewicz was born in Radomsk exactly on the day when Józef Piłsudski came to him. He was closely associated with Gliwice, but the longest was with Wroclaw and Lower Silesia. He also loved Karpacz and many exhibitions, which were organized by the director of the sports museum at the time, showed the relationship between Tadeusz Różewicz and Dolny Śląskie (Dzwonek), and Karpacz, also with the creator of pantomime Wrocławska, Mr Henryk Tomaszewski. This resolution and commemoration for future generations are needed today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u548	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieszkowski. I understand you wanted to speak as rapporteur, right? I'll just have to correct it, then. You called me by name again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u549	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I am very satisfied with this debate on Tadeusz Różewicz. I think everyone who appreciates this work... I think that this work is also appreciated by Grzegorz Braun, son of Kazimierz Braun, who repeatedly directed the lyrics of Tadeusz Różewicz. I remember the excellent performance of the "Traps" at the Contemporary Theatre in Wroclaw or the "White Marriage." The whole debate can actually be held on this subject. I have such a small suggestion for you. Politicians have been excluded from culture for many years, they have been on the margins, they have not understood the role of culture. And today, when we're trying to restore the role of culture in our society, you're politicizing it, you're reducing it. However, I urge you to engage in a dialogue on culture, so that culture is very often discussed in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u550	Thank you. In the mode of correcting Mr Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u551	Mr Boris. I didn't say anything wrong about Mr. Różewicz. On the contrary. You didn't understand. First of all, I said I wouldn't say anything about Mr. Różewicz because I don't know anything about him. I respect my lack of competence, I admit my lack of competence, and I'm not trying to promote myself as an expert. As for culture, I've already said that. Culture is better when politicians stay away from it. I simply refuse you the right to promote the achievements of artists just to come out here and read their resumes taken from Wikipedia. We haven't achieved anything. What did we do for culture when we announced this? It's just an empty gesture to announce this year. It doesn't come from anything at all. We're wasting our time just so we don't know why we're reading resumes. None of this is coming to anybody. Neither culture nor us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u552	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I now declare a time-out. 9:30. Isn't there a point now? About an hour. 21.30 votes will be held and point 17 will be discussed after the votes. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 26 hours 21 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 426 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 190th anniversary of the November Uprising, print No 782. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 781. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 64 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 190th anniversary of the November Uprising (print No 782). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 190th anniversary of the outbreak of the November Uprising. On the night of 29 to 30 November 1830 members of the conspiracy of lieutenant Piotr Wysocki, established at the Podchorażych Piechota School in Warsaw, attacked Belvedere and then won Arsenal, supported by troops of the Polish army and the inhabitants of Warsaw. As a result of the fights and subsequent negotiations by the Interim Government, Russian troops were withdrawn from the capital with the hated Grand Duke Constantine. Warsaw was free. This is how the November Uprising began. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Polish soldiers who fought heroically against the Russian aggressor in battles near Stock, Wawr, Olszynka Grochowska, Białołęka, Dęb Wielki, Igania and Ostrołęka. We keep in mind generals and officers, leaders of the November Uprising, including Józef Chłopicki, Ignacy Prądzyński, Jan Skrzynecki, Józef Dwernicki, Józef Bem and Józef Sowiński. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors Members, Senators, members of the National Government, participants of guerrilla fights in the Kingdom of Poland and Lithuania and all those who, during the November Uprising, often dedicated their lives, served the Polish cause. On the 190th anniversary of the outbreak of the November Uprising, the largest military uprising in the period of partitions, the Polish Parliament expresses deep respect for its participants - our ancestors, great patriots seeking Poland's independence. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 190th anniversary of the outbreak of the November Uprising. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the change of the name of the University of Arts in Poznań. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 645. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 645, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on changing the name of the Art University in Poznań. We return to the consideration of item 59 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 756. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.756, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 443 - for, no one was against, held back 8. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw. With a formal proposal from Mr Robert Winnicki. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u553	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am requesting a recess and appealing here to your marshals to complete the agenda of this sitting for a resolution which I called for this morning. I called for this to be an initiative of all political groups in the Sejm - a resolution that refers to yesterday's scandalous decision in the resolution of the European Parliament. This resolution makes it clear that Parliament is not competent to evaluate the lawmaking in Poland or the judgments of Polish tribunals or courts in a non-orthodox manner. This resolution should be a clear, decisive voice of the Polish Parliament in a situation of serious assassination by Brussels on the Polish sovereignty. I thank the Members of Solidarna Polska for signing this motion for a resolution so that we could submit it a few hours ago. I'm bringing it in... Thank you very much, sir. ...to consider this resolution at this meeting of the Sejm (the bell). Non-regulatory proposal. You're welcome. Non-regulatory proposal. Thank you very much. We return to point 60 of the agenda: The Commission's report... Please, Your Marshal, to consider this resolution at this session of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u554	Mr President, this is irregular. We've talked about this before. We return to the consideration of item 60 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the change of the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 722. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 722, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 448 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on changing the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow. We would like to refer to item 54 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on an urgent government draft law amending the Act on a works concession or service contract and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 777-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u555	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Economic Committee, during which a draft law was adopted on the amendment of the Act on works or services concessions and certain other laws, which aim primarily to bring this right into line with the new Public Procurement Law which entered into force from 1 January next year. This law, first of all, brings the concession law into line with the contract law, brings conceptual issues into line. Secondly, it finally removes interpretational doubts. Thirdly, after consultation and following the conclusions of the joint government and local government committees, the rules on the so-called "laws' are repealed. Bagatil contracts, i.e. contracts with a value of between 50,000. and 130,000. zł. It also abolishes the prohibition on contracts for more than 4 years. The law was adopted and its rules, the provisions consume market expectations, the entities that join public procurement, have been widely consulted and today, during the committee meeting, it has gained once again the approval of the committee. Therefore, I ask the High House to present and submit a draft for further Parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u556	Thank you very much. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted in print No 777. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the title of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 223 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to add Article. 4a in the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 267 for, 132 against, 57 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 6 in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.77, along with the amendment adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 279 - for, 131 - against, 40 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on works concessions or services, the Law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws. We return to point 58 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: The additional committee report shall be in print No 778-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u557	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and on certain other laws and on the draft Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. High Izbo! At its 21st meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he again referred the draft law contained in print No 778 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 27 November 2020. The committee's report is in print No 778-A. After considering the three amendments tabled, the Commission recommends that the High House reject all amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u558	Thank you, Member. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 778. The Commission also presents minority proposals and the additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 and 1 of the minority proposal were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 4hb. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 238 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of Article. 4hb. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 210 for, 239 against, six stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 162 - for, 278 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 3 and 2 of the minority proposal were submitted to the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days of the article. 17a. In the third amendment, applicants shall propose that the prohibition referred to in Article be prohibited. 5, not applicable either in 2021. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 174 - for, 273 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 17a applicants propose to add paragraph. Two and three. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 89 - for, 240 - against, 123 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 778 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 444 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We would like to refer to item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 629. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 629 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 446 - for, 1 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Constitution 3 May. We would like to refer to item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2021 Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 630. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 630 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 387 for, 48 against, 16 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on establishing the year 2021 with the Year of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. We would like to refer to item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on: Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 631. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.631, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 447 - for, 1 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Stanisław Lem. We would like to return to the discussion of item 33 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2021 by Cyprian Kamil Norwid. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 632. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 632, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 450-- for, no one was against, hold off on 1. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2021 by the Year of Cyprian Kamil Norwid. We would like to return to the discussion of item 34 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 700. An amendment was tabled in the discussion. The Sejm decided to vote on the amendment without directing the draft resolution to the committee. The text of the amendment has been delivered to you and your fellow Members. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose the addition of a sentence in the second subparagraph. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 218 - for, 229 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.700 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 452 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 in the Year of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński. We return to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the recognition of 2021 Year of Tadeusz Różewicz on the 100th anniversary of his birth. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 699. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 699, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 452 - for, 1 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 in the Year of Tadeusz Różewicz on the 100th anniversary of his birth. We would like to return to the discussion of item 52 of the agenda: The report of the Health Committee on the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel. The additional committee report shall be in print No 776-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u559	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Health Committee on the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel, print No 763. Sejm at its 21st meeting on 27 November this year. in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 776 to the Committee on Health to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Health Committee, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 27 November, namely today, asks the High Sejm to accept all amendments in addition to amendments 6 and 8. In addition, it recommends that the amendments contained in points 1, 2, 5, 7, 13 and 16, 3 and 4; 9, 10, 15 and 17 be voted jointly. The Commission proposes that the High House adopt the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u560	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 776. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist add paragraph. 2b. Amendments 2, 5, 7, 13 and 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render the 6th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 5, 7, 13 and 16 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 227 for, 222 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25b Act on State Medical Rescue new wording paragraph. 1. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 280 - for, 163 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendment 6 has become unobtrusive. Amendments 8 and 9 were tabled in Article. 8 draft amending law containing amendments to the Health Information System Act. First of all, I will put Amendment 9 to the vote as moving forward. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 8th draft law. Amendments 10, 15 and 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 8th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 9, 10, 15 and 17 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 291 - for, 150 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 8th amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 11th amendment to the inserted article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 and 15 of the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions, the applicant proposes that these provisions also apply to a duplicate diploma. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 263 - for, 140 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the inserted article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 9 Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue applicants propose an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 263 for, 131 against, 58 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. The 22nd draft law proposes that the deadline referred to in that provision should be 14 days. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 439 - for, 14 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 776, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 216 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. We would like to return to the discussion of item 53 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government bill amending the act on combating doping in sport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 771. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 771, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 439 for, 6 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the act on combating doping in sport. We are returning to the review of item 55 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 761. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 761, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 413 - for, 34 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We return to the review of point 56 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 767. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 767 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 442 - for, 12 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Road Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 57 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 775. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 775 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, held back 6. The Sejm passed a law amending the grant law for certain entities. We are returning to the review of item 63 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. The additional committee report is in print No 759-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Pamula to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank law, print No. 718. The Sejm at its 21st meeting of 27 November 2020 pursuant to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 759 to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 27 November 2020, requests the adoption of four amendments: 3rd, 10th, 11th and 12th, and the rejection of the remaining amendments and the adoption of the law in full. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u562	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 759. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 9 were submitted to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the first amendment to Article. 7 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 29a applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 13. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose that a new wording be given. in Article 13, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 29a and lips. Article 19a 86. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 438 - for, 1 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 31a applicants shall propose an amendment to the added paragraph. 2b. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 - for, 235 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to delete the following Article. 42ha. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing Article. Article 111b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 219 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 3 (a). b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 219 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add an article. 2a in the draft amending act. The consequence of this amendment will be the amendment of the title of the law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 249 - for, 2 - against, 204 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 2b in the draft amending act. Amendment 12 is combined with this amendment. The consequence of this amendment will be the amendment of the title of the law. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 11 and 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 1 - against, with a hold of 218. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 12 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 759, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For -450, no one was against, two stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 61 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 781). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 781, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 441 - for, 3 - against, suspended 6. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 12 h 23 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws (print No 687). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Ms Anna Dalkowska, to present the justification for the bill. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u563	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws, contained in print No. 687, which I have the honour to present on behalf of the Government, contains regulations aimed at enabling the issuing of certificates in electronic form bearing electronic seals. Such a solution will facilitate the procedures for issuing certificates from the National Criminal Register as well as certificates issued by other public administrations. The main issue is, of course, the National Criminal Register. Secondly, the project envisages providing information by means of a network service to authorised entities, inter alia. courts, prosecutors and police, which will directly enable the use of information collected in the National Criminal Register in a synchronised and real-time manner. The aim of the project is to streamline and automate the process of providing information from the National Criminal Register. This objective is to be achieved, firstly, by introducing into the Code of Administrative Procedure the possibility for public administrations, including, as I mentioned, by the National Criminal Register, certificates in electronic form bearing a qualified electronic seal via the electronic system without human interference. Such automated provision of information will enable the applicant to obtain information from the KRK almost immediately after such a request has been made. Secondly, the aim of the project will be achieved by changing the way in which information is provided under the National Criminal Register Act by introducing a solution enabling legitimate entities such as courts, prosecutors, police, special services, obtaining information on demand via the provided network service, web service. The response to the request shall be given in a synchronous manner, i.e. without the participation of a KRK employee, using an electronic seal mechanism. The main reason for the project is the huge demand for information obtained from the National Criminal Register. About 3 million requests per year have been received from KRK for several years. However, the way information is provided has not changed in its assumptions since the creation of the National Criminal Register, i.e. since 2000, when the need for information from the KRK has been many times smaller. The new information solution is intended to provide a greater degree of automation for the processing of this information, inter alia. by providing a network service to specific operators. In order to obtain information from the KRK, these entities will not have to ask questions, but will be able to request such information from the KRK system by means of a specific application they already have at their disposal. On the basis of the request there will be automatic search and verification of the data. The response to the request shall be synchronously provided, i.e. without the participation of a KRK employee. At present, however, it is not possible to fully automate the process of providing such information, because information about a person or a collective entity, regardless of how it is provided, constitutes a certificate within the meaning of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which means that it must be signed in the current legal system by the person authorised by hand or electronically, depending on the form of the certificate chosen. Such a requirement significantly extends the procedure for issuing a certificate, which may adversely affect whether it affects the interests of eligible persons who must receive a certificate for the purpose of, for example, criminal proceedings, tendering, concession proceedings or employment of employees. As regards the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure in the form of the possibility of issuing an electronic document accompanied by this special qualified electronic stamp, such a document shall be treated in legal trade on an equal footing with a paper document bearing a handwritten signature or an electronic document bearing a qualified electronic signature. The difference in the proposed solution is how to provide the document with a mechanism to ensure its authenticity. The seal is broadcast not by man, but by the electronics system. Such a solution will also allow for an increase of staffing opportunities, in particular by allocating the staff of the National Criminal Register's Information Office to carry out other tasks. This in turn will result in faster information to other persons and entities. Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: Okay, well, maybe not in detail now, but I'm asking on behalf of the government, of course, to support the bill. It is compatible with European Union law. On the other hand, the funds to cover the costs resulting from the proposed law will come from the European Social Fund. Thank you very much, Marshal, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u564	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u565	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the government draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws contained in Seym Print No. 687. In general, the draft amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure concerns the issue of certificates. Certificates are needed by different persons and entities in many, many situations. We often meet with the need to present a certificate in matters relating to public procurement, but also for example. a certificate of non-criminality may be required from candidates for different posts for which the law requires no criminal record. Today, the certificate can be obtained in traditional form, i.e. paper form, but also electronically. Surely the electronic form improves the whole procedure, however, art. 217 §4 k.p.a. requires that such electronic certificate be accompanied by a qualified electronic signature. Let me repeat once again: a qualified electronic signature, which means always such a certificate must be signed by a person. Therefore, in the current legal state it is not possible to issue certificates fully automatically by public administrations, because in any case the certificate must be signed by a person authorised to do so. So if we have a paper certificate - it's handheld, and if we have it electronic - it's in the form of an electronic signature. That requirement, as the Minister said... But let us not repeat this again, Member. ... significantly extends the procedure for issuing these certificates. The proposed amendment is intended to improve this situation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This proposed amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure also concerns the Act on the National Criminal Register and the Act on the Processing of Criminal Information and is almost identical to the proposal which was made during the previous term of office of the Sejm. Then the Sejm examined the draft at first reading, then the committee adopted the report, but it failed to adopt it. It is therefore necessary to return to this law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I propose Law and Justice, I request that this project be directed to further work in the Committee on Changes in Codifications. Thank you very much, Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u566	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In place of the sick envoy Joanna Jaśkowiak - Joasiu, stay straight, health - I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws contained in print No 687. Because Mr. Marshal doesn't like repetition, and the time is late, I'm going to present the short version. The proposed changes seem to be, High Izbo, indicated, although confidence in all government projects and their authors has fallen almost to zero. There is therefore no shortage of questions that should be answered in the further process, such as: Will the services actually use the revised rules for, for example, faster proceedings? Further legislative work will also make it important to ensure that the proposed provisions are fully aligned with GDPR requirements. If such guarantees are available, we will adopt this law in mini-max mode: minimum unnecessary words, maximum good law. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition intends to support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u568	Thank you very much, sir, and congratulations on your excellent and concise speech. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u569	Yes, thank you very much. I see that the hasty Richard Terlecki has moved on, but I accept it with understanding and, Mr. Marshal, in a sense with gratitude, so without prolonging, I would like to say that the parliamentary club of the Left will support the request for this printing, the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure for the next reading. However, this is not the end of my speech, Mr. Marshal, because it seems that this bill is a bit unlucky because of not so much the time of the present procession, but the fact that there has already been an attempt to pass it in the previous term of office. However, it has not been adopted in the previous term, and the most important and interesting things are not included in this law itself, how much in response to the question why this issue of amending the Code of Administrative Procedure has not been taken into account in the Act on Electronic Service. The Minister was kind to say - and I ask you to clarify - that there are about 3 million questions. The explanatory memorandum refers to 1300 thousand. questions, of which an important part, i.e. 300,000 will not be covered by this law, this amendment. And that is precisely what the Minister, if I understand it correctly, will be the questions of entrepreneurs, i.e. individual questions. This is a great pity, because the Electronic Service Act, which I also had the honour of conducting on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, could, as a rule, be strengthened by this system, which provides for the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Either way, the law deserves support, because this 1 million cases that have been mentioned will be able to be dealt with and dealt with through the dialogue of ICT systems. If we wanted the Internet of things, assuming the register was a thing, that's where we're going. This is a good direction, it reduces the so-called. A bureaucratic mitre, which we should all care about. There is still a question of how to combine the Electronic Service Act and the whole system that this law introduces with what the government is proposing today, because here we see the biggest problem. This is a problem, this is a gap that might be worth patching up in further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u570	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - I understand - without Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u571	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland will be in favour of this project being further examined by the High House. Of course, as the previous speaker pointed out, it requires refinement, but, I think, it will be possible to work with common forces and a little openness from the Ministry of Justice. Without a doubt, the computerisation of procedures and the associated acceleration and improvement of the activities of the state administration should include further areas of state activity and be increasingly introduced. We are not doing this very well in Poland. Today's project will improve access to the National Criminal Register, which will have a positive impact on the time taken by courts, police and prosecutors. As we know, despite further attempts to amend, changes in the justice system, it is not always as we would like. The scale of this improvement is best reflected in the fact that every year, as the Minister pointed out, 3 million requests and requests for information, of which 80% It's coming from the courts, the D.A.'s office and the police. So that I think that as part of our further work, we will work together on this project and improve it together. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u572	Thank you very much, sir. We have Members of Parliament who have been asked questions. Mr Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition, asks Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk as the first question. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club. Me, Mr. Marshal, too, for the question. Oh, because I haven't closed the list of questions. That's what I'm shutting down right now. Of course, one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government project concerns the possibility of issuing electronic certificates bearing a qualified electronic stamp, which will significantly improve the procedures for issuing certificates from the National Criminal Register. However, I would like to ask the question: are those specialists who develop these technical issues the same ones who have developed the security of information systems for our remote seym meetings? It is necessary to recall the situation that former Members have received the data to log in to the deliberations. Of course, one can smile and say that accidents happen, while when we talk about sensitive data of citizens and citizens, in this case there can be no room for this kind of oversight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u574	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, also the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u575	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Part of the entities authorised to receive data from the KRK will be able to obtain them by means of the network service provided. This includes, first of all, reducing the number of queries to be handled by KRK Information Office staff, second, shortening the waiting time for information from KRK e.g. to the services. And here are specific questions about the system: When is the implementation of the system scheduled and how long will it take to test it? Secondly, how will the system affect better query handling? How much time will be reduced for waiting for the answer and obtaining information? Third, whether the system will be available 24 hours a day 7 days a week and what solutions are envisaged in situations such as: will it update or require a technical service? Will such updates or service make it more difficult for the services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u576	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill refers to the universal access of interested persons and at the same time entitled to electronic databases containing our data. Question: "Is our administration ready to face such a challenge?" Because not more than today, the Ministry of the Interior has reported the production of 10,000. e-personal evidence with incorrect data within the electronic layer. Several hundred of them have already been issued to citizens and operate in daily circulation. To put it simply, on the basis of such proof, Mr. Malinowski will be identified as Mr. Kowalski in electronic systems and can access all of Mr. Kowalski's data, including the most sensitive. What kind of citizen can be sure that his sensitive data will not go to other people, for example. health records or bank statements won't go to his neighbor? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u578	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u579	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a quick question. You mentioned that the whole system would be financed by the European Justice Fund, but I would still be very grateful for the estimated amount it will cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u580	Thank you very much. Member? No. Answers the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska, remotely. You're welcome, Minister. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u581	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out, first of all, that the full automation of the system assumes that it will be open 24 hours a day. The system is to operate in such a way that the information provided will be processed by the system and the relevant certificate bearing the qualified electronic stamp will be forwarded to the addressee. Then as far as this number is concerned, ok. 3 million, these are estimates that have been obtained in order, so to speak, to justify the proposed law. This is a number that is gradually growing from year to year. Of these 3 million questions, about 80% , as has already been pointed out here, these are questions from institutions, but to the rest - from individual and collective entities. As far as preparation time is concerned, it is difficult for me to give a binding answer right now. It depends on a lot of factors. Preliminary information that was provided says this is the newer half of next year. Objective assumptions are that this should be January next year, but I cannot indicate at this point the date of entry into force, for example because it is not known when the legislative process for this project will be completed. As far as resources are concerned, I'd like to correct that. The funding will come from the European Social Fund. At this point in time, I cannot indicate in a binding manner the amount that will be associated with its use. Of course, in the course of the legislative work, this information on the detailed answers to the questions will be provided. So, for this moment, thank you very much. If I can further clarify the answer in any way, then of course I am at my disposal. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u582	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws, contained in print No. 687, to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications for consideration. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 27 November. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. As the first Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement on the activist deserved for the municipality of Szubin and for the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Andrzej Wichłacz. On 19 November 2020, after a long illness, Andrzej Wwichłacz, a well-deserved social activist, a friend, left. Andrzej Wichłacz was born on 11 August 1949 in Szubina as the son of Franciszek and Stanisława from the house of Boruch. He was a native shubanian and grandson of the insurgent Józef Boruch. Therefore, in his family there were living traditions associated with this break of independence. This tradition is still cultivated by Zofia Drzewieck's granddaughter. Andrzej Wychłacz worked his entire professional life at the State Machinery Centre in Szubina and the Municipal Heat Energy Company in Bydgoszcz. Since 1979, he has been an opposition activist. He has worked in free trade unions since 1980. During the strike in August 1980, he collaborated with the Inter-Bodd Strajkovy Committee in Bydgoszcz and set up the same committee in Szubina with his colleagues. The MKS in Szubina then extended its range to the entire former district of Szubiński. After the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, the MKS became the Inter-Building Founding Committee, the founders of which were the two largest establishments in the municipality of Szubin: the Romet Bike Plant and the State Engineering Center. Andrzej Wichłacz was entrusted with the duties of Chairman of the MKZ in Szubina. During March events in Bydgoszcz in 1981, as a representative of the MKZ, he took part in talks and decisions taken by the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union of the Bydgoszcz region and at the NSZZ National Commission convention at the former railway rolling stock repair plant. In his martial law he did not give up his activities and collaborated with Fr. Jan Kątny and other oppositionists founded the pastoral ministry of people of work, whose purpose was to provide material assistance to families of interned activists of the Solidarity. In free Poland he continued his activities in the NSZZ.Solidarity, he was the chairman of the audit committee by four terms and a delegate to the general meeting of delegates at the National Heat Section commission. For his faithfulness to the ideals of Solidarity, he received in 2017 a medal of Solidarity: Deserved for the Bydgoszcz Region. He was a very modest man, after the ceremony at the Museum of the Szubińska Land, he said: This distinction is not for me, I think that all those who have passed the dark night of martial law deserved it. Andrzej Wwylach took an active part [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the cultural, social and political life of the municipality of Shubin. For many years he played and sang in music bands Karat and Apache. Always smiling, happy, sharing his talent with band members and audiences. He was Council of Seniors of the Municipality of Szubin in the term of office of 2015.2019, co-founder and long-term president of the Association of the Joint Municipality of Szubin. For many years he presided over the organization of Flag Day, thanks to him the celebration of 2 May in Szubina grew to the county rank and received support from the Marshal of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. He organized trips for members and sympathizers of the Association of Free Municipality of Szubin to Warsaw, Gdansk, Wrocław, planned the next: to Olsztyn, Vilnius. Mortal and long-term illness has interrupted life and social activity. For friends and friends he was a solid, honest partner and reliable support. We're gonna miss him so much. With gratitude for your friend and compassion for your family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u584	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. Two minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 19 November 1885 was born a gene. Kazimierz Sosnkowski, independence activist, Chief of Staff of the First Brigade of the Polish Legions, Minister of Military Affairs, Chief Commandant of the Armed Fighting Union, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State in the Government of the Republic of Poland in exile, Chief Leader of the Polish Armed Forces. His military and political activity dates back to the time of Józef Piłsudski. A long-standing relationship, a joint struggle for independence, the creation of the Strzelecki Union and a joint stay in Magdeburg detention have turned into friendship between these two outstanding personalities of Polish history. However, during the May bombing, Sosnkowski was unable to take a stand on either side, resulting in a suicide attempt by shooting himself in the chest. The general's hospitalization and recovery lasted over a year. After the outbreak of the First World War, Sosnkowski became Chief of Staff of the First Polish Legions Brigade. At the end of 1918, with the rank of Brigadier General in the uprising Polish Army, he commanded the General District of Warsaw. He mobilized a Polish military organization. He also became Deputy Minister of Military Affairs. A year later, he was briefly at the head of the reserve army. During the Polish-Bolshevik War he became Minister of Military Affairs, Member of the Council of State Defence and Commander of the District of Corps No. VII in Poznań. Before the outbreak of World War II, he became an officer of the armed forces, and after the outbreak he commanded the South Front. The failed attempt to connect the Army with the Army of Kraków and consequently the inability to organize the defence front caused Sosnkowski to recommend troops to enter Hungary. Sam made it to Budapest, and from there with the help of the Hungarians to France. The President of the Republic of Poland Władysław Raczkiewicz appointed him his successor. As Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State, he opposed the Sikorski-Majski Agreement. After Gen. Sikorski's death, he became chief leader of the Polish Armed Forces. In 1944, he was decommissioned and emigrated to Canada. Because of his anti-communist views, he was repeatedly denied a visa to the United Kingdom and America. It was thanks to Sosnkowski's emigration that the act of national unification was signed. Glory to his memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u586	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, the Gazeta Wyborcza has posted a dramatic letter from the doctor from Bydgoszcz, which I am presenting: Currently we doctors Family members stand on the front line in the fight against the pandemic. We investigate the diagnosis of infected patients and treat those with a lighter course. That's over 80%. patients with Coronavirus. We work in constant exposure and we get sick ourselves. We treat and try to save our patients at the expense of our own health. We're not asking much, we're just asking you to understand the medics, the doctors, the nurses, the paramedics. We're gonna do what we can, and we're definitely not gonna leave you patients. Dear Prime Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen, These are the doctors, nurses, rescuers, diaphragms, labists, X-ray technicians, sterilization technicians, rescuers, salons, kitchen staff, technical staff in hospitals, clinics and sick transport are today modern Polish heroes. These heroes deserve wage increases because they work under conditions of daily risk of infection and often beyond human strength. Blocking raises for doctors fighting a pandemic is simply stealing from Polish heroes by political elites who do not hesitate to give away millions of discopole celebrities. Missing hospital beds and ventilators can be bought, but a good and committed doctor, a good and committed nurse, medical staff dedicated to fighting COVID will no longer buy. I appeal once again from this point on to the Prime Minister to not block increases for health professionals fighting a pandemic, and politicians hating these heroes and this bill of remembrance. These modern heroes, medical personnel, are fighting for health and life - including your families and families - for your constituents. Prime Minister! Print the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-sejm-21-3.u588	That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned until 28 November 2020 at the latest. 13. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 57]]
