ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to convene the Seniors Convention, during a break, of course, in order to complete the agenda for a request to examine the responsibilities of individual members of the government for unnecessary or excessive paralyzing of social life, as well as the Polish economy, and perhaps the appointment of a committee of inquiry for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we've all been imitating a certain disease that was coming from the West, but it remains to examine, for example, whether or not we believe that people themselves can wear masks... Isn't the warrant caused by someone trying to make a deal for bringing in masks and stuff? Things. In my opinion, such a committee should be set up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u2	Thank you, sir. I understand it's a request for a recess. I am not calling a convention, sir, because it is my right. A formal request for a break has been filed. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 212 - for, 236 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Formal proposal, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Coalition Club of the Left filed a draft law on the abolition of the mandate. I therefore make a formal request to interrupt and convene the Seniors' Convention to include this proposal, this draft on the agenda of the next session of the Sejm, because this is about matters that concern all of us. A few weeks ago, here in the House, we said we had to impose mandates. Law and Justice, the applicants said that we would impose mandates on people without masks, but these mandates were imposed only on those who did not have the legitimacy of Law and Justice. What are you talking about? 15 million zlotys of mandates are expected to cover budget costs today. These are people who have no money and who have often been wrongly punished. This is a bill to show justice over political divisions. I would like to make a formal request and repeat my request: let us be equal Members of citizens and not Members above citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u4	Thank you. Mr President, you know very well that even yesterday at the Convention meeting you did not report this. It's coming back to him. It is therefore not on the agenda and we will not vote on it. One last proposal, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u5	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! I would like to ask the marshal to change the way he conducts his deliberations, to exercise the right that your marshal has, and to allow questions to be asked in this debate. Mr Czarnek, who was the rapporteur of the Senate Sejm, noticed the difference in the level of work between the Sejm and the Senate, which I am very pleased with. He said it was built on the Senate level. [[Applause]] Nothing prevents us from working the same way, i.e. Maybe not 30 or 25 days. The point is that every one of these amendments that the Senate has tabled to us is simply to present. The point is for the Member to be able to come out and say whether he is in favour of the amendment and why so that he can ask a question to this amendment and so that someone can answer that question. That's how you always worked in the Seym. I've been in the Seym since 2005 and that's always been the case. It's worth going back to. If Mr Czarnek saw in the Senate that this was possible, he spoke of an agreement, there is nothing to prevent it from happening in the Seym. I'm curious... If you are going to reject any amendments, even though they were, as Mr Czarnek said, the subject of a compromise, I would also like to know the argument here, from this speaker (the Ring) why you reject these amendments. Poles have a right to hear it. So, Mrs. Marshal, I'd be obliged if you'd allow me to ask you questions. With twenty-six amendments, it will not prolong our debate too much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u6	Thank you, sir. Mr President, I would like to draw attention to one thing. This isn't about making amendments, because they're all in the script, and you're gonna listen to it, it's gonna be read. Moreover, they were discussed both in the Seym and later in the Senate. But there may be questions. Yes, sir. Mr President, but questions for amendments, not the presentation and justification of amendments. Absolutely, what you've said is my intentions. Thank you. The Senate adopted a resolution on a law on special rules for the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. The Senate's resolution is 399. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of this resolution. I propose, on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, examination of the resolution without prior referral to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 16. of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Law on special rules for the organisation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence (print No 399). I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 1 of the Senate proposes inter alia. a change of the deadline for reporting the intention to vote in correspondence for voters subject to compulsory quarantine, isolation or isolation at home on the day of the vote. We'll proceed to the vote... Your Marshal, question for amendment. Mr President, there has been no notification. Let's go, let's go, let's go. The principal didn't answer the phone. Your marshal, if you let me ask you a question, I'll give it up. No, sir. Please sign up to ask questions to the secretary, okay? But I signed up, I called. You're welcome, sir. Mr Nitras, question. Everything can be agreed with me, no problem. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u7	Thank you anyway, Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur. The Senate rightly pointed out that there was a need for quarantined persons to take advantage of the possibility of voting in correspondence. This time is... It's so hard that someone could be in quarantine, for example. Two days before the vote. I would like to ask you: how the regulation planned by the Sejm, the regulation which the Senate is trying to improve, improves the legal situation of those who, at the last minute, for example. a day or two before the vote, will they be quarantined? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u8	Thank you, sir. Does the Member want to answer? There you go. Applicant, Mr Przemysław Czarnek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment first of all clarifies only one thing, namely that it is possible to vote in correspondence in the municipality in which it is included in the electoral register. This is above all the essence of this amendment. The rest of the honor is what it was, because it's in the mouth. Article 2 3 We have a clear provision for those who are in quarantine: the voter who has begun compulsory quarantine, the isolation in domestic conditions within the time limit set in the mouth. Point 1 (1) may declare the intention to vote in correspondence by the second day before the election day. And that rule remains.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u10	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 14 for, 432 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (2) of the Senate proposes to change the deadline for notifying the consul of the intention of a correspondence post abroad. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition, question. Excuse me, Mrs Fabisiak. Excuse me. There you go, Mrs Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The failure to accept this amendment will rule out the possibility of voting for the whole of Poland, because the record so far that the consulate must deliver the ballot cards six days before the elections, prevents everyone from taking part in the vote, because we have many such letters... The Commission has received dozens of letters saying that the letter goes from Madrid to Tenerife for more than two weeks. There will be no letter for six days, let alone an answer. This amendment is therefore necessary for these 60, 100 or 200 000. people, representatives of the Polish people who participate in the elections and who will be prevented if the Senate amendment is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u12	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 213 for, 237 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority... Excuse me. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. [[Applause]] In the third amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 4 The Senate proposes to extend the scope of the data to include the notification of the intention to vote in correspondence. But it's a good amendment for Polonia. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 1 for, 453 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 5 The Senate proposes changes to the data transmitted by the electoral body in the notification of the intention to vote in correspondence. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. For - 3, 451 - against, no one held back. The Senate amendment accepted. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 6 The Senate proposes that in the notification of the intention to vote in correspondence, the disabled voter in the country should also be able to request the delivery of the electoral package to the door of the premises whose address was indicated in the notification. Amendments 7 and 16 are combined with this amendment. I propose that the Sejm agree to the joint vote on amendments 5, 7 and 16. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I had a question. Question, Mrs Wanda Nowicka. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u13	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! This amendment on delivering the electoral package to the premises is, of course, good, but I would like to ask the applicant, what is the guarantee that blind or visually impaired people will be informed that they will have this right. Who knows what the scale of the problem is, how many people will need Using this opportunity? How can we ensure that all blind or visually impaired persons concerned are informed that they can exercise their right to vote? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u14	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Przemysław Czarnek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, there was no answer to the previous question, Mr Nitras. I have expressed my joy that at least some of the opposition senators in the Senate or this Senate majority... Answer the question. ...was able to rise above the political divisions and work with substance on what we proposed. I enjoyed it, not the way to process it. It's for Mr Nitras. Unfortunately, the amendment you applauded reduces the time of foreign voters to submit to the correspondence vote, because instead of the 12th day before the election day it will be the 15th day. There it was not, Mrs Fabisiak, I am talking to Mrs Fabisiak, about the 6th day, you were wrong to speak out of this speaker, and have misled the High House, which is why today those who are abroad will have 3 days less to report to the correspondence elections. Unfortunately, that's the situation. There is no substantive cooperation with you here in the Sejm, that must be seen now. You should have called a committee meeting. As far as blind people are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the bill will be announced in the Official Journal of the Laws in a moment... But it's your voices. ...and will be widely available to everyone. Because you've misled me. The blind will also be able to see that they have the right to demand this overlay. I don't see any problem here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] With this publication, sir, it can be different, you know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u16	We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5, 7 and 16 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. No one was for, 453 against, no one held back. The Senate's amendments accepted. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and 6 The Senate proposes a change in the procedure for the delivery of the electoral package. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 230 for, 223 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 The Senate proposes a change of term for the consul to send the electoral package to the voter. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 243 - for, 212 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 and 4 The Senate proposes changes in the field of international conduct in the absence of the possibility of personal receipt of the electoral package. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. I propose that the Sejm give its consent to the joint vote on Amendments 9 and 14. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, 451 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the Senate's amendments. Amendments 10, 17, 18, 22, 35 and 36. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. I propose that the Sejm give its consent to the joint vote on these amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Kropiwnicki has a question about legislative changes? No, no. We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10, 17, 18, 22, 35 and 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was against 454, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 Senate proposes among others. changes in the content recorded by the elector on the return envelope. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 2 for, 451 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2a Clarifying rules for voting in correspondence by an electoral body subject to compulsory quarantine or isolation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was for, 451 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate proposes to lay down rules for the installation of additional mailboxes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment in the following article. 10a The Senate proposes, among other things, that the vote be held without interruption at hours. 6:00 p.m., 10:00 p.m. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Question. Who's against it? Your Marshal, we can arrange anything with you. Who's holding back? Marshal, I've asked you a question. It wasn't intentional. 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 19th amendment to the article. 14 in the added mouth. 7a The Senate proposes to regulate the timing of electoral programmes. The question was asked by Barbara Nowack, the Civic Coalition. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles and Poles deserve the truth, they deserve a normal opportunity to find out what our candidates look like, what programs are, they deserve information deprived of political propaganda and they deserve information that will be able to present fully, clearly and calmly candidate programmes. That is why we were amazed to see the senators of the PiS held back in the Senate. We cordially urge you to extend this antenna time. The question is, aren't you scared, because sometimes we feel like the public media They're very afraid to show their candidates. Hence the lengthening of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u18	Thank you. He will answer Mr Przemysław Czarnek, the applicant. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We fear for you because we see fear in your eyes. Ha, ha, ha! This is indeed a unique country, the only one in the world where the main opposition group in the same election of the same year... [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's not the same election. ... He has two candidates, one of whom has the signatures collected, the other one doesn't have the signatures collected, and we don't know which one of them is going to run yet. That's why you want to extend air time in public media so that you can finally decide whether Mrs Kidawa-Błońska or Trzaskowski, or perhaps even Marshal Grodzki. No, ladies and gentlemen, the odds must be equal for everyone. Do you? Mr. President... And the fact that you're having chaos at home is all yours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What was it like with that fermentation plant in Krasnystaw? Wasn't there some kind of administrative decision to make something go away?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u20	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For - 231, 221 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment in the following article. 14a The Senate proposes to regulate the collection of signatures of support for candidates through the Electronic Platform for Public Administration Services. The question, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, is the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment 20 is extremely important. It is particularly important today. It assumes the possibility of collecting signatures of support for candidates through the Electronic Platform for Public Administration Services, ePUAP. This is important for several reasons. Firstly, for health reasons, because the collection of signatures today will be very difficult. We've already gathered. Exactly. Secondly, the collection of signatures will be improved as it will be possible to verify these signatures more quickly and this will facilitate the work of the State Election Commission responsible for this. The third argument, equally important, is also the security of personal data protection, because it is already a well-functioning platform and its use in the electoral process in these elections - I would also recommend a change in the future, so that signatures of support for candidates can be collected in this way in subsequent elections - it will be an expression of a modern state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u22	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 238 for, 215 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes that the activities referred to in this provision be undertaken by the Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the State Election Commission. The question is, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 21 concerns your marshal. The point is that your Marshal should set the electoral calendar and the deadlines for these electoral activities in agreement with the State Election Commission, not after consulting the State Election Commission. This is the first case. We believe that the PKW, despite the fact that you have violated its apoliticality, is the body which is legally responsible for conducting the elections. Ask about this skier. And the other thing. This amendment, Mrs Marshal, is closely linked to Amendment 26, which concerns the fact that it is the Minister of Health who can, by means of a regulation, identify those municipalities in which elections will only be conducted by means of a correspondence vote. We believe that in a situation where the Minister remains in a sharp shadow of fog as regards his credibility and conflicts of interest (Dzwonek), it is good that this decision should be taken by the PKW and not by Minister Szumowski. [[Applause]] It's not about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I just wanted to reassure you that I have really been communicating with the State Election Commission from the beginning, just like the Senate. So don't be afraid that I'll be doing something with the negative opinion of the State Election Commission. I'm still in agreement with the PKW. I'm so happy for you. So do I. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... But the Member wanted to answer. Uh, excuse me, excuse me, one more question. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For the last time today, I think we are discussing the role of the State Election Commission in this presidential election. I'd like to ask the applicant's representative. This is the last time we've had a chance to talk like this. Where, there will still be votes. Please tell the Poles and Poles honestly what is really behind the signature you have proposed and why I probably see it after the faces of Members of the Law and Justice - you will vote against the Senate's amendment... But which amendment? ...you'll want to reject the Senate amendment. So I would like to ask: How is it that you are so easily rid of the leading role of the State Election Commission? Your Marshal will only consult the PKW on the basis of the passed Sejm Act, and the Senate proposes to strengthen this cooperation by your Marshal with the State Election Commission. Your marshal, you give me those dates and that's it. And we encourage this to be in agreement, not in consultation. In agreement. These two constitutional bodies must work closely together.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u26	Thank you, sir. You will answer the applicant Przemysław Czarnek. We'd rather have your marshal answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You deny yourselves, although not Mr Smishek, because he did not pass the electoral code. The wording: the opinion of the State Election Commission is a code phrase. There's nothing new about this recipe. I do not know why you are so afraid of the excellent cooperation of Marshal Elizabeth Witek and the State Election Commission. This cooperation is working out perfectly and there is nothing to be afraid of, sir. As for Mr Szczerby's question, we will move on to this amendment. I think there'll be a lot of questions. And I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen, what we've worked out with some senators who wanted to work in substance once a week for two hours, only all the time, will actually be a nice surprise for you. [[Applause]] When are we gonna get back to her, how are we gonna turn her down? How do we get back to her?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u28	Thank you, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 235-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes that the deadline for submitting the presidential candidate should not be earlier than the 10th day following the publication of the election order. The question is, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we're in a special moment, and we all know that. Your marshal has been given a very broad authority to determine electoral activities. We'd love to believe you very much, but most of all, we'd believe you if you'd just published this calendar. There's nothing to prevent you from saying there's gonna be so much and so many days to do things. The voters of Rafał Trzaskowski want to know how much time they will have to collect signatures. But not yet... I mean, you guys already have a collection. This amendment clearly states that the time to collect signatures should be included in the calendar, because that is what the constitution says. Art. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 clearly states: the rules and procedures for submitting candidates are laid down by the law, not by the Marshal's decree. The bill also tells you when to collect. Thus, the provision notified in this amendment of the Senate is as much as possible fulfilling constitutional capacity. And who should know, but Mr Czarnek should know that the deadline for submitting candidates is precisely [[♪ The bell ♪]] the procedure for submitting candidates. It should be in the bill. Please accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u30	Thank you, sir. Please answer Mr Przemysław Czarnek, the applicant. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I know that, sir, and that is exactly what our law sets out. On the other hand, you are afraid that you will not have time to collect signatures for a possible new candidate, if part of the Platform finally backs Trzaskowski, because now you are collecting signatures in the corners, in the bushes, somewhere secretly, completely illegally. Nobody's picking. You are the rapporteur. The TVP Info collects. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on May 13th, the bill went to the Senate. You've kept her in the Senate for almost 20 days since May 13. The joint senate committees have been working nonstop... Publication of a resolution... ... 3 hours of one day with a break of 5 days for rest, 2 hours the next day with a break of 5 days for another rest and 2 hours for the last day. If you had passed this bill two weeks ago, you wouldn't have 10 days to collect signatures or even 20 days, but you didn't want it. You guys were chaos last week. You tried to throw those elections out in the fall because you're obviously afraid of them now, June. Fortunately, you've pulled out of this chaos, and that's why you won't have a day or two to collect signatures, just a few. Don't worry. [[Applause]] How much?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u32	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 24th amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate proposes that the resolution referred to in this provision be adopted by the Supreme Court within 16 days of the date on which the outcome of the election was made public by the State Election Commission. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By rejecting the last three amendments, you've actually shown, and I'm addressing the majority of the parliament, which is what you're talking about. You don't want equal choices, you don't want equal opportunities. You want to manipulate these elections all the time, limit the possibility for opposition candidates to campaign. Ooh... Mr Black! Beautiful words, as you whispered here, how much time we would have, but by rejecting that amendment, you showed one big thing: you showed gigantic fear. You're afraid of Rafał Trzaskowski... Ha, ha, ha! ...because you're afraid he's gonna send your president back from the President's Palace, [[Applause]] That white flag is finally going to disappear. Ooh... You're very afraid of it. You're laughing now, but I have to say, you're gonna cry about it, you're gonna cry about it. How are you gonna change the candidate again? Mr... Mr President, don't scare me. You were supposed to ask a question. Mr President, we are here to ask questions. You're very scared. You're very scared. And I have some bad news for you: it's very good that you're scared because you're gonna lose this election because you're gonna coddle with them. [[Applause]] Shh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u34	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? That's how they laugh, and that's how he laughed. 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 218 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes that a change in the deadline for electoral activities should not apply to the appointment of a presidential candidate. The question is, Mrs. Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All we had to do was let the questions and, in particular, the answers of the applicant, and we find out very interesting things. At first we learned that the blind and the visually impaired will be able to read the Official Journal immediately after its publication and from here they will know what their electoral rights are. [[Applause]] Secondly, one must finally decide what is a substantive job and what is an obstruction. The applicant praised the substantive work in the Senate and at the same time talked about keeping the bill in the Senate. You have to make up your mind. At the same time, he talked about the fact that there was no substantive work in the Sejm. Well, I guess your job, the applicants, because on one day there were three readings, without a fair debate. And you think... So your Members of the applicant who, in the privacy of the cabinet, fried this bill, didn't do a substantial job. That's why we have such a problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In such a situation, the masks drop... What's the question? Thank you, Member. There was no question. ...and find out what's really going on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President, but there was no question. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. No one was for, 457 against, no one held back. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 The Senate proposes that the State Election Commission should be able to vote only in correspondence within the commune or part of the commune. Amendment 27 is combined with this amendment. I propose that the Sejm give its consent to the joint vote on amendments 26 and 27. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Question, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is probably one of the most important amendments. Indeed, as Mr Czarnek said, the Senate has been able to reach an agreement on certain matters. It seems that what the Sejm has adopted, i.e. the regulation that allows one politician to influence the electoral mode - I am abstracting from Minister Szumowski and his current problems, that is not the point, but one politician can shape the election mode by decision - it is not a good idea. You guys are gonna have problems. What the Senate has proposed allows the health minister to initiate this process, but leaves it in the hands of the State Election Commission. I call on the parliamentary majority to take this amendment seriously and accept it. If this stays in the State Election Commission and if your marshal is so kind and today in this Chamber he will give the most important dates, i.e. When he's going to announce the election... And what else? ...what time it will be for the candidate to come forward, we can really get out of here in an atmosphere of understanding and awareness (the bell) that we want to conduct these elections honestly. Thank you very much. The atmosphere can be good, but we all like the atmosphere, don't we? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u38	Thank you very much, sir. There you go, Mr Artur Dziambor, the Confederation, the question about this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u39	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! While we're working on this amendment... [[Game in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please do not disturb the Member. May I? It's me again. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As we proceed on this amendment, we must consider whether Minister Szumowski will have good days or bad days. When he had a good day, he said that these masks weren't really helping anything, but when he had a bad day, he told all Poles to wear these masks. When he had a good day, he let us go for a walk in the woods, and when he had a bad day, he said that you can't walk in the woods because that's where the germs are. Ha, ha, ha! When he had a good day, he voted in favour of the traditional election, and when he had a bad day, he said that the nearest safe elections for our health could only take place in two years. That's not true. So you will have to consider whether Minister Szumowski will have bad days or good days, because he will make such a recommendation. My basic question is: First, is this recommendation of the Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does it have to be done? And secondly, can you imagine that your marshal... Mr President, finish up. ...you're going to have to say your polling committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u40	Thank you, sir. The last question, before I give the floor to the applicant, will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, but tonight, let's have a really honest conversation. Tonight's finally gonna be honest. I have a question for Mr Czarnek: Which cities do you want to exclude from the traditional vote? Wroclaw, Szczecin, Gorzów, Poznań? Berlin. All those that are progressive, pro-European and do not vote for the PiS. Tell them the inhabitants of whose cities you want to deprive the municipalities of the right to vote, to impose a correspondence vote on them to increase their performance. Please answer me. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u42	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Czarnek answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To Mr Dziambor: your preferred model seems to be the Swedish model. There, the Minister of Health is absolutely in a good mood all the time. Only there are thousands of dead, sir, and with us there are many times fewer than in Sweden. And they'll be here. So let us pray that Minister Szumowski is in a bad mood all the time, then in fact Poles will be able to walk safely on the roads without getting infected with the coronavirus, as it is now in Poland. Łukasz Szumowski just saved Poles from the coronavirus, [[Applause]] And if you want Sweden, the road to Sweden is open. At the moment there are fewer dead in Sweden than in Poland. And Mr Smishek, ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Speaker! We're with you at two different poles in the world, but I really treat you like a serious man and a lawyer. After all, you are reading this amendment and these regulations. After all, the rules, also in this original legal version, make it clear that if the Minister of Health sees an outbreak in a particular municipality, so that residents will not be able to go to the district election boards, then... You're saying you don't want them to vote in correspondence? No. I want her to decide... Well, Mr Smishek, we really do work on this speaker for voters, for Poles, not for applause. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u44	Thank you, sir. We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 26 and 27 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? And what was all this for? Just to do something. We fought it out. Yeah, yeah, just stay in that consciousness, Mr. President. You didn't say you were behind this. No, no, there was a saying that there would be a surprise. 454 Members voted. Two for, 452 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 28th Senate amendment in the following article. 16a proposes to lay down rules for the provision of personal protective equipment for the district seat of the electoral commission in relation to the eradication of the COVID-19 epidemic. Question, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! It so happens that COVID-19, as far as the financial side is concerned, was severe not only for you, not only for entrepreneurs, but also for local governments. It therefore seems quite logical that if we impose an obligation on local governments to provide security measures at the headquarters of the committee, this should be a commission, which means that funding should follow. At the moment, the municipalities are going through a very different pandemic, and these influences are falling very differently. Especially for smaller municipalities, which are financially weaker at all, the need to provide protection measures can be a real problem. That's why I wanted to ask you if you were considering financing protection measures for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u46	Thank you, Member. Mr Czarnek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In short: it is obvious that municipalities cannot take on this burden. The Ministry of Health will provide the necessary personal protective equipment for all members of the regional electoral committees... Oh, it's going to happen in Zakopane. ...and people working in regional election committees. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u48	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. For - 230, 224 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 29th amendment of the Senate in the following article. 16b proposes regulation on how to provide the competent municipal authority with information on the voters subject to quarantine or isolation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 1 for, 455 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes changes in the composition of the Regional Election Commission. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I draw attention to the validity of this amendment. Today, you wish - in this form the law came out of the Sejm - to propose only three members of the committee. No. No, that's not true. That would be an absolute mistake. Today, the Senate in its amendment states that the minimum composition, Mr President, is five. I'm overlooking the fact that the committees are supposed to be working from now on. 6 to 6 a.m. 22. No, I've been here for hours. 7 to 6 p.m. 21. Votes should also be counted. Where's the secret when someone goes to the bathroom if the minimum membership of the circuit board is three people? That's one thing. The second thing, ladies and gentlemen, is a good Senate amendment indicating the possibility of placing the so-called. a self-government employee seconded by the governor, mayor or president. Today, peripheral committees in schools often have a problem. Nobody wants to open these schools, watch the buildings, if there's no way to get a salary, a diet for sitting on the election committee. Yeah, yeah, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I propose to accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u50	Thank you, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left, will ask a question about this amendment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u51	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Amendment 30., which increases the minimum membership of the electoral committees from three to five, is extremely legitimate. That is why the Member has a question. Let us remember that these are extremely difficult choices, and you are reducing the number of members of the committee. In fact, there is no way to guarantee pluralism in these elections if the minimum membership is three. The Member has never seen... the next election. The most difficult are self-government. Secondly, such a limited composition does not guarantee the good conduct of these elections. What do you really mean? After all, such an effective and large party may be able to make personal storage at least, say, half the way they used to be in the bill within a month. The Commission could have had up to a dozen members. The Left (The Bell) has no problem with... Thank you, Member. ...fill to send... Nine always. Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Black to answer this question. Mrs... Time, time. Mr Wand Nowick; Okay, just one more sentence. So, I'm really asking you to explain why you want so few people on the committee. You have already explained. Mr Wand Nowick; It really makes you think there's no pure intention here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u52	Thank you, Mr Czarnek will explain. Please listen, Member, because this will be an important explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using the words of Pawlak's movie: What do they say, huh? In Polish, sir, in Polish. Minimum or exclusive? You started lying to the Poles in this pulpit that it would only be three people. Then you got better under the influence of our reaction, but it's a minimum number. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good for all of Poland to also learn what the obstruction of the elections of May 10 was and how the Civic Platform blocked this vote. [[Applause]] The number of candidates for the regional electoral committees submitted by Andrzej Duda committee is 34 thousand. How much did Margaret Kidawa-Błońska report? Less than 400. More than 100 times less. [[Applause]] You are the rapporteur. Ooh... Not one. I'm gonna want a corrigendum. And so that you don't bring down the circuit boards again, because they have to work, we propose a minimum composition: three people. And if you submit candidates - I do not know whether Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska or Trzaskowski or Grodzki - then they will indeed be full members of the committee. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! The point is not to block the vote again and give Poles the freedom to choose the President of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u54	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. That's a corrigendum. You're welcome, Marshal. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u55	Mr. Speaker! You're an envoy, an applicant, so I'd like you to play this role, first of all. [[Applause]] Secondly, I did not want the election on May 10, because it would be dangerous for Poles, and your envelope form - dishonest. [[Applause]] That's what we've heard. We've heard that before. You have a problem with that, and you can't create a good law, but I'm asking you to respect the rules. You're the rapporteur, you want to talk about politics, you should take the floor in your questions. You are responsible for the quality of the bill and for the translation of points. And that's your job. [[Applause]] Oh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u56	Thank you. I heard that Mr Czarnek explained the problem. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, 223 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 31st amendment to Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes a change in the procedure for connecting voting circuits. We'll proceed with the vote. Excuse me, question. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a rule, the organisation of democratic, constitutional elections should be in the hands of depoliticised PKW and local governments. Meanwhile, the politician... Upo... You've politicized. ...politicized... Very well, you understand. ...all the authorities that decide and co-decide on the elections, to the maximum, and in the Seym version of today's project, the elections were in the hands of the Minister of Health together, with all due respect, with the marshal. Therefore, Amendment 31. The Senate is a good amendment because it brings back co-decision, e.g. about the merger of the electoral circuitry, the local government, in this case, the wojites. So if you want constitutional elections, just like you did today, even in the Senate, you assured, and you don't fight the local governments, as you assure us, will you support this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u58	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 32nd amendment in the following article. 19a The Senate proposes to regulate the rules for the transmission of voting protocols. Question, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u59	Thank you, Marshal. This is an amendment that talks about the protocols of the regional electoral committees. I have a question because the bill doesn't really specify it. This law excludes the provisions of the electoral code which refer to the sealing of ballot cards with the seals of the State Election Commission and the Regional Election Commission. This is extremely important, because verification of the validity of the cards in the urn is carried out on this basis. If the card isn't sealed, someone can throw in the card. These stamps are proof that these are real cards. Since the Act excludes those provisions of the Code which speak of sealing the cards, I would like to ask Mr Czarnek whether I am analysing the experiences, because the Sasin cards, I apologize for this shortcut, had printed seals - with which we will vote, will there be some stamps stating whether they are possible to verify the authenticity of these cards, while at the same time preventing the insertion of e.g. By someone's card to the urn. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that's an important question and it needs answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u60	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Przemysław Czarnek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you see, sometimes, from time to time, there will also be a substantive question. Thank you so much for those. We'll wait and see if there's an answer. The answer will happen, too. You have rightly pointed out, but this is a question for the State Election Commission, which you have rightly praised here as the one that will make an excellent election, and that will be so. Sasin did it better. The State Election Commission sets out the model for the ballot card and the State Election Commission will also set out to secure these ballot cards so that there is no situation that you have spoken of, because it is indeed important to secure the ballots. [[Applause]] I asked a simple question and I would like to correct...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u62	But, sir, there's no... The corrigendum, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u63	Mr. Speaker! Thank you for appreciating the quality of my question. I would also like to appreciate the quality of your answer. [[Applause]] That would be the question, you are right, to the State Election Commission, if you, that is, the parliamentary majority, had the Sejm not deleted the entry in the electoral code law, which clearly states that these seals must be. If the Sejm had not crossed it out, it would have been known that these seals were, but today we have such a situation that the Sejm had crossed it out. State Election Commission, PKW. The Seym crossed it out. And that's why I have a question: What guarantees do we have that these cards will actually be fair, that they will be counted, that they will be sealed, and that they will differ from cards that someone can, for example. Do you want me to drop it off?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u64	Thank you. Once again, Mr Czarnek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Once again, I'm giving you a substantive answer. The guarantees are that the State Election Commission, which you rightly praised for its actions, we, too, praise it, which conducts these elections, which, contrary to what you said, carried out those also, will determine the model of the ballot and security on these cards according to the competences it has under this law. Since we believe, Mr President, the State Election Commission, and we all come to this conclusion here, let us also believe that the PKW will properly secure these cards so that there is no real counterfeiting of this. [[Applause]] You shouldn't have removed that record.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u66	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, 451 against, no one stopped. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. 20 The Senate proposes to allow the possibility of training for members of regional electoral committees in a form other than remote ones. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Coalition, question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very good amendment, which allows for remote training, but I also do not hide the fact that all the time I am concerned about what Mr Czarnek was talking about when it comes to personal protection measures that would be passed on to the wards, because there is such a danger that funds will be transferred to them by the Ministry of Health and through the central reserve base. You learn from Mr Nitras and ask the substantive questions. As we all know, it was particularly expensive equipment, because the cavities were bought for 48 PLN, I am talking about this ski and oscypski company. [[Applause]] Despite this, ladies and gentlemen, that they were hatches purchased in Podkarpacie, earlier in Rzeszów, the puncture was three times. I would like to be sure that these expensive cavities will not be delivered to the electoral commission. I'd also like to ask... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. That is not the question about this point, as you have noted. Thank you therefore, sir. That's the question, Marshal, because you rejected the amendment... Mr President, finish up. ...who treated the transfer of personal protective equipment as a task commissioned by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u68	No, this is not for this point, Mr President, which concerns the training of regional electoral committees carried out remotely. You know that very well, sir. Mr Braun, question. Mr, to Amendment 33, I understand, yes? Yes, Your Marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u69	God bless you! Honourable Mrs. Marshal! The audience doesn't see it, and they won't show it to the camera, but the room is shocked by such postcards that raise the regulation of access to it by the honorable marshal. The question is, of course, when are you gonna stop? When will you stop restricting access to this room chosen by the people of the Members of the Polish Parliament? Just the two of you today. I take the opportunity to encourage the people, our voters, to be interested in the citizens' movement Watch the Elections. Please come to the site, download the application, watch these elections, because the procedure is tortoise-temp, but it finally reaches the finish line. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now it's time to watch the elections - www. Keep an eye on wyborow.pl.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u70	Thank you, sir. Of course not on the subject and not on this amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against 450, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 34th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes amendments concerning the re-use of voting packages printed before the date of entry into force of the Act. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u71	Mrs. Marshal! This bill is a confession to the great failure of your environment. You have brought the biggest constitutional crisis to Poland in the last 30 years. There was no such drama. Who's responsible for this? Grodzki. Decide whether the president himself, whether the president with Gowin and Mr Ziobra, or the incompetent Sasin, or the Civic Coalition. You don't know who. I'll tell you who's responsible. You. Your inability. It was your mess that caused it. That's why we're in such a tragic place. Your incompetence has caused us not to know when the elections will be. We've had enough of that power. We're sick of this mess. We've had enough of your bullshit. We want fair elections because the elections are for Poles to choose an honest president to choose a president they trust, not to pursue your political tricks. You guys want to do everything at the green table. We've had enough of that power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Your marshal, that wasn't a question. I'm asking Mr. Black not to answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u72	Yes, sir, you should know what the question means. This is not the time for such speeches. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. President, how about at the end? There are two more questions. Okay? Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski... Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out: these are questions, this is the last amendment. I would ask you very much, sir, to ask about the amendment. I'll try. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unlike a fellow Member, the Left is pleased that we are coming to the end. We are very pleased that we are coming to the end of this legislative process, because how much can we talk about the elections that we ridiculed on 10 May. I don't know if President Kaczyński knows, but I wanted to let him know what's going on in the Presidential Palace, in the bigger palace they're talking about today. President Duda has announced that there will be a pond in every house. If we march this way, there'll be a bag of gold in every house soon, and then 100 million. The president knows how it ends, how it's announced 100 million. Mrs. Marshal! The question is, you asked for a question. You're the one who asked for the question. When will your marshal announce the election? I appeal to your marshals so that no later than tomorrow, all of Poland will know when elections are to be made and what is the electoral calendar. This is a substantive and serious question, Your Marshal, for you in the last amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u74	Mr President, you know very well when I can announce elections, so don't get so excited. There's time for that. We have not yet adopted the bill, it is not yet signed by the President, it is not published in the Official Journal of the Laws, it is not reviewed by the PKW... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And when will the Prime Minister publish? ...so, sir, just a moment of patience. One last question... Ladies and gentlemen, shall we scream? So the Prime Minister can tell us when he's going to publish. There you go, last question before the last vote, Mr Braun. I hope it's a question this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u75	Continuing the disbanded thread, hundreds of such cards were placed on our seats. I'm gonna use this card to turn to our countrymen again. Before you put up this stamp... Malcolm X. ...in the grate next to the name of Krzysztof Bosak, [[Joy in the Chamber]] the best candidate for President of the Republic of Poland... Think about it three times. ...before you do, go to the website. watchwyborow.pl, www. Keep an eye on the election and keep an eye on the election. Your Marshal... Watch, do not sleep, lest you be stolen, dear fellow countrymen, because here, once in a while, there is an alliance between divisions, an alliance over the troughs... Confederations with the Platform. ...once in a while this political wrestling takes place between one side and the other of this room, but choose a way out of this arrangement. Thank you, sir, that was not a question. It's not an election rally, we're in the Seym. And the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u76	That's it. It's been a while. Mr Czarnek. Please answer these questions... Actually, I think it's one thing. Don't let him answer, 'cause why? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I to Mr Kropiwnicki, as if you could listen for a moment. I know that Mr Kropiwnicki is from this faction of Schetin, who does not support Budka, and therefore does not support Trzaskowski, but you could listen to the candidate who, in his first speech... They missed again. ...at the press conference he said directly: It was us - he said - local government officials from Warsaw, from Poznań, we did not allow the vote on May 10th. [[Applause]] If you're a platform specialist like the law, sit down. So any claim that you ridicule Poland, you have to have it to yourself, and this bill is the answer to that. We pressed you against the wall, hence you released her from the Senate faster and the elections will take place because Poles need freedom, free choice and democracy that you took away from them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-sejm-12-3.u78	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 404, 49 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on special rules for the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 2 June this year. The meeting shall be adjourned until 4 June 2020 at the latest. 15. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 28]]
