ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Foreign Affairs - hour 9, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 10:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u2	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to continue the 10th session of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mr Waldemar Andzel's first question from the Law and Justice Club. Formal requests, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, maybe after this point, because we're not gonna be here right now... The formal motion was filed before Mr. Marshal took his place. I know, but we're not voting on formal proposals right now. Formal motion, please. You're welcome to introduce me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u3	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A request for a break in order to hold a meeting of the Sejm Bureau to draw conclusions from yesterday's outrageous behaviour of members of the Sejm Bureau who have abused their powers and who have not fulfilled their responsibilities before the Sejm takes up work. It is high time we met at meetings of the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union or dragged the courts, Mr. Marshal, to put an end to these manifestations of brutal profanity, I dare to diagnose what we had here throughout the entire cycle yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Bureau, get your shit together before you allow even more serious violations of laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u4	Mr President, I would like to consider whether the statement of the Member qualifies for ethics and punishment. However, of course, the Sejm Bureau can only call the Marshal of the Sejm, so your proposal is now irrelevant. I would ask you to ask Mr Waldemar Andzel's first question from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In April, as in March, pensioners will receive 13ths in the amount of PLN 981 net. This is an extremely important injection for Polish pensioners who ask this question. The 13th pension will be paid annually at the lowest pension applicable from 1 March of the year in which the additional benefit is paid. Additional benefits will be paid out of office. The amount of the benefit will not be deducted or executed, nor will it be included in the income. The 13th pension will provide powerful financial support to beneficiaries receiving minimum pensions. I therefore address my questions to the Minister. How many Poles currently receive a pension at the lowest level? Will the person who acquires pension rights in April 2020 also receive a 13th pension? And I wanted the Minister to confirm what many pensioners and pensioners are asking about, i.e. payment guarantees at the current level of pensions and pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u6	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you for that question. Before I refer to this main question about an additional benefit called the 13th pension, maybe I will also give you some information about the situation of the elderly and the actions we have taken in recent years in support of pensioners and pensioners. I think that the most important moment at which we made a major change in pension benefits was the issue of raising the minimum pension. It is worth recalling here the year 2017, when we raised the lowest pension to 1 000. zł. That was an increase of over 13%. This has led to the fact that this lowest pension has started to grow at a faster pace than it has been so far when it comes to increasing the pension rate, and this has also been important at all stages of valorization. The second very important moment was that we provided last year, also this year during the valorization, the lowest amount of the benefit at the level of 70 PLN. This meant that this indicator, which has always been referred to as a percentage, has been converted into a rate of increase in pensions and pensions, into a percentage-value ratio. And this amount of PLN 70 gives these guarantees to increase the lowest benefit. This year, this amount - we are talking about this minimum increase in the benefit of PLN 70 - covered more than 5 million recipients, i.e. pensioners and pensioners, because in this group with a minimum pension there are also pensioners who are also entitled to this benefit. This year's valorization of the ratio of 3.56 caused this pension to rise by 70 PLN, and for the rest of the group by this ratio of 3.56. Today, the minimum pension is PLN 1200 gross, as you have already said, PLN 981 net, and the lowest pension net is PLN 1025. The total cost of this year's valorization was over PLN 9 billion. And these are the actions we're taking. It is also worth stressing here in the context of this minimum wage that, if we look at percentage, since 2016, from the rule of law and justice, the lowest pensions have increased by more than 36%, i.e. a high rate. As regards the 13th pension issue, what you asked me was an additional annual benefit, i.e. the so-called. The thirteenth pension, which is permanently entered into the Act, which will apply annually, is paid in the amount of the lowest pension, i.e. 1200 PLN gross, and applies to all pensioners, pensioners, persons who are on compensatory benefits, on pre-retirement benefits, also pensioners who are insured in KRUS, as well as those who are in uniform services. In total, we spend over PLN 11 700 million on this benefit. This 13th pension will cover over 9700 thousand. persons who are entitled to do so. What is important is that this additional 13th pension does not affect other benefits, which we add to the income, both in terms of allowances, benefits or rehabilitation relief. This is also an important solution because this is an additional benefit that does not cause us to lose some funding for another reason. It is also worth emphasising that the 13th pension is free from deductions and executions. What the Member has asked about the eligible, the 13th pension is entitled to all those who are in the pension scheme on 31 March, i.e. if someone has passed in April, he will be entitled to 13 next year's pension, this year he will not receive this thirteenth pension. So all those who are entitled to retirement on March 31, can benefit from this 13th pension. The 13th pension is paid within the same period as all the pensions that our recipients receive, and that is in tranches. If someone had, I don't know, on April 10th, he got a pension (the bell) plus so-called. 13th pension. That's it. If there's another question, I'll answer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you are asking Marek Suski a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! A lot of seniors in the coronavirus are worried about running out of money. And here's the question of whether we have full security when it comes to pensions and 13 payouts, because people are concerned that there may be a problem in this crisis. I ask you to assure our fellow countrymen that there is no problem with this. Thank you very much. You'd be interested in Radom.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u10	Thank you very much. You're answering the Minister again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. Of course, once again, I would like to stress that there is no risk with regard to the payment of the 13th pension. In this year's budget, the funds are provided, as I said, over PLN 11 billion from both the Social Insurance Fund and the KRUS, as well as the uniform services, which is directly from the state budget. There are no threats with regard to the payment of 13 pensions. So that pensioners can be calm about getting them this year, they will also get them next year. We don't have any plans to cancel our 13th pension. She is permanently entered into the bill and will be implemented as well as the Because there are voices that we're gonna suspend something. No, these are the actions we have taken, which today, in this very difficult situation, also respond to the needs of our compatriots. It would be hard to imagine today that we wouldn't have a program 500+ or thirteenth pension, and if it were harder for our families to live. This backup is. For the 500+ program we have over PLN 100 billion, which have been sent to Polish families. The funds from other programs than those listed here are also successful every month. And these social programmes will continue, so that I can assure you that nothing is changing in this respect. The Law and Justice Government will continue this policy to support Polish families in these difficult moments as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u12	Thank you very much. Now, the formal proposal - Mrs Marta Wcisło. I noticed that the Left Club exceeded the limit for people in the O.R. No. I'm asking one person to leave the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll make a formal request. I just wanted to ask your marshal to check the quorum, because we don't really know if we have a quorum, and we've started our deliberations. There was no check on that. Please verify the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u14	Thank you very much for your attention. We'll check the quorum before the vote. Please, let's get to the next question. Members Marta Wcisło, Michał Szczerba, Barbara Nowack and Monika Rosa from the Civic Coalition Club on the situation of permanent residence facilities for chronically ill and elderly people. You're welcome. The first question is asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary responsibility of the democratic state is the special care and care for the elderly, the sick and the disabled. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, art. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. But this is not the case. In our country, we have nearly 8,000 at the moment. sick people, including the most elderly, those in the highest risk group, those in social assistance homes who have a group illness, as was the case in Italy, Spain or other European countries. There was time to prepare for that. You should have, and you could have prevented it. The government assured us that we were prepared to fight the coronavirus, that we were ahead of Europe and that Europe could follow the example of us. Meanwhile, dramas, human dramas of the elderly and the sick in social services homes are taking place. This could have been prevented if the government had put in place procedures, tests, personal protective measures at the right time. What was happening today in Jakubowice, Skarżysko-Kamienna, Stalowa Wola, Psarach and many other social services houses could be prevented. It's not the fault, ladies and gentlemen, the managers or the staff, because they're doing their best, but they're left alone, they're out of help. There are no personal protective equipment and no tests to this day, no procedures to this day. The government doesn't have time to deal with the highest risk group, even though we've been assured that we're prepared to fight the coronavirus, that we have everything. Why haven't procedures, regulations been introduced today? Minister, why? Why doesn't social security staff have personal protective equipment? Ma. There isn't. I checked it out yesterday. Why aren't there any quick tests? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why can't a nurse who works at a help home at another hospital take care of these people? I just wanted to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much, Member. The answer will now be given to Minister Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister. Let me thank you. I wanted to thank all the social workers from this place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u16	Ma'am, please step out of the podium. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the responsibility of the State to provide for the elderly, who need help and people with disabilities, actually care, not just to talk about the fact that we care, and not to practice rhetoric that is unnecessary and unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen! From the very beginning... The facts speak for themselves. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and From the very beginning, when the epidemic in our country has been recorded, procedures have been in place since day one. Step by step, I will refer to numbers, procedures and all activities. Let me remind you that it is the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki who assists local governments in carrying out their own tasks. Social services is the task of self-government. We have 824 social services houses, which are run by local governments and are the ones that are being helped by the Government of Law and Justice. Procedures were issued before 13 March, procedures introduced through voivodships, because this is the hierarchy of transmission of regulations in the Polish country. The Ministry of the Family through the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration issues recommendations, recommendations which the voivods transmit to local self-government units, and they are implemented. The first procedures were introduced on 13 March. So, Commissioner, please do not mislead the public. As we say and say we will, and we confirm it in action, above all credibility is the basis of our action. Reliability and responsibility for the fate of all Poles and Poles, especially disabled people, elderly people. We do it every day. These are not accidental actions. They are planned, systematic, implemented step by step. With regard to all procedures, starting with the closure of social assistance homes, as well as round-the-clock centres, which are run by individuals as actors, recommendations have been made everywhere on our part on how to proceed in crisis situations. But not paper is the most important thing. The most important are the concrete actions. Every day since the pandemic situation in our country, meetings are held, video conferences with the heads of the social policy departments of the voivodship offices, in order to keep up-to-date information on needs and these needs to be met. First of all, our standard is that we are putting ahead of ourselves. Then why so many sick people? Why so many sick people, Minister, in social services? Maybe the Member will let me finish. Minister, don't react to the shouting from the room. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: I'm gonna get to the bottom of this, where so many sick people come from and what it looks like, and maybe we're gonna crash myths into reality. Ladies and gentlemen! We have 824 social services homes. As of today, 20 welfare homes are quarantined, together with residents of these houses, which is 2.4%. Pensioners with a positive outcome towards COVID are 247, of which 48 remain in the welfare home, other people are hospitalized. 87 workers were positive for COVID, which represents 0.15% all employees employed. Once again, the government gives its hand to those for whom it is their own task to run social services homes. Houses were equipped with the instructions, personal protective equipment, as well as the government provided additional funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the social services houses, through the voivodships, 20 million PLN. And that's not the last support. Every day - literally every day - the situation is monitored and decisions are taken. As far as the houses that you have mentioned are concerned, I do not think that this is at all the case at all. It is worth looking at and finding out what is in Jakubowice and what it looks like. Voivodeships deal very well with the subject, support local government. Where necessary, the Territorial Defence Forces are also involved in order to eventually, if the house is quarantined, deliver food or bring personal protective equipment. It's all planned, organized, and it works. Of course, each of us, as we are here, draws attention to the situation of the elderly, the sick, the disabled, we always want to lean on it, while, ladies and gentlemen, let us not build on the situation of those who are cared for, but are actually in a difficult situation, because the situation in the country is difficult, a political narrative such as that the government is not taking action. The government since day one... As we have ensured that there is an anti-crisis shield, so before this action all procedures have been put in place to secure, to support, above all, those bodies that are responsible for running these facilities. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: Just a minute, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I've extended my time a lot. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: I told you about social services, but there's a 24-hour center. In the country there are 600 round-the-clock centres, which are run by private entities. And these centers were also equipped with liquids, gloves, masks. There are 64 residents and 12 employees. If we wanted to translate these numbers into percentages, they're small, but that's not the point. The most important thing is the man and his support. We do this and we will do it. Thank you very much, Minister. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: This is 20 million PLN, personal protective equipment and all the actions that the government should take. These actions will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u18	Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition Club, asks an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u19	Minister! A country that can't protect the weakest and the most vulnerable can't protect anyone. We are talking about social services homes, which are 875 - these are NIK data - we are talking about 620 round-the-clock care facilities carried out within the framework of the activity, but also, Minister, and you do not notice this, we are talking about 124 care facilities operating without voivodeship permits. You know about these 124 facilities. I would like to call on you to answer the question of what actions you have done towards these illegal facilities that you and the voivods know about, you have done. Second thing. The staff is afraid to work in the DPS because the government is stingy with tests. Those tragedies wouldn't have happened if the staff had been tested. Now working in the DPS is just like Russian roulette. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on in Mazowsze is an incredible scandal. Bobrowiecka, Tomczyce, Niedabyl, Rusiec. And what does the veteran Radziwill do? Wojewóda Radziwiłł directs the mother who is feeding a 5-month-old to work (the bell) and then imposes a financial penalty on her. I appeal here to Prime Minister Morawiecki. I want you to clean up with Mr. Veteran Radziwilla. This man is threatening health security in Mazowsze. What's going on... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, sir. ...in care facilities, it's just a big scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u20	Thank you. Please answer again the question of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Maląg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u21	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We use numbers that are unfortunately not true. We say: 824 social services homes, 600 round-the-clock facilities. That's a fact. This is the 2020 NIK report. With regard to establishments which are carried out illegally, action is being taken, but even if there was a situation requiring assistance for pension workers, for staff, action would be taken. One such institution of these illegals is in trouble, we have monitored it and the actions of the voivods are taken. I will refer to Mazowsze, which the Member here called so beautifully, spoke about the situation in Niedabyl. It is Niedabyl that shows the situation of the voivodship, that is, the support of the entity that is the host body for this social assistance house. The situation in Niedabyl was the first, so she was prepared with the appropriate media narrative and used in some way, while the situation in Niedabyl is completely under control and the house is functioning normally. So, Mr President, let us not tell here things that are not true. Mazowieckie Voivode Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł took the right action. If staff are ill or lack of staff, they have the authority to order work, to appoint people to work in social services homes. But they're not... Mrs... And that's what the governor did. I have a list of all the people you've sent to work. What did those people do right away? They've taken medical leave, L4. How could he direct a woman feeding a five-month-old child? Mrs. Member! First of all, each situation is individual. Your voivodship's decisions were the right ones, and above all, they were meant to secure both sides. So each situation is individual. We're talking about social services, we're talking about 24/7 betting. As I said just now, all these facilities were equipped with personal protective equipment, they were equipped with additional resources. There is full support and concrete government action, so it is being monitored. We can replace all these houses, because when we look at the situation in Mazowsze, which here... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have to correct. Correct, Marshal. ...has been called many times, it is at this moment... Minister, thank you so much for your reply. Thank you very much, Minister. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...in Mazowsze we have four welfare homes in quarantine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u22	Member of the House? Correct, Marshal. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u23	Minister! I'd like you to refer to Tomczyce, too, because the situation is tragic there. And I'd like one thing... Mr President, that is no longer possible in this question. Okay, but that's what I'd ask, marshal, for written information. On the other hand, I would like to remind Minister Radziwiłł that Mr Radziwiłł cannot direct people to work in any way. Medics aren't the kind of sacks of potatoes that can be moved from place to place. You have to follow the law and you have to act in accordance with the mode that is indicated in the Infections Act. You can't direct people over the age of 60 to work. Radziwiłł's governor directs such people to work and at the same time imposes 5,000 punishments on them. The Mazowiecka Voivode Radziwiłł directs a mother who feeds five months' children to work. And what does he do? He's punishing them. There is no right to do so because a person who takes care of a minor child cannot be directed to work. I would like the Minister to exercise her constitutional powers and review - not only (the bell) the monitoring of the situation - of what is happening in Mazowsze, because this is a scandal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u24	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. A group of members of the club of the Left raised a question about the dramatic situation in social services and hospices. The first question is asked by Mr Robert Obaz, the club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to yesterday's speeches, where it has been emphasized once and again from this speaker that the measure of civilization, the universal, timeless measure of all cultures is its attitude to life - so said PiS Members - I ask you on behalf of disabled, elderly and ill DPS residents in Niedabyl, Tomczyce or Skarżysko-Kamienna, because today it is the law of opposition to ask what the government has done for those weak, often deprived not only of health, but also the dignity that each of us deserves. The latest information from the Ministry of Health about the growing number of vulnerable residents of social services houses puts their fate, safety and above all health into question. DPSs are not healthcare establishments and therefore cannot benefit from resources held by the Material Reserve Agency, not so long under the control of Members of the Left. I therefore ask: Has the Ministry of Health taken action to include DPS in the catalogue of entities referred to in Article. 46a point 1 of the Law of 2 March? What actions have been initiated by health inspectors and voivodships in the prevention of symptoms in pensioners and in the implementation of disinfection safeguards? Have measures been taken to equip these facilities with sufficient personal protective equipment? Thirdly, what actions have been initiated to ensure that residents reporting signs of virus infection are isolated and whether isolation takes place within the accommodation facility or under hospital conditions? What actions have been initiated to develop and implement procedures for high absenteeism among the staff of the institution? What have voivodships or voivodship health inspectors done to ensure that DPS personnel are treated as medical personnel subject to systematic tests? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also request that the Committee on Senior Policy be convened urgently and that an emergency subcommittee be set up to deal with the situation of social assistance homes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u26	Thank you very much. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u27	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Seniors are a special group that is particularly exposed to coronavirus infection. For this reason, the government is taking specific measures specifically directed to this group to protect it from infection and from the dangerous course of the disease. As regards the activities of the Minister of Health or the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, these activities have been jointly undertaken for several months now. By agreeing on procedures, we prepare appropriate guidelines, appropriate guidelines on how to proceed in order to prevent the spread of the virus in day-to-day social care or health care facilities. I mean both DPSs, care and medicine facilities, as well as a stationary hospice. Specific recommendations have been issued, specific procedures. Since the start of this epidemic, these recommendations have been published on the pages of the Chief Health Officer and on the pages of the Minister of Health. In addition, in the case of medicinal entities such as care and care establishments, they shall be transferred in the information management system by the National Health Fund. So that these procedures are created, updated and transmitted from the start to the relevant actors. We put particular emphasis on staff training and we continue to put emphasis on staff training. Voivodship consultants, national consultants have been obliged to supervise the conduct of the staff training process in such a way as to eliminate those behaviours which may result in the transmission of the virus, and to equip workers with maximum knowledge, ability to use personal protective equipment to prevent the spread of the virus. The Minister of Health also issued a communication in March which recommends that healthcare professionals, who are particularly exposed to infections, not transmit this virus to operators, especially DPSs or healthcare establishments. We've asked medical personnel to limit their work places to the maximum. As regards the specific security of those concerned, I would like to stress that, at the request of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health has issued a decision to transfer personal protective equipment and disinfectant fluids to social assistance homes several times. In two tours, over 5,000 were spent. 5-litre packaging of disinfectant fluids, over 1.5 million non-woven masks, over 1.5 million disposable gloves, over 100,000. Protective cavities. On an ongoing basis, of course, these funds are transferred to the voivodships, depending on the conclusions that go to the voivodships. As regards testing, studies are carried out on the basis of recommendations from the World Health Organisation, which clearly indicates how the eligible case should be defined. At the moment, the studies are carried out by persons who, on the basis of epidemiological intelligence, show a risk of contact with a person who is a carrier of Coronavirus. Studies are also performed to people who have symptoms that indicate that they may have been infected with the coronavirus. The tests shall also be carried out by persons in quarantine. If a resident of a social assistance home or a health care establishment fulfils these conditions, he/she shall have this type of examination carried out. The President of the National Health Fund issued an appropriate order under which both health care professionals and health professionals employed in the DPS may carry out tests at the expense of the National Health Fund. These tests may be carried out by medical entities which have appropriate laboratories and are included in the list of voivodships. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, I would like to say that we have taken all measures to equip ourselves with personal protective equipment, to train, and to introduce standards of organisation of work aimed at reducing the emission of Coronavirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to be more specific. We're talking over 80,000. people, residents and residents in the DPS, thousands of people in hospices and health care facilities, staff, those people that neither this government nor previous governments cared about. I would like to hear a concrete plan for helping and securing those people who work there. Minister! How will the government provide staff to these institutions? Dramatically, there is a shortage of nurses, nurses, and doctors. Minister, how are personal protective measures transferred there? Do you know the means, the needs of specific centres? Recently, the voivode handed over one of the Małopolska DPS suits for 3 days. Is that enough help? What's the path to getting this help? Does the Ministry also provide for evacuation of infected, infected subjects? We need a real aid plan (the bell), specific instructions, not handwashing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u30	Thank you very much. Ms Józef Szczurek Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, again responds. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u31	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have already presented the government's actions in support of people staying in social assistance homes or in care and medical facilities, and I would like to add that with regard to the standard of medical care, it is set out in the relevant legislation. As far as DPSs are concerned, DPS residents, each of these residents, like each of us, have the right to choose a doctor, a nurse. The National Health Fund finances this benefit 3 times higher than for other citizens. In view of the epidemic situation, the President of the National Health Fund asked family doctors, environmental and family nurses, to take special care of the residents of just social assistance homes. The standard of conduct was implemented by such double triangulating the residents of social assistance homes, i.e. analyze, test temperature, number of breaths twice a day and yet observe for other symptoms that may suggest coronavirus infection, it is about monitoring your health. In case of any disturbing symptoms the doctor, the staff of the social services home knows perfectly the standard, i.e. he calls the family doctor who is taking the measures he is taking. In view of the epidemic situation, the President of the National Health Fund introduced the possibility of financing benefits by means of telecommunications techniques, i.e. teleports. This allows residents of social services homes to communicate with people who care for them on an ongoing basis. As regards the provision of equipment, I would like to remind you once again that funds are being transferred to voivodships and voivodships from the Material Reserve Agency on an ongoing basis on the basis of an analysis of the needs of individual actors to provide them to specific medicinal entities. So that we make sure that the voivods have these means, while the decision to send the appropriate batch of disinfectants or materials or personal protective measures is taken at the level of the voivodship. Ladies and gentlemen! We have reached a powerful supply of personal protective equipment, which is already available to individual voivodships and this situation will soon be clearly improved. Mr. Marshal, can I still be corrected?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Please, Members of the Polish People's Party on the situation in social assistance homes. You are the first question asked by Dariusz Klimczak from the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question arose on the basis of the situation that took place and is taking place in the welfare home in Drzewica in the Łódź voivodship. In this house of social assistance very quickly there have been many infections among the wards as well as among the workers of the welfare home. Of course, there was a rapid lack of work places, hands, both among ordinary workers and among medical staff. As a result, the Łódź voivode has delegated part of the work order, among others. Mr. Nurse from Opoczno County Hospital, to work in this DPS. As it turns out, these nurses were supposed to be working a total of six. When two ladies came to work this morning, they turned out to be alone. This situation lasted from Great Thursday to the day before yesterday, while yesterday and today there was an evacuation of the welfare home. Given that the Minister has just said, just now, in reply to the questions of the Members of the Civic Coalition, that the Ministry has sent recommendations on how to deal with certain situations, e.g. in the DPS, I understand, the voivodeships, I would like to ask: What kind of recommendations the Ministry points out in such a situation, when the social services house is theoretically in operation, there are no specific medical staff, nursing care, there are no ordinary employees who will take care of the people, and after a few days it is decided to evacuate? Shouldn't such evacuations take place immediately when there are no staff? I also have a question as to whether the Ministry or government is working to modify (the bell) regulations and procedures that would avoid such situations, and how the voivodships evaluate, assess persons who are to get a work order and be posted to work in certain places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u34	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha. You're welcome. Because you asked about the house of help... Yes, I'm sorry, this question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Iwona Michalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is very, very different and we need to respond very flexibly in social assistance homes. Of course, if possible and if possible - I will mention Niedabyla's example - if you can help the workers and the residents of the welfare home on the spot, this is how we try to do it. Niedabyla's example is a good example of how this can be done. However, there are very, very difficult situations when there are actually a lot of people infected in a given welfare home and there is a problem with the staff, because as you probably know perfectly well, transmission of the virus to the help homes is unfortunately the most common, or actually almost 100% , from the outside, although we know that at the beginning of the problem concerning Coronavirus we closed social services homes and all who come from outside must be subject to appropriate procedures such as temperature measurement, etc. That's what Minister Rat-Jelly said. As far as Trees are concerned, because you are asking about a specific situation, the Tree House is designed for people who are chronically somatically ill and there at the moment, as regards the number of DPS personnel that are quarantined, there are nine healthy workers and four workers providing care for the infected residents. Various tests have also been carried out. Tomorrow, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Of course, there was a problem with the staff, and the governor made a very good decision to transfer the employees and residents of this social services house to the appropriate hospitals. There they have good care and are perfect, i.e. as far as possible and, I hope, very effectively, very rightly taken care of. So, in summary, Mr President, we contact each day, and we contact the heads of the social policy departments of the voivodship offices every day. They keep reporting to us what is happening in their voivodships, and we make such decisions as are best - the best - for employees of social services and staff. That's what happened in the Tree. And we're gonna keep doing it. Depending on where we need to deliver personal protective equipment, we will try to get new staff where we need to be. And if there are very difficult situations, we will evacuate the residents to hospitals because they will have good care there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u36	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep, also by the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer to the case already referred to here today by the Mazowieckie voivode Konstanty Radziwiłł, who refers to the article. 47 Act on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, probably not fully aware of the circumstances which exempt persons from the obligation to provide under that Act, tried to force environmental workers of the social home in Łychowska Wola to work in a social home in Tomczyce and then punished them with penalties of 5 thousand. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that someone like whom, but the voivodship would have to be accounted for by the knowledge of the law. Those who are exempted by this law deserve an apology and, above all, the withdrawal of those penalties. I ask you to do that, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u38	Thank you very much. He's answering again... No, now Minister Marlena Maląg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u39	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We monitor the whole situation related to the issue of work orders by voivodships concerning work in centres, social services homes. We've been diagnosed with an individual situation every time these warrants were issued. 22 such warrants were issued in the Mazowieckie voivodship. They are subject to our special attention and believe me that everything is handled in accordance with legal procedures. So that we are certainly also looking into this situation, when not only did Mr. Mazowiecki impose, but also other voivodships imposed an obligation to work in the social services home and the doctor's leave was automatically brought, so we will also allow ourselves to see the legitimacy of this release. I assure you that there are individual situations, while we act on a system. From the very beginning, I repeat, procedures have been implemented, we are working together with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as well as the Ministry of National Defence. Procedures have been implemented, personal protection measures have been transferred, but also money, because, I repeat, we have transferred 20 million PLN to the voivodships specifically for social assistance houses. In addition, the activities that are being implemented, including evacuation, are individually analysed. Mr Jakubowice referred to it. Friday night, the voivode... We've reviewed the proposal from the voivodeship that evacuation will be the best thing, that's the decision we've agreed to. On Saturday morning, there was an evacuation of the residents and the charges to ensure safety above all. We monitor it every day. Actions taken are pre-emptive actions. That is why we will not accept that, when it comes to the elderly, the disabled, we should talk about the scale of the phenomenon, because, as you said, there are thousands of sick people. I've quoted the numbers, the numbers that are true, collected every day. We don't just talk, but above all we do things. These procedures have been implemented from the very beginning, since 13 March. And today for 81 grand. Pensioners in social services homes and 24,000. Guests in 24-hour centers in people, in the DPS, we have over 200 diseases, and there we have 64. It is thanks to these actions that it is because otherwise, if we had not introduced it, we could have had a worse situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, it is known that there are people working there who are nervous, who, as staff, are certainly in a difficult situation. That is why we want to support staff, and that is what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Nitras, your marshal did not agree to your participation in the sittings in this Chamber. Your marshal doesn't have that right. Ask a question from another room. Give it to me in writing. But I don't care if you don't agree. I'm in line with your Marshal's orders. I'm just like any other Member. Get me out of here. Please leave the room. Another question. The Group of Members of the Law and Justice asks a question about the measures taken by the Ministry of Health to ensure adequate security measures for hospitals. As the first Mrs Anita Czerwińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u41	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent weeks, we have seen an avalanche increase in the incidence of COVID-19 in Poland. According to the information provided by the chief health inspector, 1/3 of people infected with the coronavirus are doctors, and almost 1/3 of infections are the result of contact with patients in hospital or clinic. In view of these statistics, I wanted to ask how the Ministry of Health intends to protect hospitals, clinics and their employees from infection. I will also ask a supplementary question: Are large purchases of personal protective equipment planned and their distribution to all hospitals in the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u42	Thank you very much. The Minister, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, gives the answer to this question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u43	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, The protection of medical personnel is the primary concern of the Minister of Health. It is the doctors who stand on the first front of the fight against the coronavirus. That is why we have been taking a number of steps from the outset to protect all health professionals, but also other health professionals. It is no secret that we have been dealing with human health problems for many years. Problems that were signaled many years ago: lack of staff, the upcoming dramatic human health situation, have not been seen for many, many years. Only in recent years have we taken concrete steps to improve the human resources situation. We've increased the number of nursing schools, doctors, improved the pay system. This has led to some improvement in medical personnel, but in the face of the epidemic, this number of human resources is insufficient. Special measures are therefore addressed to representatives of the medical professions. We want to protect them as much as possible. Personal protective equipment is an essential element of this protection. It is about the availability of these drugs, disinfectants, but also about the knowledge of procedures. These are very important elements in the protection of individual employees. As regards the provision of personal protective equipment, I would like to stress that in February the first deliveries were addressed to single-name hospitals. As you know, in the country we have 19 single-name hospitals, which have been designated as entities dealing only with patients infected with the coronavirus, and there in the first place were the deliveries - the delivery of personal protective equipment, i.e. the appropriate number of gloves, goggles, aprons, suits, masks, etc. The subsequent deliveries were subsequently managed. The Minister of Health decided to supply hospitals with one-named hospitals or infectious branches, giving appropriate instructions to the Material Reserve Agency. Currently, the Minister of Health has the resources acquired through purchases run by the Administrative Office of the Ministry of Health. We also have the resources that we have received in donation mode, made available from strategic reserves to the Minister of Health. State Treasury companies play a very important role in this field, which support us in buying and obtaining protection funds - such as Orlen, Lotos Group, KGHM Polska Miedź or the Industrial Development Agency. The resources collected are collected in selected warehouses, material reserves syntaxes, which serve as a logistics operator for the supply of medical protection measures. At the same time, the Material Reserve Agency continues to operate within the limits of its statutory rights and purchases as part of the reproduction of previously made available strategic reserves. As I mentioned, deliveries to single-name hospitals are being completed on an ongoing basis, but we also hand over the right batch, the right amount of resources to voivodships, who largely decide to distribute these funds to other medicinal products. Since the beginning of this epidemic, we have actually passed over 585 thousand. Protective suits. As far as FFP2 and FFP3 masks are concerned, there were over 1 million such masks. We've transferred over 1.5 million l of disinfectants to individual hospitals. As far as gloves are concerned, more than 16 million. This list is available. If you wish, we can provide you with detailed data according to the different types of personal protective equipment assortment. I would like to stress that these stocks are being replenished on an ongoing basis, distribution takes place through different channels, including. The Army of Territorial Defence plays a major role here, the Polish Post Office, which directly provides these personal protection measures (the bell) to specific entities. Recently, they were delivered to over 25,000. Target points. So that on an ongoing basis, personal protective equipment is provided to medicinal products in order to protect as much as possible the health care professionals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there an additional question, Member? No, thank you very much. Thank you very much. The Group of Members of the Civic Coalition asks a question about availability, in particular for health professionals, of tests to detect coronavirus. Mr President, I have consulted with the marshal and your Marshal to agree that you should make an exceptional point in this question. So the first question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! I'm not asking a special question, I'm using my right, and you and your marshal have no right to limit my right to enter the pleural room. Minister! Since the start of the fight against the epidemic, you have taken the idea to test little, especially health professionals and patients, and to close a lot. You have introduced the greatest restrictions on the mobility of Poles in Europe, including the fact that you have closed forests and parks. But at the same time we are Poland at the very end when it comes to testing Poles, when all international institutions, professionals, but also Polish doctors say that the necessary condition for effective fight against the epidemic is testing people, above all testing health professionals. Today you have led through a lack of tests to a situation in which Polish hospitals, instead of being a source of treatment and some hope, have become a source of pandemic. It's the most easy thing to get infected in hospitals today because you haven't tested your health care professionals, you haven't given them the basic instruments to fight the pandemic. You have allowed health professionals to work in several different hospitals during this difficult period, moving the plague from one hospital to another. And I accuse you that you are today the cause of the fact that we do not know how many infected we have, because we are least investigating, and at the same time, that this pandemic is spreading most in hospitals. You didn't take care of the basics, just the tests. On the other hand, the limitations you have introduced have caused the Polish economy to lose PLN 8 billion according to government data per day - I refer to the ministers of this government. These are also the biggest costs in Europe. In a situation where, thanks to testing, countries such as Germany, Denmark, the Czech Republic open shops and start their economy, all you have to offer us is the opening of forests. Opening up forests will not cure the Polish economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to restore normal functioning of healthy people as soon as possible and eliminate, isolate people who are infected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u46	Thank you. The answer is given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u47	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to correct these false statements by the Member, because in Poland tests are carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. Sure. In the same way, tests are carried out in the same cases in many European Union countries. We have adopted the standard of testing according to the definition of the case, and I want to talk about how it looks. So any person who, on the basis of epidemiological intelligence, shows a likelihood of contact with a person who is infected with a coronavirus is qualified for testing. Any person who manifests symptoms that indicate that he may have had contact with the coronavirus may be infected and the initial disease process is already beginning, also has tests performed. Every person who is in quarantine has also been tested. These are the recommendations of the World Health Organization. The Minister of Health has decided to secure the maximum number of tests that are necessary for carrying out tests for our residents. Currently in our country, the capacity of laboratory diagnostic plants is around 20,000. tests a day. We are currently performing these tests - information from yesterday - more than 8 thousand. a day. Last week we were doing ok. 11,000. a day. These people don't have limited access to the tests. As regards the testing of health care professionals, the President of the National Health Fund issued an order on the basis of which any hospital that has an appropriate diagnostic laboratory may carry out tests for both patients and employees. These tests are 100%. financed as a separate product by the National Health Fund. So there are different paths, different possibilities for carrying out these tests. As far as the availability and feasibility of tests are concerned, so are you. I told you, day-to-day possibilities That's approx. 20,000. So far more than 153 thousand have been made in Poland. tests. As far as testing material is concerned, that is the tests that we provided from the Central Sanitary and Epidemiological Reserve Base, these are the following numbers. More than 313 thousand were transferred to the regional sanitary and epidemiological stations and hospitals. tests, 223,000. Isolation, 83 300 soil swabs, 48,000. Substrateless swabs. So that access to the tests is secured, while decisions are made according to the applicable standard and are implemented in this way. I would also like to emphasise that these recommendations, these procedures, are being reviewed on an ongoing basis. We are, of course, analyzing various kinds of information that we are getting about Coronavirus. National consultants and chief health inspector shall make modifications, modifications of the procedures, standards or recommendations currently in force. If there are any indications that a group of people to be tested should be extended, the Minister of Health will immediately take such decisions. I would also like to emphasise, as regards health professionals, that there is also a register in place to monitor the number of infections occurring among health professionals. I want to assure you that every person who meets these conditions has tests carried out, if quarantine is required, that he is in quarantine, if he requires isolation, in isolation. They are also secured, so beside this problem, hotels for doctors, i.e. for people who do not want to after the job, e.g. In the infectious ward, return to your home environment in fear of transmitting the virus to your loved ones. We secure hotel spaces for all employees, including those who are not currently infected and working. So that these actions are intended to protect workers maximum, to protect them from Coronavirus transmission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The experience of the European Union or China shows that, despite these large safeguards, these cases do occur. We're going to take action to make it as small as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Katarzyna Lubnauer asks you an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u49	Minister! Together with Monica Wieliczhowska, on 28 January we asked about the risk of the coronavirus. Which is why I can safely say that I accuse you of doing all the work too late that you didn't introduce new procedures for the coronavirus, that you didn't prohibit doctors from working simultaneously in several centers, that you didn't run tests. Currently, there are 4 000 inhabitants of 1 million inhabitants in Poland. tests, at a time when in those countries where the most tested are in the European Union, this is 48 000, and on average it is several thousand tests. Only yesterday have doctors had free access to tests, since yesterday, and we have had a pandemic in Poland since the beginning of March. I'm accusing you of leading to a situation where you didn't allow those procedures that have been in force so far to hospitals because they didn't have the equipment. In February, when equipment had to be organized, the reserve agency sold masks that were real for use until 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, these are your omissions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u50	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is again responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u51	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! Your accusations are largely unfounded. Thanks to these actions which the current government has taken, we have this, not another epidemic situation in Poland. And it really takes a lot of bad will not to notice that we are developing the epidemic more slowly than in many other countries of the European Union. But not among the medics. Ladies and gentlemen! These actions, which have been taken by the current government, have caused us not to have such a drama that our health care professionals are luckily not faced with a dilemma to connect to a ventilator. Because Poles isolate themselves. We've made sure that there's the right number of intensive care facilities in our country, we've made sure these places are equipped. We make sure that workers are protected so that they have standards prepared, are properly trained. If you were to take care a few years ago to increase the number of schools teaching doctors and nurses, today we would have much, much less problems in this area. We've never been in government. And I want to assure you that despite the many different problems that arise in the health system, no country was 100% prepared to fight the epidemic, we try to solve these problems on an ongoing basis, to support health workers, above all to protect our residents, because this is the job of the Minister of Health and the current government. We take this task very seriously and carry it out on an ongoing basis. No specifics. In fact, we have one of the worst results among the medics.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask you from the Civic Coalition to leave the Chamber and to comply with the limit, which was agreed jointly at the Sejm Bureau meeting. The next question will be asked by the Members of the Civic Coalition on the effects of the economic restrictions on the fight against pandemics. The first question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On 14 March the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki decided to suspend the activities of the first branches of the economy in our country. It was closed at that time, among others. cafes, bars and restaurants. Then for an indeterminate period, because to this day the owners of various companies and companies in Poland do not know what their further fate will be, the activity of shopping galleries, cinemas, theatres, hotels, hairdressing and beauty establishments has been suspended. The problem of a huge drop in revenue, of course for natural reasons, has affected the tourism and transport industry. As a result of the freezing of the economy, many Poles and Poles lost very often the only source of income of their household. By taking such steps, the government should in principle immediately have cover measures that will make these companies survive so that these companies can return to normal work after the crisis. Such actions provided by the government were not immediately present. To this day, basically, the shield is not fully implemented. That's why I have a question, actually a couple of exact questions about numbers. How many companies have fallen since March 16th to this day? How many companies have registered out of business or simply suspended their business? We know that in the last three days of March it was practically 22,000. How many companies - and we ask for precise data - have reported collective redundancies to the labour offices and what number of employees have they included? And above all, what real aid has been made available to Polish entrepreneurs so far? I'm asking you about the specific cash that came into their accounts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm not talking about yesterday when the government panicked, seeing our question on the card, started paying off that money. Please specify the exact number until the day before yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u54	Thank you. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development is responsible for Mr Marek Niebżak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give you the few specific figures that you have asked for. There are also some issues that were more general in the first part of the question. I'll start with them. It is clear that the restrictions that have been introduced must be introduced as a response to a very dynamic situation. I think Minister Szumowski expressed that thought very well once, saying that he does not undertake to make predictions for more than two weeks in such a situation. In such a dynamic and difficult situation we all act. The same is true of economists or economic analysts. In fact, the only approach in this situation that is possible is a scenario approach, with the assumption that we do not have one plan, for example. To unfreeze the economy, and especially we couldn't have it, I don't know, a month ago. It is possible only and only to prepare for different scenarios depending on the course of the epidemic and depending on how long it will be necessary harshly, I think we all agree on sharpening. However, these sharpenings are so first-rate that I think we all agree that human life and health are more important than economic development. I say this as the minister responsible for economic affairs. I'm just realizing that this isn't the Ministry of Economics that should be playing the first violin at this point. As far as data are concerned, the first thing I would like to draw attention to is that the Polish Economic Institute estimates the value of this anti-crisis package, most commonly referred to as a shield, although it is very multi-component, at around 13.5% GDP, of which 6% constitute direct budgetary expenditure and State guarantees under BGK and PFR. By comparison, the fiscal package in the 2009 crisis represented around 1% GDP. So the scale of the aid is really, for our country's ability to measure GDP, very, very significant. As far as specific numbers are concerned, according to data e.g. BGK in the last few weeks, under de minimis aid, almost 3200 credit agreements have been launched for a total amount of 1200 million. As far as aid is concerned, not de minimis aid, but for large companies, we have 96%. the limit of the guarantee portfolio exhausted as of today. As far as data on aid applications are concerned, I will list the three most important categories. I see a meter, and I'd like to talk about group redundancies. As regards the exemption from the obligation to pay social security contributions, we have 565 109 requests for social security contributions last night. But we're asking about it. As regards the parking benefit for persons engaged in economic activities - 144 964. As regards the support provided for the protection of jobs, i.e. for the largest companies - there is an economic stopover or the Polish equivalent of the model 20 It's a matter of group layoffs. Monitoring by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy shows that in March, 84 workplaces were reported for 7800 people, 7800 employees. And April? As far as data on not notifications are concerned, only the exemptions themselves, they are slightly different. I need to find them in my material. Nothing, I can't find them quickly right now, but I'll try to answer in the extra time that we're about to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u56	Thank you very much. A further question is asked by Dariusz Rosati, also by the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u57	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Minister, I think you're either being misled, or you're living in some virtual reality. I'd like to tell you that the scale of the actual supply announced by the government, unpaid, is 2.5%. GDP. As part of the first shield it was PLN 30 billion, including 10 out of the budget, under the second shield - PLN 18 billion, including 200 million out of the budget. Mr. Minister, let's hear it. Please don't mislead us all. The rest are credit instruments related to the mobilisation of reserves by the NBP, etc. But companies want help, not more credits. This is the first case. Second thing. According to all forecasts, Minister, the Polish economy will shrink by 10% in the second quarter How well will it go, and in the third quarter - by 5%. I have a question for you and the government: What are you going to do to get the Polish economy out of the state of hibernation in which you introduced it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Indeed, the fight against the virus is absolutely the most important issue, but for this reason we must not paralyze the entire economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u58	Thank you very much. Which one of you responds? Minister Marlena Maląg. You're welcome. Three ministers for one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u59	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! She asked for concrete measures, specific money. We're doing it. The data about which the Minister has said show the funds as much as possible, because these numbers of applications are followed by specific money transferred, both from the Labour Fund, through the Social Insurance Institution and by us, which we carry out through the county labour offices and voivodship labour offices. She can be considered. For the moment, that is, yesterday, because the data are from yesterday, we transferred PLN 3309 million to the county labour offices for the implementation of both micro-credits and support for funding for salaries. These appropriations shall be paid systematically. We systematically transfer funds according to demand. They're not lying in any way. I will even mention companies that paid out funds yesterday - I will mention in which voivodships, just to satisfy curiosity. Payments have also been made from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, specific payments already made - for more than 381 513 thousand. zł. And these payments are systematically implemented - for the protection of more than 420 thousand. jobs. Hurry up. Only yesterday... From every voivodship where the payments were made yesterday, I collected data on the five companies that did this, and the amounts. E.g. PLN 1.5 million were paid out in Podlaskie Voivodship, in Świętokrzyskie Voivodship - nearly PLN 0.5 million, in Śląskie Voivodship - over PLN 6.5 million, in Opolskie Voivodship - over PLN 1.5 million, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodship - PLN 0.5 million. Only yesterday for the first five entities, and the remaining funds were also paid. Zachodniopomorskie - 1 million PLN, Łódź - 3 million PLN, Dolnośląskie - more than 10 million PLN, Lubuskie - 1 million PLN, pomorskie - more than 1.5 million PLN, Małopolska - almost 5 million PLN. Every day we collect this information - they will also be available on counters at county labour offices, voivodship labour offices and on our website. In order for you to have an insight into the fact that the applications submitted - because behind them there is a specific employer, a specific employee, a specific family - are not only collected efficiently, because they are collected efficiently, but there are also payments realized, because this is our goal. I regret to say that you have not answered two basic questions: How many people are unemployed and how many companies have suspended their activities? Thank you very much, Minister. Madam, you already had time to ask a question. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: About...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you so much. You guys got your questions two days ago. But no, we're not discussing in the O.R. What if he doesn't? That's what the gym's for. Thank you very much, Minister. Members of the Law and Justice are asking a question about the actions taken by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in view of the difficult situation of artists. You're welcome. The first question is asked by Mrs Joan Lichock. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, your time for questioning has passed. I'm so sorry. We are within the limits set by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal spoke in our time. And don't raise your voice here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Minister! The epidemic hit the world of people of culture Very hard. This is one of the groups most affected by the freezing of social, public and artistic life because of the epidemic. There are no theatres, no films, no series, no exhibitions, no new artistic events. Very often their creators have very limited sources of income from day to day. These are not employees with a certain salary guarantee. I would like to know how many applications for help for artists have already been sent to the Ministry of Culture, what kind of aid it is, what amounts it is paid for and what kind of support mechanisms the Ministry provides for for for cultural people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u62	Thank you very much. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for that question. It is important, because maybe roses are not the most important when forests burn, but these roses, as you know, we all need them, including those who extinguish forest fires on the first line. Therefore, as soon as the first epidemic restrictions were announced, we started working on solutions to compensate for the losses associated with the suspension of cultural activities. We calculate that this aid under the next crisis shields - two at the moment, as you know, are known, one is accepted, the other is processed, another amendment is being prepared - may amount to up to PLN 4 billion. In comparison, the cultural budget this year is 5250 million, which is worth comparing with the last year of the governments of our predecessors. In 2015, this budget amounted to 3,600 million. So we managed primarily through the time of our governments - there has not yet been this epidemic - to increase the strength of the resources of Polish culture in a way unknown after 1989. We have adopted for co-operation and have established many new institutions run by the Ministry of Culture, more than 60 new cultural actors, and thus also those where people have jobs where they have stable jobs. The second such system action was the fight against trash cans. In those institutions which are directly subject to the Polish State, in principle there are no such employment contracts, and in any case this has been minimized, while in fact civil law contracts are very often found in the whole cultural sector. This is the specificity of this sector and cultural people have largely agreed to this. The third system change was being prepared. Unfortunately, she has been detained for the last 2 months, when our activities have been changed to another direction, but work is underway on a law that regulates the status of an artist in Poland, together with the creation of an insurance fund. After 1989, and before that, it looked completely different, nothing to compare. There was no civilised solution in terms of securing the needs of artists and people of culture. I say: people of culture, because they are not only creators and artists, but also entire organizational, technical and scientific facilities that operate in the field of culture. These people largely did not have any civilized security in terms of insurance. We created it, this bill is practically ready. She was prepared for two years in a debate, in a discussion with the whole cultural community. On the other hand, when it comes to concrete solutions, I will also give you a few numbers, first of all the anti-crisis shields, including the protection of Polish entrepreneurs, also include entrepreneurs in the field of culture, here they are primarily the issue of subsidies to keep jobs, the known case, subsidies, mini-loan, exemptions from the ZUS. This also applies to people of culture. Plus, we took care of... I am no longer a Minister of Culture, but as Chairman of the Committee on Public Use, I am responsible for the issue of NGOs. The National Institute of Freedom, which is the operator on this issue, has ensured that both shields also address and ensure the functioning of non-governmental organisations, because many cultural activities are carried out in the legal form of NGOs and these issues are also covered. NGOs have been largely aligned with businesses. A great, I think, important security for people of culture is the parking, connected with the situation of people who work on the basis of civil law contracts, orders, work and self-employed. As you know, the parking has been extended to 3 months, so it's a basic security of 80%. The minimum wage for those who have stayed in this form shall be provided. As I said, NGOs have also remained levelled and this also meets the needs of people of culture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have also introduced special programs within the Ministry. First of all, it is a network culture programme that has already started. Applications are collected until 20 April. As far as I can tell, we've already got over 100 applications, and I expect there to be a few thousand of them. It is generally the case that over the last three days these conclusions have been most frequent. This program is divided into individuals and entities, and I will not go into details. This is at the moment at the first throw of 20 million PLN. We're talking about the first throw. If it's not enough, we'll try to add it to it. We also increased the ministry's programs. The Minister has 32 programs. We have increased these programmes by 60 million in the last month, in the form of appeals, so that the sector can be further powered. This applies to monuments and musical concerts, which are obviously shifted to autumn or later, and many other activities in the area of culture. These are the sums that haven't been found in the sector before. We are also planning an additional programme after the epidemic, unfortunately we do not know when it will be. It will be a programme for compensation for the whole cultural sphere, about PLN 50 million. In addition, there is a Culture Promotion Fund in the Ministry, some of which are devoted to social benefits for creators and artists. We immediately increased the fund's envelope, he's already paid. 300 applications have already been dealt with positively, exactly 327. These people already have the benefits they pay. The next committee will be here this week. 750 applications were received within the first month. We will consider them all in the coming days and this direct, basic assistance will be handed over. It's also worth saying... We have already built this, this is a forerunner for people of culture, a guarantee programme Creative Europe in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This is 500 million PLN for people in creative sectors. They can benefit from such convenient loans, loans and support under this programme. We have also carried out several detailed solutions within the first credit card, e.g. concerning the definition of a film work or the facilitation of applying for funds at the Polish Film Institute. These are issues that I do not want to go into in detail, because they are more professional, while they enable the functioning of culture in the current situation in the network and facilitate the functioning of film producers, film people, film people. So the cultural industry, alongside the hotel, restaurant, tourist industry, has been specifically included in the first crisis shield as the one that can display vouchers, i.e. move its commitments to the future. It is precisely because it is an industry that has often been deprived of influence in a 100% way. These are the basic things I can tell you. The next are prepared, but until they are accepted by the Sejm - I am talking about the third anti-crisis shield - it may not make sense to talk about them at the moment. In general, a lot of detailed solutions have also been put in place for flexibility and liberalisation of procedures and requirements and settlements, to the extent that, for example. in our competitions for NGOs at the National Institute of Freedom may not even be accounted for by the result itself, but by the fact that in some way a replacement project was implemented. So the flexibility, the transfer of time limits, as well as the transfer of time limits concerning tax obligations, reporting obligations - all of this was introduced in practically one month for Polish culture. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u64	Thank you very much. That concludes our consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider information on the functioning during the outbreak of Cortipinus fire schools, with particular regard to the situation in the Main School of the Fire Service in Warsaw, which was proposed by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron). I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Is Mr Wiesław Szczepański in the Chamber, who is the representative of... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, in that case, because we have information that we need three minutes, I'm announcing a three-minute break. We have an acceleration, the Member has the right to be late. I don't know if that's a good word. Wait a minute. Another minute to take a breather for the Member, because it turns out there are no government representatives yet, so 60 seconds. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wiesław Szczepański.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland there are several fire schools: Petty Officers in Bydgoszcz, Aspirants in Cracow, Poznań and Częstochowa, and the most important one - the Main School of Fire Service in Warsaw, which trains fire officers. These schools train elites of Polish firefighters. Just as they are watching over our possessions and health, so the state that educates them should ensure their safety and health. The last few days have, unfortunately, shown that they are not. In the quarantine there is a group of cadets from the fire school in Poznań, they were quarantined by the sick people from Warsaw, and they were also placed in the school in Częstochowa. There's a suspicion that there's also an infected person there. Although civilian schools and universities have been closed since 16 April, classes continued in SGSP and other fire schools, and students were still enlisted in a large group. This posed a threat, a potential risk of coronavirus infection. Today, 47 patients have been diagnosed with coronavirus. These are not all people who may be infected. The National Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of Interior, which will soon be closed down, decided to quarantine all the companies of this unit, i.e. more than 300 people. Civilian university employees were sent home without any research. The media have reported on the threat of life and health of the sick people in a series of articles for many days. The first symptoms in patients who showed infection occurred in some of them on 6 April. The management of the unit accused the underprivileged of simulation. Coronavirus tests were only performed at school on 11 and 12 April. During this time, the underdogs were free to go out into the city, many times, according to the information of the inhabitants, grouply, potentially threatening other people. They also went outside the university because the over-air crossing over the street between university buildings has been unrepaired for centuries. During this period, the school's management showed gross professional and commanding incompetence and lack of any ethical and moral principles, which, in our opinion, deprives them of their ability to act as commanders of the Polish firefighter's high school. There was chaos in school. According to news reports from the media, healthy people were ordered to feed their sick friends without any protection. There were no disinfectants during certain periods. It was reported that the command had fled home, causing embarrassment. Each case reported by the underprivileged was only dealt with after a media broadcast. The school management showed complete indolence, lack of management skills in the crisis, which created the conditions for a further increase in the number of patients. The intervention of the General Command of the State Fire Department, i.e. the incapacitation of the fire school authorities and the taking over of their role in crisis management, led to remedial and rescue action against infected persons and those for whom infection is possible. I'm asking why it took so long before the chief of state fire department responded. Perhaps because at that time he was driving around Poland and exchanged his own for his: Pomorskie, Zachodniopomorskie, Podlaskie, Mazowieckie, Łódź Regional Commander of the State Fire Service. Delays in risk management have resulted in the conscious exposure of a large group of students to loss of health or even life. COVID-19 leaves permanent changes in the body both in people who have had Coronavirus and in those who have had asymptomatic infections. This can in future eliminate these young people from the service and therefore form the basis for claims against universities. The parents put these young people under the care of the state, but the state failed. Will they hear the word "sorry"? Is that enough? Today, a scapegoat was found and dismissed as Deputy Chief of Operations of the St. Brig. Jarosław Zarzycki. But is he the only one to blame? Isn't she guilty of the entire school board? Where was the surveillance from the main guard command? It's interesting that you're the rector of the superbie college. Dr. hab. Eng. The drip is the author of the book Bioterrorism. Poland for the use of biological weapons. Unfortunately, he did not use this knowledge in the university he managed. In the normal world, if he were a man of honor, he would resign himself, not ask for the deputy's appeal. Minister! What is the situation and protection against coronavirus in other fire schools in Poland? Who will be responsible for professional, financial, political, and even criminal negligence? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 12 March, teaching classes have been suspended in all schools under the Ministry of Home Affairs. Despite the suspension of teaching classes, the students remained in the fire department's primary school and other fire schools, because these facilities have their fire escape units with designated protected areas. These positions are cast by the staff of the school and the listeners. The Main School of the Fire Service is an organizational unit of the PSP and must maintain adequate rescue potential in case of fire or other local threat in its territory. In this case it is the Żoliborz district in Warsaw. In addition, schools are part of the central operational drainage of the Chief of the State Fire Department. The operational branch of the National Fire Service Headquarters within the central operational channel of the national rescue and fire escape system consists of 80 sick primary school and 50 students from other universities. Given the nature of this service and the system of 24 hours per 48 hours, for operational purposes approximately 300 sick fire department schools must be allocated. Regarding the events that took place at this school, the first information about students complaining of symptoms similar to those of COVID-19, i.e. lack of taste, smell, increased temperature, took place on April 5th on Sunday. On 7 April, the first media articles to describe the matter appeared on Tuesday. On 10 April, the first Coronavirus tests were carried out on Friday. In 10 out of 16 subjects tested, the results were positive. On 11 and 12 April, a comprehensive test was carried out for the presence of Coronavirus in a total of 386 people, including all under-care officers, school rescue and school staff, including civilian workers. The virus was diagnosed in 47 subjects. On 15 April, in a repeat study, positive results were found in 4 consecutive patients. A total positive study was found in 51 subjects. In accordance with the decision of the State Sanitary Inspection MSWiA, the Podchorażs with positive test results were transported to an external isolation facility in Warsaw, designated by the health department and the services of the voivodeship. Students aren't hospitalized because they're lucky to have mild symptoms of coronavirus. The remaining diseases were subject to mandatory quarantine until 26 April. In agreement with the health services, it was decided to divide the diseases under quarantine into smaller groups. Some of the patients remained in quarantine at the university - 127 patients. The rest are held at the central fire service school in Częstochowa, aspirant school PSP in Bydgoszcz and in the voivodship training centers of the State Fire Service in Tylna Góra, Pionki and Olsztyn. Quarantine conducted in several locations reduces potential infections to a smaller group and ensures good living conditions for the duration of quarantine. The transport of diseases was carried out on the basis of the means of transport of PSPs. In places of dislocation, double rooms with a sanitary node, board and the possibility of a 24-hour telephone consultation with PSP doctors designated by the National Fire Service Headquarters are provided. Between the 7th and 9th days of quarantine, as decided by the health services, further tests will be carried out in the sick. Before the dislocation, the underdogs stayed at the main school of the fire brigade. In the rooms of the school, the specialized rescue and chemical group Warszawa 6 conducted fumigation, i.e. gas disinfection of the rooms, which is the most effective. During fumigation, the patients had to leave the premises, because during disinfection and a few hours after it, people could not be at the place where it was carried out. The Podchożs stayed at that time, among others. In the halls and in the halls of the school. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of the chief of state fire department (the bell), which I share, there has been negligence, very serious negligence. At that moment, the chief fire chief asked for the rector, deputy chief of the chief fire department for operational affairs, senior brigadier Jarosław Zarzycki to be dismissed. The reasons for this request were: lack of proper supervision of the surgical vertical, disregard for information about the condition of their poor self-absorbedness and undermining of the symptoms of Coronavirus in students. The prophet was also to mislead the immediate superiors, suggesting that the sick could be simulated by the sick, hoping to be able to go home for the holidays. As requested by the chief fire department chief, the director of operational affairs was dismissed by me. On 15 April, the chief of the state fire department set up a special task force to explain the causes of the events in the fire department's primary school. The team is to determine the cause of the transmission of the virus to the school in a situation where the underprivileged students did not leave its territory, and to answer the question of why the procedures failed, who was responsible for this and how to avoid such situations in the future. As far as the situation in other schools is concerned, there are no signs of any threats, while the services after these Warsaw events are very sensitive and if any signals from students appear, they will be verified instantly. There has been an unacceptable situation where respect and trust have not been shown to the sick and students, hence the first professional consequences. The Rector who was responsible for this, who misled his superiors, who for several days suggested that we were dealing with simulants who wanted to go to their families for Christmas, suffered consequences. The Commission has taken action and the matter will be examined closely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Where do you get this kind of staff? Where do you get staff from the ministry that abandon their cadets who expose them to disease? Where did these people come from? How is it possible that such a dramatic abuse occurred in public service? Where are they from? They're your nominations. These are your men, these are your men after the staff exchange at the Home Office from generals to the lowest level. This is the purge effect you've been doing since 4.5 years. It's not a coincidence. If we are talking about this today, it is because the fire main school in Warsaw is a symbol of what is happening in Poland during the course of Coronavirus: incompetence, delays, neglect of the problem, and then what? - hucpy, just a big hucpa, because, in fact, it is difficult to read a prepared speech that we have just heard from the Minister's mouth, does not explain anything, does not explain a single charge that has just been made here. It is exactly like in the case of Polish hospitals: at first it was said that there was no infection, and at the moment - there are no dangers, there are no risks at all. That's what your government said. And at the very end, it turns out that we have one of the highest rates of medical service infection, even though we're still ahead of the pandemic summit. In fact, Poland today is the Main School of Fire Service. It's a rule, it's not an exception. If you want to have more propaganda events with the largest plane in the world today, with the Prime Minister's story that we are the best and others are following us, then these are - yes - these attempts to deceive reality. And the reality in Poland during the pandemic is the school (The Bell) you oversee. And in this case, you found a scapegoat, but you're the one who's guilty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u70	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, the Minister said that all the sick people in this school had been tested, but he didn't say when they were tested. You didn't say that they were tested much, much too late, after they were already circling Poland, circling units, their own homes, in Warsaw, infecting others. In the material presented by TVN24, the spokesperson of the fire school chief reported that every school employee had access to the tests and that it was widely known information and that everyone could come forward on Saturday and Sunday for the tests. I therefore ask you to answer in writing, who, when and how has informed all the school staff and school officials about this fact. Secondly, please answer in writing whether the team called to explain the whole situation intends to have discussions with the management only or with the rest of the school community, because in fact the public has learned about this situation from desperate appeals on social media themselves sick people. Why did school management insist that the underdogs serve in the unit when it was known that they had symptoms of infection? Is the commandant, deputy commandant, director Jarosław Zarzycki currently at the disposal of the main command, or has he already filed a pension supply report with a retroactive date? How do I explain the fact that, despite the procedures in place, the unit commander and the deputy chief wanted the suspect to go to the hospital on an infectious bus along with other persons who were suspected of being infected with the virus? Why were the firefighters in the unit who had been in their homes since April 10th not assigned to the study? Currently (the bell) most of them are in quarantine. Finally, how many similar schools and uniformed universities in Poland, in which students remain assigned, are not tested, in which Polish orders, prohibitions and procedures to combat the epidemic have not been implemented? The answer to this question was not given by the Minister. The statement was enigmatic. Please answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u72	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u73	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Before I begin, before I ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen, let me nevertheless thank the firemen of the State Fire Department from this platform for what they do today, every day and often at risk of their lives. Because it seems to me, Minister, that as far as personal protective equipment is concerned, firefighters are concerned, you have a great duty to take care of it. They're on the front line, too. You're welcome, Minister, to think about it. On the other hand, as far as the situation is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I have specific questions. According to the information, we have 47 sick people. Do we know the results from the other 12 who were still waiting for the results? I would also like to know, ladies and gentlemen, whether the patients who were transported to other units, places, and who had a negative result the first time, have already been tested again. When can we expect these results? First of all, what are their conditions? Are those who help them also adequately secured? I'd like us to find out here, ladies and gentlemen. I would very much ask that this situation be monitored at all times and that this information be kept up to date. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Ionski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, doctors and nurses asked us and asked us for backup, and they're still asking for backup because there's no masks, no personal protective equipment. Someone in the government has made a decision to sell sixty thousand supermasks out of resources, and doctors are asking for any help. Now we find out that in the case of these uniformed services, where procedures should work immediately, they didn't work immediately. It's total chaos. The number of sick people we hear about is about the infected, and the fire department's General School is growing avalanchely. Well, those who are helping each day - these include nurses, doctors, and firefighters - today they ask us for help, among others. Because you can't handle yourself and help them in a difficult situation. But what we're dealing with at the Fire Service General School is already incompetence, chaos, and in this case we demand specific disciplinary proceedings. Well, after reporting one of the groups that first indicated the most infections, they heard from the deputy chief of operations that they were simulating. On April 14th - only April 14th - you decided to dismiss him. Well, if it is that the head of the fire school thinks that uniform students simulate -- not much of it, they even called them non-workers because they didn't want to conduct classes during the ban imposed by the main command -- then I'd like to ask the Minister why the commandant himself wasn't called off on this case, why there are no disciplinary proceedings in this case. Here the calendar was presented. This calendar is 14 days old, and until today, some of the results are missing. I want 12 people waiting for the latest results. Why is it taking so long and when it's over? Please inform me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u76	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Jarosław Goncier, the Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u77	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Students of the State Fire Department are uniformed students. That means they have other responsibilities than the other students. They have to be in groups a lot, they can't just work remotely. After these unpleasant experiences, have there been any procedural changes, organizational changes to improve student safety in other uniformed schools as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Monika Pawłowska, Lewis, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Main School of Fire Service is the glory of the fire department in Poland. Service puts their health and life at risk every day, giving us an example to follow in order not to give up in the daily fight against the coronavirus. We ask the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration: How can you allow yourself to be deliberately put at risk the health and life of firefighters and university employees? How can it be allowed that both fire rescue units and universities have not taken any key decisions in time during the pandemic? Can fever, lack of taste, smell, malaise be the symptoms of Coronavirus or not? These are questions to the Minister because the Ministry doesn't know that the school should have been closed long ago. The Ministry does not know that even with suspicion students should be isolated and the others should be under constant control. The Ministry doesn't know he doesn't know anything. So what does the Ministry know if the minister is also the minister of the special forces coordinator? Well, the state of our country in a pill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u80	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mrs Eve Szymańska, Law and Justice speak. In that case, since the Member is absent, please take the floor of Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u81	Dear Marshal, Minister! This situation is a double bad and difficult situation, because it happened in the space of the Main School of Fire Service, the one which, after all, educates officers, elite of service, which has the highest trust in Poland, people who in all Poland save lives and health of Poles with their courage, professionalism. That is why this example needs to be clarified if the basic elements related to procedures, safety and above all the truth are broken. Because such a situation can happen anywhere, it happens in hospitals, but the essence of the service is to explain the truth and act quickly according to procedures, that is the requirement of a Polish officer. Therefore, I ask the question, being informed by the employee or employees of this school: Isn't it that the whole system of responsibility should, however, be focused on the authorities of the university which simply neglected this case or hid the fact that the workers were infected? Isn't it that the Rector Professor Paweł Kępka received this promotion for the state of government? According to information from the university, this happened after the brother of the general operated on Minister Błaszczak's father - suddenly in less than a year the general received as many as two service promotions, including a general for the rank of superbrigade. Normally, such promotions take years. But isn't this fast-track promotion system part of your policy that your people are just about to get promoted? I'd like to ask that by being informed by the professors of this university, because responsibility for what happened, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it also falls on your chancellor, and from this we must draw far-reaching consequences for the future, so that this situation does not happen again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u82	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to ask the question, to take the floor of Mr Paul Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Firefighters! Members, Messengers! As a member of the team of firefighters of the 9th term of the Sejm, I would like to ask the following questions: Why were there no cessation of practical exercises conducted by the field training department in 16 patients despite revealing the symptoms? Why have 16 patients increased their practical training at the New Mazowiecki Dwór (NOWD Dworze Mazowiecki) after revealing their symptoms? Who gave the instruction to continue the exercise and increase its dimension? Have all the drill officers been tested for Coronavirus? If not, will they be tested for this? Who was responsible for qualifying officers potentially exposed to these tests? When was the notification of the duration of the tests, how and to whom did this information be communicated and on whose instructions? Why didn't the head of the school divisions isolate the first patients who had a fever? Please answer these questions in writing. And I want to thank all the firefighters for standing on line one. So that one great, huge respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u84	Thank you very much, sir. I ask for the floor of Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What happened has already happened, and it won't turn around. If the coronavirus is dangerous, it's been in this room several times, maybe several dozen times. I have a question: How do other fire schools and not only fire schools, but also police schools, where there are large clusters of people? What does this case look like today? What's the case at the fire school we're talking about? What detailed solutions were adopted so that all those who were infected could recover and return to their tasks calmly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u86	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you as a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, but also vice-president of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team, for the actions that the State Fire Department and the voluntary firefighters take every day, who are on the first line in the fight against the koravirus. I would like to ask the Minister to tell the Minister what action the State Fire Department, the voluntary fire department and other uniforms are taking in the fight against the coronavirus. Again, like I said, I'd like to thank you. I have full confidence in what the Government of Law and Justice is doing, as well as the Minister and his servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Double rooms were introduced to the fire department's main school. The people there were to mix, even though they did not know the results of their tests on COVID-19. The Rector threatened students with disciplinary consequences for their social media contributions. In particular, he threatened students to write applications to stop giving first degree officers to those who would describe the situation at school. How many other schools, dorms, police and fire marshals are similar? It's the tip of the iceberg. Why does the government agree to the censorship of uniformed services? Why isn't the state protecting those who are fighting for our lives and our health? Why, instead of helping Poles and Poles, do they receive railroads of repression and chaos? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u90	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You spoke so quietly to us. I don't know if you had breakfast today or if you were just embarrassed and couldn't get your voice out. Now, here's the question. Please respond in writing. Did the company commanders, the school doctor, the principal know the procedures for preventing the epidemic? Has the appropriate crisis staff been set up? Why was the temperature measured with a pyrometer? Why was the JRG SGSP commander quarantined? Did he have a test done? Has the Chief Rector been kept informed of the situation? Why didn't you stop practicing on the field, at the gym, and at the climbing gym? What personal protective equipment have been handed over to the officers? Why were there four gates and two pass offices open? Why didn't you close the footbridge between the subjects to limit the movement inside the school? Were the underdogs taking a bus for periodic tests? Which commanders worked remotely? Were there any situations that none of the commanders were in the company's records? In December Ub. The firefighters put out the fire in my arson house, so special chapeau bass, gentlemen. And a promise: we will not leave you with your problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u92	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are prepared to fight the koravirus, we are ahead of Europe - assured by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Are we prepared? How does this apply to a high school fire department, where chaos prevails, as reported by the underdogs themselves, where people who haven't been sick until recently have positive tests after 2 days, and those who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 are in temporary solitary facilities where they don't have access to a shower where there are no sanitary nodes? Those who have not yet made their decision are squatting in the halls, sleeping on tables, chairs. That's the situation at uniform school. Who's responsible for this? Who is responsible for this chaos? What else must happen to students so that they do not have to seek help in the media and on the Internet so that they can normally go home or be placed in a decent quarantine so that they are equipped with personal protective equipment to ensure their health? These are the people who will protect in the future, they will provide assistance. Who oversees high school? Who's responsible for this? Because it's a shame and a disgrace. What example do we set? Where are the procedures? A school that's supposed to follow all the rules is breaking all the rules. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I ask you to answer the question: Who is responsible for the chaos in fire school? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u94	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. If there is no Member, then Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. I can't see either. Then I would like to ask Mrs Monica Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are videos in the media showing the hallways, the floors, the benches of the students. Those weren't makeshift conditions. It's outrageous. And that's what happened: to minimize the symptoms of the virus, to accuse students of simulating the disease, to implement a plan to infect practically everyone, and to threaten them. In a word: scandal. A scandal and great chaos, Minister. On April 14th, the media reported that the sick classes were stopped, but collections and appeals were held all the time. According to the students, the most important thing to command is now cleaning school grounds. I'd like you to comment on that. Ladies and gentlemen! We are witnessing, above all, gross incompetence: professional incompetence and command incompetence. The consequences haven't been lifted until today, because it's you, Minister, who's responsible for what happened there. It is you, Minister Kaminski, who should resign, and if you do not have the courage, if you do not have the honour, then Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u96	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How many tragedies could be avoided if tests were carried out from the very beginning? It is not the duty of the rector to test and detect the virus. How many places in Poland where the threat of infection is the subject of someone's opinion rather than medical procedures? What procedures, Minister, are in other schools, including your subordinates, e.g. At the Police College in Szczytno? 340 healthy men, sickly fire school. Today, they could serve society, help in social services homes, health care establishments, hospices, palliative medicine departments. They're all in quarantine. The same situation, High Izbo, is in the Military Technical Academy: 350 sick and four WAT soldiers are in quarantine, in 11 people were found to be infected with the coronavirus. Minister! Are there procedures - in situations where there is suspicion, and we are dealing with a collective, which is usually decorated, lives in a student home - for rapid action? This is a specific case. That is what we are appealing to you today, and that is what we expect from you. There can't be that kind of situation. I would also like Minister Kaminski to take an interest in the situation in Mazowsze. What you're doing, Governor Radziwiłł, is an incredible scandal. There's a law on infections, there's a law that talks about what kind of people you can't give a work order because they're excluded. These are, Minister, people over the age of 60, those taking care of minors. The governor Radziwiłł gives these people work orders and then punishes them financially. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This case of a mother feeding a five-month-old child is extremely unusual and I appeal to you to analyze this issue and draw the consequences of the Radziwiłłła voivodeship.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u98	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! According to Onenet, at the Fire Department General School, people who are infected with food are being distributed healthy as ordered by the command. They're supposed to do this without enough security. The students of this school, calling the duty officer in connection with the end-of-the-line disinfectants, hear the answer that they're supposed to get. Minister! Is that government policy? Is that your ministry's policy? You barter people, you put responsibilities on them, and then you say, "Let them organize their own protection." This is ridiculous. I don't know if the Minister identifies himself with such conduct, but if I were you, I'd just resign. This means that your people - those you have chosen, nominated, placed on the stand - do not meet the highest demands that people who have been placed in such a serious position during an epidemic, that is, in times of danger to the health and life of people. Meanwhile, the actions you've taken -- those you've appointed, those you've sent to educate the future fire department... These people didn't do their job. They put these young people at risk of losing their health and their lives. What is more, what example do people, who later are to save citizens from various threats, receive from their management, from the management that was sent there by the Minister? Minister! If you can deny it, deny it. If you confirm what Onet quoted, what I just read... In this situation, a genuine politician who is aimed at the welfare of the state is resigned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, are you a real politician for the good of the state? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u100	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Taking advantage of the fact that I have the opportunity to ask the Minister a question, I wanted to ask a little more. This is not just about the situation at the Main School of the Fire Service in Warsaw. We hear from all over Poland that when it comes to services throughout the country, no procedures have been implemented regarding the work of the government aimed at combating Coronavirus and the fight against the epidemic. Of course, the best example is the situation discussed today at the Main School of the Fire Service in Warsaw. Therefore, I have a question: Minister, why, knowing that the virus is attacking and that it is particularly dangerous, and that large groups of people are exposed to infection in confined places - the gathering of young people - have not implemented any procedures to safeguard the lives and health of people living in such facilities? Today we have a fire at the Main School of the Fire Service in Warsaw, but in fact in many closed places there are such problems and it may not be the only case. My second question is extremely important. Why were the services in Poland not equipped with personal protective equipment? We hear that volunteers from all over Poland collect personal protective equipment for police officers and firefighters, equip them to work in conditions that are safe for their lives and health every day. This should not be the fight against the pandemic, so that people in the framework of volunteering secure the health and life of those saving us (the Bell) is life. Therefore, Minister, I ask, will you finally professionally equip the police, the guards and other services with personal protective equipment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u102	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wiesław Szczepański.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u103	I'm sorry I took my mask off for a second. I'll read better. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The firefighters' banners say: God for glory, men for salvation. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the period, our underdogs did not receive adequate help. There's an intimidating state of fire in primary school right now. The Rector today threatens students with disciplinary consequences for their comments on the Internet and social media. He suggests that he will write a motion to hold the first degree of duty to those who will describe the situation there. Don't you think this case should be addressed to the Ombudsman? It should be considered that school management has shown complete ignorance when it comes to problems reported by their pupils. This is a conscious risk of loss of health and life. According to my club, there's a need to replace all the executives at school, not just the deputy rector of your brig. Jarosław Zarzycki. He was responsible for the operation of the JRG of the primary school, but after his dismissal, he was responsible for these duties. Tomasz Klimczak, who is also the head of the school divisions so far. He also accused students of simulating. We don't think there's much communication. on the line the main command of the fire department - the main school - the Ministry of Internal Affairs. College staff may not report to the district health centre in bad health. They hear there: The notification will not even be registered. You're all university employees, but this university's employees are the M.S.W.A.'s health department. People are suspended all the time. They don't know if they're sick or if they're infecting their loved ones. Nobody wants to help them. The M.E.W.A. Health Department isn't answering their phone. Minister, yesterday I called the number several times and no one answered. I think you should clean it up. How is it that the General Command of the State Fire Department from journalist Onet learned that 12 students didn't have test results the day before yesterday? Are you going to call the D.A.? She should start an investigation into what happened at school. Another vulnerable group are the inhabitants of Żoliborza, the neighbors of this school. Perhaps they are also infected, because even a week ago students walked, sometimes groups, all over Żoliborz. Some of the sick people from Warsaw were transported to a similar school in Częstochowa, risking cadets in this school. What's funny, Minister, this group was sent there without any guardian. The future officers are to be guarded by the future ensigns. In 2016, the Sejm passed a law on anti-terrorist activities. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, implementing the dispositions resulting from the Act, amended on 17 July 2017 the regulation on the detailed organisation of the national rescue and fire-fighting system. In § Point 4 (3) states that the organisation of the operation of the CRSG by the Chief Fire Commissioner in the country includes, in particular, the development of rules for dealing with the threat of unidentified consignments and the organisation of the transport of biological materials, as well as the development of rules for dealing with the risk of particularly dangerous and highly contagious diseases. Has the current regulation established rules for dealing with the risk of particularly dangerous and highly contagious diseases prior to the appearance of Coronavirus? Has TSOs and PSPs been provided with the necessary personal protective equipment for firefighters who can participate in the supporting activities referred to in the laws? Have rules been developed in case of large-scale infections in a fire school? Have rules been developed to interact with competent authorities and bodies during emergency events caused by a biological factor threat? There's been a lot of questions. I think it would be good for the Minister to answer them in writing. Has it been developed, or has everything failed? My club is looking forward to explaining this situation and making the right decisions, including personal decisions. You're saying the university misled the Chief of State Fire Department. But I ask, who is responsible for this school? Just setting up a committee of inquiry by the Chief of State Fire Department isn't enough. Today we know that through contact with the sick people several cadets from the fire school in Poznań are at risk, because they were together on the field in Drawsk. Do you intend, Minister, to dismiss, I think, the head of the university's rector, as well? If you don't do it yourself, my club will consider making a motion to the D.A.'s office against the guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u104	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask you to respond to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I came here not to perform, not to respond to political upheavals, but to present information, because we are at the point: Information on current matters. On the basis of your questions, ladies and gentlemen, it would seem that everything is falling apart, that the services are not functioning. etc. No, it's exactly... Ladies and gentlemen, now I speak to the public and ours. All uniformed services under the Ministry of Home Affairs perform their tasks 100% , and even more than 100% 200%. Police officers, Border Guards, fire departments are really doing their job for citizens at this extremely difficult time. No one's questioning that. Don't interrupt me like I didn't interrupt you. In your questions, ladies and gentlemen, you have provided extremely detailed information, and every moment I have heard from behind my back from the chief fire chiefs: it is not true, it is not true, it is not true. Please stop colluding from the seym stand fake news. I'm asking you for some kind of elementary responsibility and public loyalty. You are public officials, and your goal should not be to spread rumors from the Seym Court, to sell some ridiculous, untrue, disturbing information to citizens. You have participated several times in meetings in recent weeks with representatives of the government as a representative of the opposition. Every time you asked me about the alleged lack of disinfectants at the police headquarters. I'm asking you about specific commands. I asked you and your colleagues. Give me some examples. It's all not true. All services that operate on the first line: fire department, border guard, police, are secured by personal security measures. Minister, as I asked yesterday, it's... But, sir, let us speak now. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: We're dealing with one extremely unpleasant incident. I take it as a very sad incident. I'm ashamed of the sick fire school that the authority of the university didn't act loyally toward them, didn't show them proper trust. There is a committee that will explain all aspects. The first person in the management to underestimate a situation that believed that the underdogs were cheating that they were simulating that they wanted to go home for Christmas had already suffered consequences. The truth turned out to be different and the consequences would be drawn to everyone. I'm extremely, I can only say this, I'm glad that none of the sick people require hospitalization today, and I hope that's not going to happen. I hope that everyone will come out with a defensive hand from a situation that shouldn't have happened, but this is a completely individual situation. And a whole series of detailed information, which here in these questions or pseudopythings fell, was untrue. Of course, we will respond in writing to all of this. And what I'm trying to say is that after five days from the first signal, all the sick people, all of them, were tested. The next tests will be carried out again within 5 and 7 days. 51 cases have been detected - this is a very large and disturbing scale - on 386 people to whom tests have been carried out. We're gonna take care of these sick people. It is obvious completely, it is our duty and no one here does grace to anyone. The first person at the university had consequences. There's a committee called by the chief. Nobody's gonna hide anything in here under a cork. And I inform you that this was my first and only personal decision so far as Minister of the Interior of Mariusz Kaminski to the authorities of this university. I didn't call these people. They're here. The first person has already lost their function. If necessary, they'll lose another one. If we think they're guilty of chickening out that they didn't face this challenge at the level of the task, no one here will hide anyone, regardless of who, who, whose brother was doing the surgery. Enough of this narration. The situation is really serious, and have a public responsibility to the citizens too, so as not to talk stupidly here. All uniformed services are secure and all uniformed officers are protected by personal protective equipment. And please don't say such nonsense here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u106	This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. May I? I'm declaring a time-out. 14. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 38 hrs. 14 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We'll start by checking the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 441 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. I inform that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act, the amendment on climate change adopted at Lillafüred on 12 October 2017 to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians, drawn up in Kiev on 22 May 2003. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print No 329. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Geodetic and Cartographic Law and some other laws. The report shall be published in print no 333. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item 11 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, print No 274, will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. With formal conclusions, you're welcome. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u107	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We are living in a time of epidemic that affects many fellow citizens, and for economic reasons it will certainly affect large numbers of our country. Therefore, pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 of the resolution of the Sejm on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I submit a formal request for the adjournment of the sitting in order to examine the request for withdrawal from the agenda of today's sitting of the Sejm point which includes the information of the prosecutor general - the Minister of Justice on the stage at which the proceedings concerning the political assassination of President Paweł Adamowicz are taking place. Two words of justification. There are important things, but there are basic, extra-ordinary things, and that's the time today. Undoubtedly it wasn't a typical homicide, it was a consciously planned homicide. A request for information from the Attorney General was filed three months ago. He was lying down. In view of the situation, I apply for the withdrawal of this request. At the same time, I trust your marshal that, because this proposal will be renewed, you will allow him in a more favorable manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u108	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to clarify that this will be the subject of today's vote, that's what it is. So that I will not put this proposal to the vote, because this is on the agenda of today's proceedings, Mr President. Here you go, with a formal proposal from Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u109	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We learn of this without any surprise, but nodding our heads, and we accept that your marshal has advised us not to allow any questions before today's vote. I understand your marshal confirms his decision. I therefore request that the agenda be completed, which, of course, would have to be formally carried out by managing the break by collecting the Seniors' Convention, so that at least representatives of citizens' projects present in the building of the Polish Sejm, Kaja Godek, Robert Bąkiewicz and Mariusz Dzierżawski can speak. Perhaps there are other representatives of the applicants. We very much ask that citizens, hundreds of thousands, in total, these are numbers going into millions (the bell), Poles have a voice in this room at the moment when the fate of Poland is weighed when the votes are to be... Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. This is not a formal proposal, Mr President. You know that very well. ...so important for security, Polish wealth, Polish life...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u110	Please, with a formal request by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 submitted a draft law. I have a request for your marshal to order a recess for your marshal to convene the Convention so that we can quickly renegotiate the bill on the provision of free protective masks for all residents of Poland. The government has made certain decisions that we have to wear masks, a veiled face. The mask is the best way, not the scarf, just the mask. In order for this to take place efficiently throughout the country, citizens should have free access to such masks after this decision. Today, the local government is fulfilling its purpose. Even if in Lewin Brzeski Paweł Kukiz together with the mayor, he provides masks to local residents today. This is what happens in many places in Poland. But it is the role of the state and the role of the government to provide free masks. We need to adopt this Free Masks Act as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u112	Thank you, sir, thank you very much. But I wanted to say... You know perfectly well that this is not a formal conclusion. Mr President, do you wish to make a request for a break so that we can... The counterclaim, the counterclaim, the counterclaim. We're asking for scarves. They'll come in handy for the winter. I can hear you, sir. I address Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Are we voting on a request for a break? You know I'm not gonna call the Seniors Convention because we set a schedule. You're pulling out. Isn't that a request for a break, sir? I believe your marshal will call. No. Then let's vote for a recess. Mr Adamowicz, because I didn't really understand what you were saying. I understand you're withdrawing... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I get it, okay. It does not need to be voted as a formal proposal and it will not be in the votes we have before us. Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 214 - for, 229 - against, 6 stopped. The motion didn't go through. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Left, with a formal request. Please. Ueberhan. I'm sorry, because it's handy... Mrs Ueberhan, Left, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request to order a break, to convene a Senior Convention on the basis of Article. Paragraph 184. 2, point (b) is replaced by the following: Section 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Please include on the agenda of the Left Project liberalising the law liberalising access to abortion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u114	Thank you, Member. The conclusion, of course, is pointless. You know that very well. We return to the consideration of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on amending the law - Hunting Law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print 49 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 171 - for, 270 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Civil Property Protection Act in the Republic of Poland against claims relating to uninherited property. The following requests were made in the discussion: - to reject the draft law at first reading, - to join the second reading without delay, without referring the draft to the committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 282 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 179 - for, 259 - against, 15 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill, without referring to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request to immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft law in print No 282, without referring to the committee, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 26 - for, 420 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent the proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997 - Penal Code. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 39 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 199 - for, 246 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print no. 36 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 187 - for, 254 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer this draft law to the Health Committee and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring it back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request to immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft law in print no. 36, without referring to the committee, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 68 - for, 375 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent the proposal to the Health Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 251-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Płonka to submit an additional report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u115	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the second reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, seven amendments were tabled. The Commission, following its meeting yesterday, proposes two amendments. These are amendments concerning the codification of the date of entry into force of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u116	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law on printing No 251. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes amendments to Article. 43b. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes a different wording in point 1 of Article. 43b. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 207 - for, 244 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 4 draft amending act. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 441 - for, 13 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant shall propose to give a different wording to paragraph 5. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 212 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant shall propose to give a different wording to paragraph 5. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 221 - for, 238 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 251, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 447 for, 5 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Geodesy and Cartographic Law and some other laws (Prints No. 272 and 333). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law - Geographical and Cartographic Law and some other laws, print No 272. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 18 March 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 15 April 2020, asks the High Sejm to accept the amendments of the Senate as set out in paragraph 1 - except that amendments 1 and 6 are voted together - reject, amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 reject, amendment 10 accept, amendments 11, 12, 13. This is what the Infrastructure Committee is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u118	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 Act containing amendments to the Act - Geometric and Cartographic Law. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes amendments to points 7a and 7b. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 235 was in favor, 219 against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 12 The Senate proposes among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (3) delete point (a) I. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 235 - for, against - 223, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 12b. 1 The Senate proposes to delete point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 232 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 12b The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 234 - for, 222 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 12b The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes not to add an article. 12ca. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment to the Annex to the Senate Act, it proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 235 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 9th Amendment to the annex to the Act in Table 6 the Senate proposes not to change the third column. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 234 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. Point 3 (4). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. Five for, 452 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. The 43th Construction Law of the Senate proposes not to repeal paragraph 1. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 245 - for, 209 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 12, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 9th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 234-- for, 223-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the annex to the Act, table 16a of the Senate proposes a reduction in the amount of fees. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 221 - against, 2 stopped. I state that the Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law amending the law - Geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws. With a formal proposal from Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. One minute. Please. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u119	Dear Marshal! If you don't mind, I would like to make a formal request for a recess and to supplement the agenda with information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the dramatic situation of permanent residence facilities in the Mazowieckie voivodship and unlawful actions of the Mazowieckie voivodeship. Mrs. Marshal! A country that can't protect the weakest and the most vulnerable can't protect anyone. Such protection and support is not provided by the Mazowieckie Voivode. This is shown by the places where the coronavirus appeared, and the voivode equipped with statutory competence turned out to be completely helpless. This inability is symbolized by places such as Bobrowiecka, Tomczyce, Niedabyl, Rusiec, Grojec or Radom. The second point, Mrs Marshal, is - I am now referring to the Prime Minister - the issue of unlawful work orders. Mr. Radziwiłł does not apply the law on infectious diseases. The employment order includes those over the age of 60, mothers who take care of children alone and, for example, mothers like you who are currently on maternity leave, feeds a 5-month-old child. There are 5,000 penalties imposed on these people. This case is appalled because we are dealing with the total inability of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. I have the impression that Mr. Radziwiłł is threatening the health security of this voivodship at the moment. Prime Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please inform us to complete the agenda. Thank you, sir. This is absolutely important. We can't part without taking care of this case, Marshal. Mr President, yes, but I have heard this question today on current issues. You know perfectly well that this is not a formal conclusion. So... No, this is a recess request, Marshal. No, sir, please check the rules. This is not a formal conclusion. There has already been a request for a break that we have voted on, but the agenda, Mr... But this is another break. This is the situation that we're dealing with that's annoying for all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u120	I see. The agenda was set and therefore I cannot put this proposal to the vote. Formal proposal, Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Request for a moment of reflection from the Prime Minister and from the majority of Parliament. We are about to vote on the introduction of government information on the next threat ahead of us, namely the issue of the drought disaster. Unfortunately, since 7 January this year, when we submitted this proposal, there was no concrete information from the government. It is very important to protect Poles from what can come: drought, but also issues of high food prices. In this House, the Minister for Climate Affairs should stand up and say how the state wants to fight the consequences of perhaps the greatest drought in many years. This is where the Minister of Climate should stand, which should respond to Poles, how we will fight the threat (The Bell) of high food prices. Thank you very much. Your marshal, we have a rather long break later, so it would be time to consider this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u122	Thank you very much, sir. You know perfectly well that the request for a recess has been voted out. You also know as head of the club and member of the Senior Convention that we have discussed this matter. We'll be voting on this in a minute. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the Minister of Climate about: - the current threat to the safety of Poles resulting from the deepening climate crisis, i.e. droughts, increase in average temperatures, unforeseen weather events, fire risks - such as unprecedented fires in Australia, - shortcomings in the development and submission of the public opinion and the competent authorities of the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021/2030 and the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021/2020 (so-called "National Energy and Climate Plan 2021"). long-term strategy) - tabled by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens; - Information from the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on work on increasing pension and pension benefits, with particular regard to the amount of the minimum pension - reported by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron); - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on possible abuses in the disposal of funds from the operational fund of the Central Anti-Corruption Office, as well as the actions that have been taken as a result of the detection of possible irregularities, in particular the response to whether it has actually been submitted and the resignation of the Head of the Central Anti-Corruption Office has not been accepted - notified by the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greeni; - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the withdrawal of a significant amount of money from the operational fund of the Central Anti-corruption Office and improper supervision of this service - reported by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring Robert Biedron); - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance on the activities undertaken by the Commission for Financial Supervision and the Bank Guarantee Fund on the restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok - notified by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens; - Information from the Minister of Finance on the compulsory restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank and KNF activities - reported by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron). As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal for information from the Climate Minister. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 214 - for, 240 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal on information on the work on increasing pension and pension benefits. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information on possible abuses in the disposal of funds from the Central Anti-corruption Office's operational fund. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the withdrawal of a significant amount of money from the Central Anti-corruption Office's operational fund. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information on the activities undertaken by the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bank Guarantee Fund on the restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information on the compulsory restructuring of Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank and KNF activities. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. That concludes the first round of votes today. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Senate was due to begin voting time. At 12:30, he started at 12:00. 15.20, everything's moving. I therefore declare a time-out. 23. Until 3 p.m. 23? Yeah, by the time. 23. And you can't do it in the morning... Madame, I would rather ask you to appeal to the Senate. The vote was supposed to be at an hour. 12.30 a.m., and the Senate moved them to 12.30 a.m. 15.20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 43 hours 23 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed with the quorum. Therefore, please press any button to confirm the presence of the meeting. 439 Members are present. I'm declaring a quorum. I would like to inform you that the Senate has adopted without amendment a law on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes following the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. As a result, item 12 of the agenda has become obsolete. With a formal proposal from Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u123	Good evening. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! But somebody has to say that you could do it. Otherwise, you could now order a recess, quickly convene the Senior Convention, which I would like, and put an end to this practice of rejoining the rhyme, the races between midnight. and closer to the indeterminate hours of the morning. Have at least as much decency as you're pushing here in this room or actually in virtual space as you like, but have the decency to let us read what we're actually voting on here. We are trying very hard, and we have specially done quick reading courses to get our parliamentary qualifications. Let us proceed well on this, dignifiedly (the bell), in accordance with the law, with the rules. Let's not stretch the law... Thank you, sir. ...like gum from underwear. I therefore formally requested a break in order to convene the Senior Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u124	There's been a request for a recess. We'll vote on it. I'm not gonna call the convention, but the request for a break is legal, so we're gonna vote for a recess. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? After all, the committee's report appeared on the pages of the Sejm's meeting only after the session was resumed. 452 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, 5 stopped. The motion was rejected. The board showed something else, Marshal. I've got the board right in front of me. Formal proposal, Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you to adjourn until noon. 9. To the fact that you don't respect the opposition, we're used to it, but you're violating fundamental workers' rights. You have a party that fights for social rights, but the people here are working against the Labour Code. Can't you organize the simple work of the Sejm? You're pretending it's a big deal about the crisis, like we can't do it in the morning. Let's stop with the sham of the state. The fact that you, Mr President, hate parliamentarians, I understand, but let's not bring the Polish Sejm into a trap, let's not violate workers' rights. Don't show everyone where you got them. Respect the basic rules. We're ready to work. I mean, if we start tomorrow at an hour. Nine, then we can do it according to the law. But no, you're faking it, you're making a big drink. You want to pretend how hard you're working, and tomorrow you're gonna patch that shield again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where are the financial solutions? Thank you, sir. There aren't any. Mr... You are responsible, Your Marshal, for organizing the Sejm's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u126	No, no, sir, we're not at work, we're on duty. That's one thing. I'm talking about employees, not us. Secondly, Mr President, you were the first to declare your work, your hard work, and that is what we are doing. Please fire your employees. You're violating labour law. Thirdly, Mr President, I said in that part of the Sejm that if the Senate had given us this as planned, at noon. 13.30, that is what we would have done earlier, sir. That's bullshit. This is bullshit and bullshit. Therefore, as a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? This is a new normality. 452 Members voted. 220 was for, 232 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (prints 340 and 341). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u127	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance has examined the Senate resolution addressed by you to the Committee on Public Finance, the Senate resolution on the Seym Act on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. After considering the bill, the Senate proposed 95 amendments. The Commission has examined all the amendments today and recommends that the High House adopt 45 amendments from among those proposed by the Senate and 50 amendments are proposed to be rejected. Among these amendments were legislative amendments - 18 but also 27 substantive amendments, which the committee recommends to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u128	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Formal conclusion. Formal conclusion. Mr. Marshal Terlecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is extraordinary. Poland is waiting for our decisions. The Sejm's office has to prepare the proper documents to get them on the President's desk, and this is where every day counts. One hour. I therefore request a joint vote: on amendments recommended by the committee and on amendments recommended by the committee. Of course, a third vote on this proposal is still necessary. This is a formal conclusion, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u130	Thank you. Voice against, Marshal. I hear there's a vote against it. Mr Boris Budka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I'm against that conclusion. You're just proving that I was right. This is making a farce out of Parliament. You're proposing a blind vote. You won't even know what you're voting on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time, you will reject an amendment guaranteeing a lot more tests, including tests for all medical personnel, i.e. That's what you want to do. Listen to the voice of your colleagues, e.g. Mr Soszer, who says clearly: Do you want to freeze the economy? You have to run tens of thousands of tests a day. You're about to throw away the money that's meant to be. Think, my dears, whether you want a real change, a real save for the economy, whether you do it again like the Prime Minister for many, many months - only a powerpoint drink. What you're proposing is making a farce out of parliament, but also a farce out of Poles, it's a joke out of Poles. It's not just a limousine entrance to a closed cemetery anymore, but it's laughing in the face of millions of people who are waiting for help today. Mr... Let's talk substantively. Any amendment is worth accepting. I guarantee it. The Senate, your marshal, focused on bringing good things into your hole shield. We promised hard work. We have fulfilled our obligation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. So let's work. Together. Every amendment is your own, because every amendment is your conscience. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-sejm-10-2.u132	Thank you, sir. I propose to apply Resolution No 4 of the Polish Sejm of 7 March 2001 on the interpretation of the article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I propose that the Sejm vote jointly on the amendments: - 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 13, 16, 18, 19, 21 to 26, 42 to 45, 48 to 51, 55 to 57, 59 to 66, 70, 73, 74, 80, 81, 83 to 85, 89 to 92, 94 and 95, - 2nd, 4th, 8th to 12th, 14th, 15th, 17th, 20th, 27th to 41st, 46th, 47th, 52nd to 54th, 58th, 67th to 69, 71nd, 72nd, 75th to 79, 82nd, 86th to 88th and 93rd. Objection. I heard an objection. Therefore, I will put this objection to the vote, and I will actually put my proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal for a joint vote on the Senate amendments, as proposed by me, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 for, 222 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the joint examination of amendments 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 13, 16, 18, 19, 21 to 26, 42 to 45, 48 to 51, 55 to 57, 59 to 66, 70, 73, 74, 80, 81, 83 to 85, 89 to 92, 94 and 95. Formal conclusion. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. Mr President, we are in the middle of a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of... Formal request to change the vote. We are in the middle of a vote, sir, please sit down. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 2 for, 451 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. We proceed to the joint examination of amendments 2, 4, 8 to 12, 14, 15, 17, 20, 27 to 41, 46, 47, 52 to 54, 58, 67 to 69, 71, 72, 75 to 79, 82, 86 to 88 and 93. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Grzegorz, we're voting. Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 257 - for, against - 195, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 10th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Information on the date and agenda of the 11th session of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 42]]
