ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please slowly silence your conversations and take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today we will begin our deliberations by considering the point concerning the second reading of the draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union. After considering this point, we will proceed with the examination of paragraph 16 concerning the Law amending the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, according to yesterday's information, after considering these points at the request of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, we will consider points ten, eleven, twelve and thirteen, i.e. Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund, the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, the Law on Plant Protection against pests, the Act amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and certain other laws. Subsequent items on the agenda will then be considered from item seven. Let me remind you that points one through six were already considered yesterday. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. The draft is contained in print No 42 and the committee's report In print No 42 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which carried out the first reading of the project on 30 January this year. The project sets out the principles and modalities of creation and the functioning of the Łódź metropolitan union. The aim of this relationship is to improve the performance of public tasks, in particular those related to transport infrastructure. The proposed solutions are modelled on the solutions adopted for the Silesian metropolis. Today it is the only metropolitan team operating in practice in Poland. We took advantage of the regulations contained in that draft law. The draft law is the implementation of the demand of local communities, municipalities of the Łódź metropolis, expectations of residents, and above all it is a real tool for solving important problems of a transcendence nature. The draft law was discussed, in which the senators discussed issues, among others. depopulation of Łódź, integration of municipalities into the metropolitan union or the possibility of coming out of it. At first reading, I tabled amendments to the bill, resulting from the comments submitted during the consultation on the rules for changes to the area and borders of the metropolitan union or the rules for leaving the metropolitan area and extending the scope of the relationship. I would like to thank the representatives of the government who have joined the work very warmly and very warmly at this point. They made written comments, presented their views in direct talks, so that this project could be improved somehow. In a special way, I am directing this thank you to the hands of the Minister Paul the Chief Executive present in the Chamber. Thank you, Minister, for the dialogue on this project. I would also like to thank the many local governments who are senators in this Chamber. Thank you, Senator Frankiewicz, Senator Tyszkiewicz. Their many years of experience in the functioning of the local government have been extremely helpful in preparing the final shape of this project. The committees have introduced all the amendments tabled into the proposed bill, which are included in print No 42 S. The text of the bill was adopted by 10 votes in favour, no votes against, and 8 senators abstained. Adoption of the project without objections I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber very warmly for this approach to the bill. On behalf of the committee, I request that the bill presented be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u3	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Arthur Dunin... And Jackowski. ...and Senator Jackowski. The first was Senator Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Me with a quick question. More local governments came forward, among others. Municipality of Łask, district of grace. Is there a chance, Mr President, to complement, expand the metropolitan area by further counties? The City of Grace has been running very effectively for many years, and I know what I am saying, because for 12 years I was also a Member from this area... She is very involved in urban green initiatives. Conferences, involvement in the development of green areas in the city... After all, the boat will organize the so-called. Green Expo. Could another county join the Łódź metropolis? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u5	Thank you, senator, for the question. The Metropolitan Union is an association of municipalities characterised by strong functional links and the advancement of urbanization processes located in a spatially coherent area. 1 draft law. Why am I quoting him right now? Because the obvious thing is that they have a metropolitan relationship, but such maintaining these spatial and functional relationships, bigger, the better it is from his point of view, because it can perform its tasks more efficiently. Local government officials from the county of grace have made such a request. After all, there is still a legislative process ahead of us, if the High House shares the opinion that this project is to be a legislative initiative of the Senate in the Sejm, that they will prepare opinions of recognised experts, e.g. in the field of spatial policy, in the context of analysis, how far these spatial and functional relationships link the city of Łódź with the surrounding municipalities belonging to the nearby powiats reach. And when we get this analysis, of course, we'll be able to talk, e.g. at the next stage of legislative work in the second House. When preparing this project, with the catalogue of municipalities so marked in the proposed composition of the agglomeration, we were based on opinions which were available and which were commissioned by the Marshal of the Łódź Voivodeship, and we were also following an example of the already functioning Łódź Metropolitan Area. You must know. I'll still have a chance to talk about it in the discussion. The proposal of this metropolitan union is based on existing cooperation between municipalities, with different conditions. For example, the particularity of the Łódź metropolis is not, as in the Silesian area, that certain transport tasks are carried out by a metropolis based on the established company. In practice in Łódź it already operates not on the basis of an agreement or inter-city relationship, but on the Łódź company MPK, which operates the surrounding municipalities, for example in the field of rail transport, especially tram or bus transport. As far as the other municipalities are concerned, it is necessary to consider whether these spatial relationships function and then make a decision. I'm still sorry. I'm going to extend the answer a little bit. The analysis of the target model is conditioned by what the experience of the Silesian metropolis shows. This is in the opinion of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The point is to determine if the model is working. I would like to inform you today and in a special way I direct these words to the senators from Silesia that you have the right to be proud of how the only metropolis operating today works, because the Upper Silesian-Zębie Metropolis started on 1 January 2018 with the budget of PLN 370 million and the budget for 2020 is already over PLN 1 billion. And this is the decision of the municipalities of the metropolitan area. Why? Participation in PIT is growing in the Silesian metropolis. Last year it was over 400 million. These more than 600 million are the result of decisions by municipalities forming part of the Silesian metropolis, which jointly carry out their tasks. So they themselves decided to increase the metropolitan budget, with particular emphasis on transport policy, but not only. Ladies and gentlemen, why should I encourage you to support this project? Poland is a little bit in such a situation that we manage where we deal with some less complex public tasks, e.g. social projects. You have an example of the 500+ project. But any in-depth analysis shows that the institutions of the Polish state have a greater challenge when they come in contact with a more complex decision-making process and an area for which the state institutions are responsible. That's the way it is. in health care. And what does it turn out to be? Upper Silesian Metropolitan Team...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u6	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt... I'm sorry, it's gonna be time... We're in the middle of questions and answers. The possibility of debate is, of course, unlimited, but at the moment I would very much ask you to focus on questions and answers. Sorry about your enthusiasm. I will limit myself in this respect. I share these feelings because the idea is noble and probably good for local governments, but let's stick to this stage of the debate. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. First of all, as I understand it, in relation to the original project, it is possible to withdraw the municipality from the structure proposed by the Act. My question is: what if a municipality, which is a significant spatial-geographical-communicative-social element of this structure, doesn't want to join the union? What happens then? Will this affect the efficiency of this structure? Well, what's it gonna be like? Well, technically, we can assume that this could happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we would not present this project without the certainty that the municipalities which are mentioned in the original submission are 28 municipalities, including the city on the rights of the district of Łódź and 27 municipalities from the 4 counties surrounding the city of Łódź. I'm after talking to all the local authorities, the mobs, the mayors, the presidents whose communes would be part of the proposed metropolitan union. On their part is such a declaration, everyone is interested in the accession of the municipalities to the union. Of course, in the coming months we will have the procedure described in the Act, which is similar to that procedure, which was in the case of the Silesian metropolis. A formal public consultation is held in all municipalities and every time a resolution of the municipal council on accession must be issued. We have absolutely no indication that any municipality would not want to be included in the metropolitan union. On the contrary, as Senator Dunin said, today we are dealing with demands and requests from additional municipalities, which also asked to be included within the limits of the metropolitan union. So I assume this question is theoretical. Of course, the law also provides for such a procedure that the municipality adopts a resolution on wishing to speak. Well, it finally regulates it. 'Cause that's the government's competence, the government's dominion. A regulation of the Council of Ministers setting the final limits of the metropolitan union, of course in accordance with the procedure described in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u9	Does the senator want to ask you an additional question? Because we have... Yes, Mr. Marshal. That's another question I'd like to ask you. But if you don't mind, I'll give you a voice one at a time. Okay? Good. Right now, Mr. Senator Antoni the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u10	Mr. Senator, I don't know if you remember what the first metropolitan bill was. It was universal, creating a framework for the metropolis, it was not a law devoted to a particular metropolis. This framework provided more opportunities, not just for the creation of one or the other metropolis. Shouldn't we go back to that because the solution was much better? With such laws, dedicated to particular metropolitan areas, political factors will very often decide. It seems that Silesia has benefited from this political situation which was then created, and this has resulted in the creation of that metropolitan law. She was also modelled on our original universal law. I think that would be a better solution. Wouldn't it be worth coming back to that? If it doesn't work out, it's probably because of political conflicts. In implementing this law, should we not go back to a more universal law, such as we had in our first approach to these metropolises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u11	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u12	Thank you, senator, for the question. These were two slightly different philosophies of creating metropolitan relationships. Philosophy related to the 2015 Act, as the senator said, was such a philosophy to create a universal act, a metropolitan law, in which the conditions for creating a metropolis will be recorded. No, if these conditions are formally fulfilled at a given location I'm simplifying, of course. A metropolis may be established. However, in the case of the 2015 Act, no implementing acts were attached to it. The government subsequently changed its philosophy in 2017. I do not judge which is better, I merely present to you the timetable of events, indicating that this base law was in the assessment of the applicants at that time a worse solution. It was argued that each metropolis had its own characteristics and that each time a metropolis should be invoked by a separate legal act, adapted in some way to the specifics of the region concerned. And we, when we prepare this bill... I didn't get into a discussion, which one of these approaches is better, because each one has its positive pluses and negative pluses, as the classic would say. However, from the fact that the bill for the Silesian metropolis, the assumptions that were constructed there... It was very clear: the next metropolis will be created on the basis of the experience of the Silesian metropolis. In the discussion, I will give you a more detailed description of the stage of development of the Silesian metropolis. And further: we have constructed a draft law on the Łódź metropolis in accordance with the applicable regulations. So the bill was prepared to suit the needs of the Łódź Metropolitan Union, but it was written on the basis of the principles of the Śląsko- Zagłębian Metropolis Act. Also because... Of course, you all have more comfort in making decisions, and I will remind you that the law on the Silesian-Sluggish metropolis was adopted by the voices of all clubs, i.e. the Civic Platform, and the Law and Justice Platform, and all clubs in the Sejm. Therefore, today, when we have a similar law and records are modelled on the Silesian metropolis, I count on a similar broad consensus of all when it comes to the adoption of this project. The legislator has decided that we are going along the path of billing projects for individual metropolitan teams. It's not for me to argue with. If the legislator changes this decision, then there will be a return to the philosophy that was in 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u13	Thank you very much. I'd just like to ask. Question, right? Good. There are more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u14	I'd just like to ask. I'm from Torun, as you know. The Toruń-Bedgo area is such a classic metropolitan area. We already have a metropolitan relationship... It's a form of pain, but we already have an approach.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u15	I think I'd rather take that as a comment. than as a question. The question is asked by Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have three short questions. The first is when one of the municipalities wants to leave the metropolitan union. Is it possible to block such an exit from a relationship? The second point concerns the absence of transitional provisions in this law. This is an example. The relationship is to deal with issues related to waste management, but municipalities are likely to already manage these waste when they enter the union. The question is: how will it be in transition? Here it is categorically written that waste management is to be within the scope of the metropolitan union. The last, perhaps the most important, issue concerns the idea of establishing distinguished areas in the territory of the Republic, which have a slightly different status than the rest of the Republic. It's about income. The metropolitan union in its income census has a share of personal income tax and this is a 5% share. The municipalities, of course, add up to this, but only in the range of 0.5%. I'm talking about stable condition once the relationship's in place. So it pays to be in a metropolitan relationship for the reason that you get 10 times more out of the state money than you put yourself into the union. However, this means that the 5% That goes into a relationship will not go to other communities outside the union. The question arises: how does this apply to the sustainable development of the country? Are we going to have enclaves like this, metropolitan compounds... Let me remind you that the name itself indicates that. Other areas are generally surrounded by metropolises, which are doing great in which industry itself is located. These are some points of focus with critical mass due to the corresponding population and infrastructure. Well, and the rest will be marginalized in a way, because that income tax money is a certain pot. If they go into a relationship or to municipalities that are in a relationship, they will automatically be lacking in peripheral areas outside of metropolitan unions. Is that really what the law is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the questions of Senator Czerwinski. Firstly, as regards the procedure for the departure of the municipality from the metropolitan union, this has been taken into account with your conclusions in the amendment. In a special way, I draw your attention to Article. 7 and 8. There's a procedure there, according to which the municipality after some time, let's assume this hypothetical situation... You must know that there are currently 13 municipalities in Silesia that ask for their inclusion in the metropolitan union, and the concerns are elsewhere. The municipalities currently forming a metropolitan union in Silesia are abstinently approaching the extension of this relationship, so for today the trend is the opposite. We in this law have written down a detailed procedure according to which the council of the municipality adopts a resolution on the exit from the metropolitan union, is described according to which procedure this resolution is adopted. It is addressed to the Minister responsible for public administration. Why? Because he is eventually preparing an amendment to the Council of Ministers regulation, which defines the boundary of the metropolitan union. The question about the tasks performed is very important. It regulates the article. 14, which provides that the metropolitan union carries out public tasks, in particular as regards And here are listed enumeratively these tasks. But in practice, as regards the tasks that are being carried out, it is the decision of the assembly later, because the task is carried out by transferring specific budget resources to them. This requires an agreement of all municipalities, because the so-called decision is taken at the assembly. by a double majority, including a majority of all municipalities of the metropolitan union. Of course, this requires, so was already in Silesia, a detailed agreement between municipalities forming part of the metropolitan union on which of these tasks is carried out in practice and on what principles. I have no doubt that communication tasks are an absolute priority in the activities of each metropolitan union, also because it is easier to include the formula of the beneficiary of the relationship, so that each of the municipalities of the association is involved in the implementation of the communication tasks. And that's why it's described in such a detailed procedure. She, among other things. assumes that the legislative path, I hope, could be completed in the first half of this year in two chambers, so that during the second half of the year the metropolitan union would be organized, among others. on the basis of seeking an agreement between municipalities forming part of a metropolitan union on what tasks they want to carry out and on the basis of which principles. I think that's the most important question. The senator rightly pointed out that the metropolitan union is an informed decision by the legislative and executive authorities. I would like to remind you that in 2017, and also in 2015, it was the legislator who decided in agreement with the government: yes, we want metropolitan unions to be established; yes, we are using an additional incentive to create these relationships, in the form of an increased share of PIT income. In fact, these proportions that we reflect were written in this law, i.e. that more is received from the state budget and less is transferred in the form of contributions. But the metropolitan communities themselves can change that, as happened in Silesia. They add much more to the tasks carried out by the metropolis, because it turns out that it is functional, it works out. There's one more thing you need to know. As you know, we are currently discussing a new budgetary perspective for the European Union. Everything points out that this was the request of the Committee of the Region, such are the votes of the representatives of the European Commission, that the Union budget in the new perspective could most likely be dedicated to metropolitan unions, fully allocated to the tasks carried out precisely by the unions. Of course, this decision is still ahead of us, and I cannot say that it will be 100%, but it is also an additional incentive to create such relationships, because there will be an additional financial reward in the form of the possibility of using European funds. As far as development is concerned, yes, it can be said that this gives additional tools to municipalities that are part of the metropolitan area. But pay attention to this, an example is the Łódź metropolitan union, that this is not just the development of a big city. Łódź is doing well, Łódź, like other big cities in Poland, has specific development parameters, decreasing unemployment, etc., etc. Trouble is often with these municipalities maiming the big city. Because the Łódź Metropolitan Union consists of dozens of rural communities. They will also be the beneficiaries of these solutions in a special way. And, of course, it is so that if you read the various opinions of experts who predict how the development will take place in the 21st century in the world... In all these analyses it is said that I apologize for such colloquialism The economic development flywheel and each other will be a strong metropolitan union. This is something we have no way of discussing. These are the opinions of experts who extrapolate certain events in the future. They themselves say that metropolitan areas will be the fastest growing areas in each country, so I think it's worth using this perspective. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask, because these are very important statements that... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u18	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u19	Since natural processes lead to, I would call it, a metropolitan area of the country, we also want to help these natural processes with additional money from the state budget. Let's remember that. But that means that the money won't be given to those who don't belong in the metropolis, which means they'll get less. So we take the poorer, we give the richer. It's so anti-Janosik. Unfortunately, I see here some kind of continuation of this project, which has been pushed for eight years, so-called. a diffusion-polarisation model. He's being brought in like the back gate. I don't mind metropolitans being built on a principle, I would call it, natural, to take extra money from the European Union, if that's what it is, to make the municipalities make up. Really, it's arbitrary. But right when it's 5% participation in PIT, and it is automatically, with a certain pool, not separated, just a general... As I say, these 5% will be missing in the area That's what I'm shooting at. The Suwałchyny or somewhere in Pomerania, where metropolises will never rise. And that, unfortunately, conflicts with my sense of equality. We must take care of the development of all areas of the country. Incidentally, I voted against the establishment of the Silesian metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u20	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u21	By speaking up and answering to the senator... First of all, like I said, it's not like a richer gets extra. The Łódź Metropolitan Union consists of very poor rural communities. I don't want to mention them here. I'm not going to replace them here. And this model, which has been accepted that decisions are taken at the assembly by a majority of votes, causes... We assume precisely such a scenario that, in a particular way, a large city has to deal with the needs of smaller partners. The experience of the Silesian metropolis shows that money, as I said, is mainly directed at what? For communication tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is good communication, the resident of the rural community will not move to a large city because he will be able to have lower cost of living. It is easy to get to a big city, where it often has the opportunity to take a better paid job. I do. That's my view. It's a little opposite of what you're diagnosing. I think this is an extraordinary opportunity for rural communities that are part of metropolitan areas. I'm after talking to self-government. I also had the opportunity to talk to the Marshal of the Łódź Voivodship. They all say one more thing: if we can establish a metropolitan union, which, of course, will also be, as we say, powered by additional funds, then... The marshal said: I spend some of the money that I spend on communication tasks today in Łódź It's like this. The Łódź Agglomeration Railway will be able to transfer to other parts of the voivodship. The true thesis is that all municipalities in a given voivodship benefit from the establishment of a metropolitan union. Why? Because the stream of money for various tasks, and certainly for communication tasks, can then be more fairly distributed also to those parts of the voivodship which are not part of the metropolitan union. And it's not just the Marshal's money, but it could be. money from the regional environmental fund related e.g. with environmental tasks. In my opinion, this is really an opportunity to develop not polarising and diffusion, because I assume that if that were the case, there would not be a majority, however, in the context of a critical assessment of this model of development, in 2017, which allowed this draft law to be adopted but in line with the model of sustainable development. And I think this is just an opportunity for everyone in the region.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u22	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur, I wanted to ask you about the financial contribution of the European Union, but the senator has already asked you to say so. However, I would like to stress very clearly that in Poland, especially in the last 5 years, we are undermining the huge, actually difficult role of the European Union and our Polish membership of the European Union in our development. I would like to tell you that I used to count all the measures that were directed to Poland in the pre-accession, accession, EU, around the EU, for example. Norwegian etc. This is almost 1 trillion zloty. It is difficult to imagine today's Poland, even those benefits that are paid today, without this help. But speaking of money... Self-governments lose their income, their influence decreases. This is the result of the policies of the current government. This is not just about the effects we see in education, in education, in health care, etc. By creating a metropolis, of course, the financial and development future of the metropolis must be built on the basis of the current rules. So, first of all, I would like to ask if you and all those involved in this project are concerned that in the future, No longer counting on money from the European Union, because they will certainly be The government of Law and Justice will be short of money from the state budget if the government of Law and Justice conducts such a devastating Polish government policy so far. It is very difficult and sad to say this, Mr Marshal, this year, because this year is the 30th anniversary of the uprising and development of Polish small homelands. And we see that these Polish small homelands are salt in the eye of the present government. I am worried whether it will not be a way of taking over power by law and justice over Polish government. And then, of course, it could be a certain risk to the created, built metropolises. Secondly, the rapporteur does not think that we should also take legislative initiatives, and I stress this very clearly: legislative, it is not just about some appeals, requests, expectations addressed to the government, because it is clear that it is all like a peas against a wall. Which would guarantee Polish local governments, municipalities, powiats, local governments, not only financial stability, but also greater influence, so that this Poland of small homelands can grow even better than before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u24	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u25	Ladies and gentlemen! I have worked in the Supreme Audit Chamber for the last six years and my experience in this institution has shown me a little bit that there is no problem of government or self-government, but there are problems of all of us. Because if the service isn't working well... If health care is not functioning as we would have hoped as citizens, it unfortunately does not function in all areas regardless of whether it is a county hospital, whether it is a clinical hospital directly subordinate to the health minister, or it is a voivodship hospital. It means we have to do everything we can to improve the system as such. Why am I telling you this? The experience of the Silesian metropolis shows that this is such a unique place where people's problems are simply solved, often without seeing whether the scope of competence is more in government or local government. I'm going to refer to a particular example. The Silesian metropolis is already in the analysis stage, from which all politicians in Poland, regardless of the options, have so far fled like a devil from holy water. What's the analysis? Analysis of the functioning of health services in the Silesian metropolitan area, analysis of all branches, verification that they do not duplicate, verification of how synergies can be achieved in case of lack of resources for health care. Solution in the form of a metropolitan relationship This is not a political solution. This is a solution that solves the problems of specific residents. Yes, it is true, of course, that local governments would like to receive more funding for their tasks. Yes, it's true. The NIK reports showed this. That's what I'm talking about. expenditure on health care is increasing, in quota often at a considerable amount, but is growing less than e.g. rigid costs related to the remuneration of medical staff. But this project isn't about looking for political responsibility. This project is looking for a way out of this situation and tools that will solve problems. Can the metropolitan union somehow lead to an increase in government power over local government? No, I think that, on the contrary, we are introducing an additional voice, the voice of self-governments, who in this dialogue, in these discussions at the level of public administration, on the line of government The self-government, too, can participate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u26	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Ożog.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I fully identify myself with the concerns that my colleague Senator Czerwiński wrote here. I was gonna bring up the same subject, but he did it for me. I mean the third question. Mr Senator, it cannot be said that all other local authorities, that they all benefit in general, because we are talking about the Łódź region, we are talking about the Silesian region. And so far, almost 50% of this pool, in terms of participation in PIT, is 5%. but only in selected regions. It's not in Małopolska or my Podkarpacie. So it's impossible to explain it in this way. I have a quick question. Do the boundaries of this metropolitan union close within powiats or within municipalities? Just a quick question. Perhaps I'll supplement it, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u28	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u29	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! These borders can be the boundaries of the municipalities, they don't have to be the boundaries of the districts. The analytical documents, which were prepared in the Łódź Voivodeship, showing spatial and functional relationships, indicated that this was particularly justified within these 28 municipalities. They are also part of 4 powiats, which I apologize for such a term "circle" include the town of voivodship, or Łódź. But also the way in which the metropolitan union is financed, i.e. the calculation of the share in the PIT tax, can be an absolute charge for residents of individual municipalities, because such data is available to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u30	Thank you. Senator Ogóg again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u31	Mr. Senator, thank you very much, but I'm going back to your question. Don't you think it would be better if this closed up within the county limits? Some of the above-mentioned tasks are carried out in a slightly larger area that goes beyond the boundaries of the metropolitan union. I think we should be based here on the experience of individuals already existing practically throughout the country. I mean MOFs and learn from situations where the boundaries of MOFs in the area of municipalities are not quite working or even creating problems. A commentary from me. I believe that this is a good solution, because perhaps in part of our country's territory, i.e. in the vicinity of big cities, these so-called ones will cease to be conducted. border wars, i.e. rehearsals, apologize for the slang of a local governmentman. Eating the most attractive parts of the communes by voivodship cities and not only with which these municipalities are to have a misfortune to neighbour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u32	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u33	I don't have any answers here. The truth is, as the senator said, that there are several large cities, I will no longer mention them, which in a special way are regarded as part of the absorption of further communal areas directly adjacent to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u34	Thank you. I have a question. Do you, Senator, remember the expansion of Opole? I didn't want to exchange cities anymore. Yeah, there are cities that develop like this. Thank you. Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Well, it usually involves the cost of managing and administering the structure. Have these costs been calculated and could you determine the amount of these costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I need to make a clear indication here, too. Here you have defined costs in the initial period at the level of PLN 1.5 million and about 20 people. I'm saying, in the early days. Because I spoke to the president of the Silesian metropolis yesterday, and he also talked about the number of employees they started with, and today... This figure was increased, for example, because the budget of the Silesian metropolitan area has almost tripled in three years and the number of tasks has increased, and of course the number of employees must be adapted to the tasks that the metropolitan union performs. You have here this initial stage and what are the costs involved and what is the demand for staffing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u37	Mr. Senator Jackowski again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Listening to these questions, I have a more general question for the senator. In view of the fact that it is not only the Łódź subregion, we have much more areas that would like to create metropolitan areas in Poland. Mr. Senator's declarations about the Toruń-Bedgo area have already been made here. We heard that the marshal asked about Opole and so on. Therefore, I have a question: wouldn't it be more advisable to work on some kind of general... on a mother's bill that defines these mechanisms? We could leave the local authorities at their disposal to decide whether they want or not to see such a need or not. Wouldn't it be worth working over just a certain act of the mother which would lay down rules for the functioning of metropolitan unions of the Republic of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u39	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u40	Mr. Marshal, I'm a little smiling because I've read the transcripts of the 2015 and 2017 seymous discussions and I'd say that the senator is now presenting a slightly against the views of government representatives. That's why I said at first that I don't judge, that's two philosophies. In 2015, when the General metropolitan Act was adopted... Well, it's no secret when I use the date that this law was prepared especially by two political environments, the Civic Platform and the PSL. There was this philosophy in the project: we are preparing a general law, which is a framework law, so that local governments, where formal requirements are met, can form a metropolitan union. Of course, it was in the end of the term. These metropolitan relationships did not actually form, also because there were no implementing acts. Later, in 2017. The government proposed a slightly different philosophy in 2016, saying: each of these places where the metropolis can be formed has its own characteristics, so we accept the Silesian-Załęgian metropolitan team and we say that it is a choice of a certain philosophy that we choose the bill to the place. I'm doing it today, too, in agreement with local government officials, so there's no doubt... Within the Łódź Metropolitan Team there are local government officials from all political options, PiS, Platforms, PSL, and the largest group, as you can imagine, are the mayors, independent mayors, who are not members of any political party. It didn't happen against him either. There is a Łódź metropolitan area, there is very close cooperation, there is a clear expectation of establishing a metropolitan team. This is not the construction that was created here in Parliament. This is a construction that meets the clear expectations of local authorities and residents. It is hard to believe, but in the Łódź voivodship there is a very dynamic association for the creation of a metropolitan team, which is a completely non-political, cross-party initiative, is a citizens' initiative. This shows that this project responds to citizens' expectations and is not an element resulting from certain political assumptions that were adopted at the time of the project's creation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u41	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. There are no more questions to be asked, Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft law at issue? I'm asking you the Secretary of State of Paweł Chiefnernaker. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to refer to the project in a few sentences. I would like to point out above all that the Council of Ministers sees local initiatives related to the proposal to create a metropolis. Here I agree with the projector that these are indeed largely local, transpolitical initiatives in a given area. As you probably know, these initiatives in Poland are now more than what we are talking about today. As Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I have met with local government officials on numerous occasions, with representatives of such initiatives from various other regions in our country. As a general rule, I would like to say that, in the context of the amendments tabled, I would like to point out that the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers assumes that legal solutions which may be the basis for the operation of further metropolitan unions beyond the Upper Silesia will emerge after 2020. Since 2018 there has been a Upper Silesian metropolitan union. The assumption is that, after 3 years, an analysis will be created in the government, which, in cooperation with local authorities proposing such solutions, will allow for the determination of which initiatives are worthwhile to be implemented within the framework of a responsible development strategy. Thus, the government's position is that solutions for the next functional areas around cities, taking into account the experience of the implementation of this Upper Silesian Union and the validity of the Law on the Upper Silesian Union, will be possible after 2020. We assume that in the second half of this year an analysis of the systemic approach to such solutions will be carried out, because the debate that has just taken place here raises questions about other places and other proposals for metropolitan unions. Thus, following appropriate analyses, the government's position is: it will be possible to take a systematic approach to how, in the context of our country's sustainable development, we can implement further such initiatives. Therefore, the government's position today in this particular case is negative. As I say, not because the government is against this type of initiative, but simply the sustainable development strategy, the strategy within which we operate today, under which we implement the government's programme, assumes that it will be in 2021 that an analysis of this type of solution will allow us to decide which way and where this type of initiative is to be implemented. As regards the comments on this law, which are of a general nature, I would not like to refer in detail to the solutions because of this system approach In the explanatory memorandum, the designer included a statement, which was also mentioned here, that the project in the basic body layer is based on the current provisions of the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. And here I would like to point out that the proposal is a duplication of the provisions of this law, and the significant difference is only about the subjective scope. The members of the Łódź metropolitan union are indicated here. There is also a definition of a metropolitan union, which according to the projectors is an association of municipalities of the Łódź Voivodeship, characterized by strong functional links and the advancement of urbanization processes, located in a spatially coherent area, which lives at least 1 million inhabitants. Of course, there is no doubt about this, but there are doubts arising from the fact that this project is based directly on the current provisions of the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. And these doubts arise from whether the application of these provisions one to one will allow this Łódź model to actually meet the requirements that meet the Upper Silesian model. This is explained by the fact that the specificity of this area is different, and this concerns above all the reasons for maintaining the existence of strong urbanization processes in Silesia, which works for this solution. This also applies to the density of the population, the compact nature of the buildings. We have therefore raised this question as an MSWiA in this opinion, in the position put forward to the State. In addition, the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Area is one of the best-developed functional areas, which also allows for another, better functioning of this relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, an assessment of the effects of the regulation is attached to the Act. In our view, it requires some realization, adaptation to the nature of the Łódź metropolitan union, as this assessment was based on data, on the revenues achieved by the Upper Silesia-Zęgębian Metropolis, and we believe that this should be done primarily on the basis of data relating to the area which will be subject to an appropriate change. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I repeat that, as a rule, the government recognises the legitimacy of such initiatives in the developing world, the debate on this subject, although we would like to see that decisions on the appointment of the next metropolitan areas take place after a three-year period of operation of the Silesian metropolitan area in order to be able to recalculate this case, draw conclusions and take further steps forward. These initiatives are important to us, but about today Because it appeared before the end of 3 years, we are essentially going against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u43	Thank you, Minister. Senators can now report... Stay in the podium for a while, or there might be questions. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. No questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u44	Ladies and gentlemen! I would urge you to consider such a decision in order to follow the Minister's statement, but to make this analysis faster. Fortunately, we do not have to wait more than 3 years, because today we can say that the Silesian metropolis has been operational formally since the establishment of the law for more than 2 years. Today, what I would like to point out is that we have a certain achievement of this metropolitan area, and on the basis of this information we can decide whether metropolitan areas really serve the development of particular areas of the country. As I said, the first year-round budget of the Silesian metropolis was formally for 2018. At that time the budget was PLN 370 million, the budget for 2020 is over PLN 1 billion. And, ladies and gentlemen, this growth is not at the expense of the state budget or of taking additional money from PIT. You must know that according to the 2020 PIT estimates there will be 390 million, i.e. more than 600 million are raised in accordance with the decision of local governments to form the Silesian metropolitan union to transfer these funds to certain tasks. Of course, the implementation of these tasks also serves specific impacts on the budget of the metropolitan union, e.g. from the sale of tickets within the metropolitan team. This shows that in a very short period of time it turned out that the metropolitan union as a legal, functional and financial tool gives an excellent exam when it comes to solving the problems of residents. And that's why I encourage you not to stick to the hard record that it must take three years. We are in the third year of the metropolitan union, which allows us to analyse how this relationship works in practice. I would say that financial means are one thing, of course, the decision of the municipalities of the metropolitan area, which say: yes, we are pleased with the tasks performed, but above all, the mayor or president would not have made this decision at the assembly if the inhabitants of the metropolitan area were not satisfied with the way this metropolitan area works. I can tell you that we are preparing a study trip to Silesia and we are already on a date with the metropolitan board that they are already planning to take over more areas that are responsible for a specific field of public services for citizens, those in which institutions are clearly in public distress. I don't draw a line here, whether it's the government or the government... Well, there is no more difficult area in Poland than health care. Today, analytical and conceptual work is underway within all municipalities of the metropolitan team, how to achieve synergies. You know best that in Poland every county hospital wants to have its branches, its obstetrics, its surgery, its internship. And where's the synergy effect? We can choose the best ones and do so so that health care institutions do not compete without eliminating any, but strengthening those specializations where the facilities are good. And the first such project was created within the metropolitan union. You know how difficult this is for the government, whether it is for the government or for the government. In fact, all of us have been avoiding the subject in practice with a wide arch. And the metropolitan relationship is the place where certain solutions are created. I can also tell you that in the Silesian metropolitan area you are thinking a step further, thinking about what is going on after health care. This next step is to be the secondary schools and also the analysis of the networks of these schools. Why am I telling you this? I would like to persuade you to do one thing: if one man invented a wheel, then another man does not have to wait many years to use this wheel. If a solution works, let's use it just when we can evaluate that it's functional. I would like to convince you to this philosophy, because each other is saying to each other: we know that there is something good, but earlier we assumed that we would even benefit from this good one in a while. The thing that would be absolutely difficult for us to explain as parliamentarians of the Second Chamber of the Polish Parliament, as senators, is that we know that some solution is functional, but we do not implement it only because in one of the documents we have written down that the possible subsequent introduction of metropolitan unions will take place after 2020. After all, in practice the Łódź Metropolitan Union would operate from 1 January 2021 according to what you have written in this project. The year 2020 is in practice mainly an organizational sphere. And the full implementation of the tasks, including a specific budget, is only 2021. And in fact, with this appeal alone, I would like to make a request for consideration. I believe the Senate has a special mission. It was in this House of Parliament that we adopted the state reform in 1990. This is where local government laws were formed. It is us, as senators, who have the right to say proudly: in this House of Parliament there are good solutions for citizens, in this House of Parliament there is a strengthening of the local government where it passes the exam. Metropolitan unions... The Silesian Metropolitan Union passed this exam. And I assure you that Łódzki will also pass it if we give him this chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u45	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll tell you a little bit. Two lines. I am very pleased that after the local elections, where it has already been said and appealed, the inhabitants have called for a relationship between the Łódź metropolis and the local authorities have taken action. I am very glad that the Senator from Łódź land, the Senator from Łódź, took over the baton I carried in the local elections, and there was a metropolitan law. Mr. Senator, thank you very much for bringing this bill to its final stage. Ladies and gentlemen, I will appeal to everyone. The Metropolitan Act is needed, stems from the needs of the inhabitants, the desire to act together by local governments. That is why I appeal to all senators to vote in favour of this bill. And Minister, one word for you. This time for analysis is already passing. There's nothing wrong with this bill... for the government to support this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your support, especially the senators of Łódź land. Mr. Senator, I hope there will be a vote in favour of the Metropolitan Act from Łódź land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u47	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law amending the Law on Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 59 and the report of the Commission In print No 59 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 30 January, the Environment Commission considered a law amending the Law amending the Law on Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. It is contained, as the marshal noted, in print number 59. During the committee's deliberations, the Minister of the Environment, as the country's chief geologist, presented... E.g. informed that the Act was adopted in 2014, in January. After 5 concession proceedings, the Minister decided to grant the concession or refuse to grant the concession to 2 companies. At that time, the country's geologist gave these decisions. And as a result of the opposition to these decisions, the Minister of the Environment, the decisions issued in July 2014, repealed its own previously issued decisions in these cases. These decisions were issued by the then Minister of the Environment. Decisions adopted by the Minister of the Environment in July 2014 were subsequently challenged by the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw. On 1 January 2015, the Law of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, which did not contain any transitional provisions for such concession proceedings, entered into force. The Act also introduced new rules on the handling of such licence applications. At this point I will point out that the amendment proposed by... it was the decision of Members to make this change. Minister Dziadzio presented this bill and pointed out that the earlier law regulated, one can say, the issue of hydrocarbons, while it did not regulate the issue of minerals. And that's why this change is necessary. The aim is to regulate the legal issues that have arisen in the course of the award of concessions. The decisions were contested by the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw. After considering these cases, the Supreme Administrative Court can be said to have repealed this and handed over to the Minister of the Environment, now the climate that should consider it at the second instance. Therefore, the provision proposed in the Act is necessary, precisely because of those still in progress, at the stage of second instance, of the concession proceedings. The Act adopted concerns only the introduction of a transitional provision to the Act of 11 July 2014. Let me just remind you that the bill was passed in the Seym without any amendments. The Senators of the Environment Committee have submitted a motion to reject the Act and have obtained a majority. There were 7 votes against, 5 against, 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u49	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator Gawłowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I have basically only one question for the senator. How many companies does this bill apply to? If you name these companies... Say it again, because it didn't come... How many companies does this bill apply to? And if you were to name these companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u51	You've been to a committee meeting, you've heard... But the senators... As I recall, this concerns two companies and five concession proceedings. Do you remember the names? I think if you reach for the report, for the transcript, you'll find out. [[Well, I gave you an answer. I just don't remember... I know the first one was about KGHM, and the second one... I don't remember any company with Canadian capital. That's what it looked like.]] Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u52	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Senator Władysław Komarnicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Senator rapporteur, I have a question for you. Isn't this an attempt to circumvent the rules currently in force after that amendment and to revisit the 2014 provisions? And second question. Isn't it also an attempt, as I say, to circumvent the courts and decide which laws should apply? Is it the ones before the amendment, or the ones after the amendment? And the third question. Isn't there ever going to be a disturbance in the interests of the residents, because these proposals are going to be dealt with in accordance with the old regulations rather than the new ones? These three questions, Mr. Senator, if I may ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u55	In my speech, Mr Senator, I have informed you that this law has 1 defect, whereas the transitional provisions concern hydrocarbons and do not concern fossils. This change is to supplement this, add a rule that was not made. The Minister is asking for this provision to be introduced so that the issues that Senator Gawłowski had previously asked can be clarified and settled. The Minister, you can say, examines administrative matters, makes decisions, examines complaints that are filed. It is necessary to supplement this law with this provision. That's all there is to this bill. Therefore, in the Seym, despite discussion, also turbulent, the bill passed, one can say, without amendment. Thank you... There were no amendments at the Senate Committee meeting either. You know exactly that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u56	Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal... Doesn't the microphone work? It's working. Mr. Senator, can you tell the other senators what kind of money, what kind of money, if we took this law, this change is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u59	Madam President, as I said earlier, 5 concession proceedings. It's like Senator Gawłowski said, two companies. And the point is to give the ministry a chance to consider this case, so that the court can then make the right decision on the decisions that need to be resolved. Because these things have been going on too long and too long in the administration right now, so that they won't be dealt with eventually.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u60	Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two more questions. Why, Senator rapporteur, have some of the cases started before 2014 been completed in accordance with the new law, and those that have not been resolved, do you want to end in accordance with the old law? This. I'm sorry to say this. - Who's that? - Who's Are you defending business? 'Cause it's all over my mouth after that analysis. And finally, I have this question. I'd like to talk about the doubts of our Lega Bureau... Lega... Legitimate. Legislating, which explicitly states that the proposal to add a new provision in the article raises doubts. 18 laws. This provision is a transitional provision. It should be noted that the amendment of the Act entered into force on 1 January 2015. This solution therefore raises doubts as to its compatibility with the constitutional principles of legal certainty and the prohibition of retroactivity. And my question is, do we have to do this if the Legislative Bureau has made it clear to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u62	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u63	I have here an explanation, Mr. Senator, that the passed law requires the application of the old laws of the law to events that have begun and continued under the rule of those old regulations. So that bill is... This record, like, you could say, complements only what isn't left. It's done before. And that's why he's not storming... One can say that it does not work backwards, but complements what should be done. Well, it just sort of sneaked in like some oversight, it could happen to anyone, and now we're supplementing this bill with fossils, so that it covers the fossils, and then we can settle this dispute, which is probably five proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u64	There you go. I just want to tell you that... what I'm trying to say is that the other concern is Copper Copper Copper. What's that? Mr. Senator named the company that does it. Good. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, do you think this is a good way for Parliament, by means of a statutory decision, namely the adoption of a special law, to interrupt the administrative procedure that is under way? Is it even a good way for Parliament to act in this or any other matter in Poland, any case which is the subject of an administrative procedure, to enter the law in power, intersecting, interrupting these administrative proceedings? Is this in accordance with the democratic rule of law and its principles? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u66	Dear Senator, the point is that, as I have said before, sometimes there are certain, you can say, shortcomings. Sometimes in the whirlpool of various emotions that are in the Seym or even in the Senate, there may be some oversight, oversight. Well, in this case, as I said before, we have records on hydrocarbons, and we don't have transitional provisions on solid minerals. And that's why it's kind of an addition to this bill. I think it's reasonable, Mr. Senator... In my view, it is reasonable for us to correct or supplement what is sometimes wrong or inaccurate, because this is our role. And that's the position I'm presenting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u67	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka. Please. Thank you very much... Can you hear me? No.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u68	Oh, now... Thank you. I'm a little surprised at what you're saying, but I'm putting this on the record that you're not an applicant or a ministerial representative. I have this remark: for 5 years the companies have certainly asked the Ministry to solve the problem, because the law entered into force on 1 January 2015, and after 5 years the government has come to realize that this problem needs to be solved. What happened at this point, after these five years, that right now something has to be done. But you don't know how to do it, best to break the law again? Is there anything you can say about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u69	I can tell you that this is definitely not a violation of the law. There's a minister here who, I think, 'cause, as you've noticed, I'm not from the ministry. It will clarify in detail that the need to amend this law was born after, you can say, the examination of complaints and judgments of the administrative court. And that's why this case has returned to the Ministry of the Environment for consideration. I think the Minister will be able to explain this in detail to the President, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Thank you. Just a minute! Oh, there's still... Yes? Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u71	Mr. Senator, I have a question. I had not spoken before, although I am keenly interested in the matter and I am really for it and even against it. As far as the copper mine is concerned, this applies to my city and the surroundings of my city. And I'm very interested in making a mine like this. But I do know from experience, over the past many years, that KGHM monopoly has made this investment in the vicinity of my city blocked all these years. The previous government was blocking her, too. I'm just saying this so we're clear. The state, as a governing option, had five years to resolve this problem. The investor invested in the vicinity of Nowa Sól, i.e. my city, about 400 million PLN, the expectation of the local government is such as to issue a concession and permission to build a mine, although we have considerable suspicions that the applicant state is currently trying to correct the mistake and you want to avoid paying huge compensation, because the dispute between Miedzi Cooper, a Canadian company that wants to build a mine, and the Polish government, is in international arbitration. Its resolution may be detrimental to the Polish government and it may threaten with enormous compensations. So I have serious concerns about, on the one hand, being interested in building such a mine Because we know what this means to us and, on the other hand, knowing about the KGHM monopoly that blocked this investment, that these are apparent actions, done only to avoid this lost dispute in international arbitration, and to build a mine in my city anyway. We have such concerns as self-government officials, as people who are for and even against. We want this mine, only that the government of law and justice was 5 years old to settle it, and he didn't, and what's happening now is apparent movements, and I don't think it's entirely consistent... Mr. Senator, the form of the question... My question: do you really, as an applicant, as a government, wish to consent to the construction of the Copper Cooper mine in the vicinity of New Salt?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u72	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u73	Thank you, Mr. Senator, for putting up a problem. I'm not the government, the minister will answer in a moment. During my responses or speeches, I noticed that some shortcomings were sometimes committed. In 2014, at the drafting stage of the Act, some inconsistencies have emerged, they have now been noticed, and it is good that this has now been noticed. Perhaps it's a pity that you didn't before because you can fix this bill. And we're fixing it. I think that our role as senators, as parliamentarians, is to correct this law so that the Polish state does not suffer any damage.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u74	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I don't see any more requests for questions. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The question is addressed to the Secretary of State, the main geologist of the country and the representative of the government for the raw material policy of the state, Mr. Piotr Grandpa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u75	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to present to you in a few words the problem that we are dealing with right now. I will show you this comparison, because it may be more graphic and help you understand the situation of the licensing authority. This is only a comparison, there is no direct translation here, but I would like to present it to you in more or less a few sentences. We're dealing with a situation where we promise someone we'll sell the plot on a certain basis. Any plot of land in a specific space And we're writing down a pre-emptive agreement. Imagine that the principle of distribution of parcels is then changed, i.e. someone is introducing new rules for the distribution of these parcels administratively, and we are preparing a new agreement in which we define a new area, different from the previous one, and we want to sell this plot on previous terms, which is impossible because physically there is no more of this plot. It's a comparison. It's pretty much the same situation. In 2012 we granted concessions for exploration and recognition of deposits. They were sued, then they were in the voivodeship court, then in the Supreme Administrative Court, they are now returning to the second body, i.e. to the Ministry of Climate, because at the same time, in 2015, 1 January, the regulations changed, which is what I told you. We can't renegotiate the concession procedure, and I'm saying that it's about finding and identifying the raw materials that we're talking about here, copper. 'Cause we don't have the rules to do it. In the meantime, someone... well, they didn't change, they changed the laws. So what if these cases are returned to the licensing authority if the licensing authority doesn't know under what conditions it should decide who should be licensed to search and identify? A completely different issue is the issue of a concession to exploit these resources, but without these basic conditions being met. Someone has to recognize and document these resources. We're not gonna issue a search license. The bill which has been introduced by the group of Members is of the utmost importance. Although it is retroactive, it is intended because it allows these proceedings to be carried out, as you do. I told you. Here the government's position is that the law passed by the Sejm should actually be adopted by the High House without any amendments, because it regulates a legal system, allows us to make a decision, allows us to carry out and terminate proceedings. This is a comfortable situation for the authority, because it knows what rules it should carry out, can lead to the issue of a license for search and recognition. It's a very simple matter. We need to be able to do this. Well, maybe I'll just go back to the questions that came out here. Of course, this law does not affect the community in any way. I repeat, no way. It only concerns the termination of business cases, it has no impact on the local community, on these land-related matters, in no way refers to land-owners. At the same time, the draft law does not judge, prefer, decide in respect of either party. He lets you end the procedure. It is so that you have such information, full information about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u77	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I've only got one question for now, and then I'm gonna let you ask me a few more questions. I already asked that at the committee meeting. I'd like to hear, but very precise. I am convinced that the Minister is already prepared for this answer today. When these companies submitted their applications for an exploratory research licence. I'm asking for precise dates, which company and when. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u78	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u79	Senator, in answer to your question, it doesn't matter at all, once again, it doesn't matter. And it won't. In the concession proceedings, the first person to submit, the last person to submit. Only the substantive aspects, i.e. the scope of the proposal, which covers search and exploratory work, are important. It doesn't matter, I'll mark it, High Izbo. This has no impact. This question, in my opinion, is completely unfounded, because the deadline does not decide, the time limit for the submission of a licence application does not decide on the award of a concession, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u80	Senator Gawłowski again. Maybe a few questions right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u81	My problem, Mr. Marshal, is that the Minister did not answer my question, and the question was extremely simple, about the date when one company applied and when the other. Then I will explain that there is a great connection between the two, and I believe that the Minister is deliberately misleading the High House. And don't judge my question, just answer that question. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u82	I understand the Minister is unable to answer. So you can ask for... He won't answer. Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u83	But I say again, ladies and gentlemen... That's your assessment. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, but we're not asking for meaning. Give me the dates. At first... Why didn't you want to go to the committee meeting today, and you don't want to give dates? Is it so hard to say this company... One company... I'll tell you. One company: 2012, January 10th. Which one? Which one? January 10th. Which company? What's his name? Leszno Copper. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You mean Canadians. Canadians, Leszno Copper... Yes. When's KGHM? But it's in another area. Good. But when? Again, Mr. Senator. For example, another... But I'm not asking for another one. When's KHGM? Mr. Senator, give us an opportunity to respond. April 12 of the same year. But all these areas are different concession areas. We can't compare them. It's just a date. I've already served it. There's an answer. Yes, sir. Good. Now I'm going to ask you a few more questions, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u84	Is there anyone else out there asking the question? No. You volunteered, yes, you volunteered. Please, just a few more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u85	How are deposits documented in these five disputed concession areas? I'm asking what those two companies that have or have information from... If they're documented. Which have more raw materials in those areas that were previously licensed? How many more tests should be carried out and to what extent can drilling be carried out in the part that concerns these five disputed concession areas to document deposits and apply for a mining licence? This applies to both companies. Haven't these companies done any work so far? What are the works done by one company and the other?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u86	These works have not been carried out because they have not been granted concessions. Senator, licence applications have been submitted with a specific scope of work to be carried out. To do these jobs... Only after the grant of a licence for the search and recognition of the company's deposits take action in the field of carrying out geological works to document the resources. If they document these resources in the appropriate category that allows us to issue a concession, then we will issue such a concession. At the moment, there is no basis for this because we do not know in which category the entities will document the resources. They don't have the ability to document because they don't have a license to search and identify. It's a basic issue. That's why we want to do this so that... we support this proposal so that the actors have the opportunity to carry out exploratory and search research. We don't have that kind of data.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u87	One last question, Minister. Was the case handled by the D.A.'s office? And if so, what are the conclusions of this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u88	I don't know the conclusions of the prosecutor's analysis. I know things are going on, and there's no settlement right now, but I don't know any conclusions right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u89	Mr. Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in preparing for the committee we attended on this matter, I considered this project worthy of support, wanting it to go faster, even though I did not like the process itself, such that we were avoiding administrative procedures. But since you haven't been able to answer the question of what companies this case is about for half an hour... I have a question: why wasn't the Minister able to name these two companies for half an hour at this committee meeting? That's when I realized something was wrong here, and I'm against this project. I'm sorry, but I traded these companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u91	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u92	I traded these companies. With all due respect, Senator, the names of these companies were mentioned. We all know them today, and we all use them. But for half an hour... I don't think it's relevant to whom we decide. The important thing is that we should be able to resolve this. That's the essence of the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u93	Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I abstained at the committee meeting, Minister. With all due respect to the President, the rapporteur, but I would like to ask you something else because I did not get the full answer. I have three questions. Isn't this an attempt to bypass the rules that are in force at the moment, after the amendment, and to go back to the 2014 rules? That's my first question. My second question. Isn't it also an attempt to circumvent the courts and decide which rules should be applied, or the ones before the amendment, or the ones in force after the amendment? And my third question. Isn't there going to be a disturbance in the town's interests? This is a very important question. The point is that these proposals will be dealt with in accordance with these old rules, not new ones. I'm asking for precise answers because these are important matters. I have a habit of consulting those who know about it, those who think there's something wrong and something wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u95	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u96	I'm answering the first question. This is not a breach of the law. Absolutely not bypassing the law. Second question. This is not an attempt to circumvent the courts. Absolutely not. And the third question. No business of the residents is at risk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u97	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal, I have one question to ask about the Minister's reply... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u98	And how do you respond to what our Legal Office has shown you? I can quote what the Legislative Bureau wrote, those reservations, if you don't mind. May I? Senator, don't ask if you can, just quote. Sure. I would like to mention the doubts which... the Bureau explicitly states that the proposal to add a new provision to the article raises doubts. 18 laws. This provision is a partial provision. As the legislator says, it is important to note that the amendment of the law entered into force on 1 January 2015, and therefore such a solution raises doubts as to its compatibility with constitutional principles of legal certainty and the prohibition of retroactivity. Minister, I read this about your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u100	The Act in force is ordering the legal system. At the very beginning, I quoted you with such a metaphor that we would be in a single legal order that would not allow us to terminate and issue concessions. I understand that we all understand that the bill is retroactive, that is true, but thanks to the fact that we will make an adjustment in this law, we will be able to complete the ongoing concession proceedings, the concession procedure. This is necessary. It is a law that regulates the legal system. As the rapporteur said, we lack transitional provisions. They include various fossils, raw materials, e.g. hydrocarbons but do not include solid fossils. This is a mistake that has been made, which is why we are now in favour of the introduction of a law of this kind, which will sort it out and allow for the second instance of concession applications to be settled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u101	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u102	Dear Minister, you speak very much, but you are reluctant to respond. It's been a long time since you two, as the Ministry, should probably realize that this bill doesn't stand for you. Please tell me: were it only Members who were able to see these inconveniences and had to come forward with this project, or is this a reason for missing a certain procedure that the government would follow when introducing various laws? So no discussion, no consultation, no extortion, because it's an extortion that I disagree with.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u103	The answer to the question is no. That's why it took so long for her to be in the next courts, which I explained to you at the committee meeting. For four years, the case was pending in the courts, so it was not possible for the licensing authority to settle it. He couldn't decide, but he was able to react through a possible attempt to change. But he couldn't, and he didn't know, without court orders. And the Members could have done it faster? I am responsible for this area right now, which is here and now, so I believe that it is intentional to introduce, to sort out the legal system and carry out the concession, it is in the interest of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u104	Minister, I'm gonna make this final question concrete. Was this bill written by the Ministry, and it was introduced as a message?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u105	No, it was reported by the Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u106	I take it the Ministry didn't write that bill? No. Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm right here at the end... [[Yeah, yeah.]] Well, I'm no longer understanding some of the processes that are happening, perhaps the Minister will explain to me. It's not about this parliamentary project, it's about what happened before. In 2012, under the rule of the old coalition, Platforms and PSL, 2 companies applied for a concession, as I understand separately, to various areas. In 2014, the Platform and the PSL adopted with the date of entry into force of 1 January 2015 a new geological law in which they forgot one of the transitional provisions. This novel and this oblivion have made it impossible to effectively resolve the licence applications submitted. This legal uncertainty These proposals are still being made, and no one has withdrawn them, I understand. It should be removed as soon as possible. And now the same platform and debris now in the Senate. PSL proposes to reject this novel, this law, i.e. to maintain legal uncertainty, why this government was not guilty in any way. And here's the question: what is it really about, Minister? I really don't get it. What's going on with the applicants... Oh, disturbing. ...who propose to reject this obvious bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u108	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u109	I don't get it either. We're convincing you here. And that's the government's position. That this is necessary for us to have an orderly legal system, to be able to carry out the concession process and to issue these concessions. This is, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of the Republic of Poland. Once again, I'm pointing that out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u110	Thank you, Minister. I have a question, too, because I don't really understand what's going on either. Are these concession areas... Is there a dispute between companies? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u111	Yes, there is a dispute, this dispute is between... As I say, the case is in court. Both. There's a dispute between two companies? Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u112	Well, I see what's going on. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u113	Minister, I'll join you in the question... If some mistakes were made by the previous government, then why are you only now and at such a rapid pace, a parliamentary project, improving what could have been improved for five years? That's a rhetorical question. You had five years to fix it. Now I'm going to ask you a specific question. My question is: at what stage is international arbitration between the government and Copper company and what are the penalties threatening Poland? That's the first question. And second question. Did Copper apply for a mining licence, especially in the Bytom Odrzański area?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u114	I'll start with the second question. The concessions are still for search and recognition... There is no conclusion to be made on the extraction. There isn't? It's not for mining. The first question is addressed to the D.A. She might be the one who's gonna... I do not know the stage at which this procedure is currently underway. This isn't for us right now. As I understand it, it shouldn't be an object... We want to put an end to the issue of the concession, the settlement and the possibility of issuing the concession in accordance with specific rules. I'm just gonna ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u115	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u116	In case the Canadians apply for a mining licence... They must have a license to search and identify first. But they have, like, no exaggeration... Minister, this is my region. 400 million zlotys invested in holes around my town. They do, of course. But they don't have documented... Okay, but if they didn't apply for a mining license... They didn't. ...then I take back the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal... I'm just asking you to formulate a question. Yeah, yeah. Minister, here was a question about the opinion of the Senate legislators. It was quoted, and it was pointed out that the bill raised doubts. Well, I would like to explain to the Minister that this language, such legal statements, simply means that the law is breaking the law in Poland. If you confirm it. In your speech, you confirmed that the Act is retroactive Well, I'd like to ask if your government has already adopted such a rule on a permanent basis... Since 2015 we have seen it, starting with breaking the Polish Constitution, and it is a dozen of its rules... Not only do we see her in this, but this is the most damaging to the Polish state, i.e. the Polish justice system with the judiciary at the head. But now you're going on a jury, you've decided to go on a jury and break all the rules about all the areas of life... Mr. Senator, put the question down. What I'm asking is, has the government accepted the rule that he will no longer care about Polish law? That's it, period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u119	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u120	This law is necessary I'm telling you again. There have been such cases and the state has also carried out such changes in the legal system in geological and mining law during its governments. These changes have been made 3 times before.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u121	Thank you. Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, I would almost believe that this is a great success right now, because we're going to fix something that was imperfect. But I would therefore like to know whether this amendment will apply to all new concessions. Well, if we're fixing, I understand that the old ones were bad and we're fixing them to be very good and to be good for everyone. Does this apply only to those 2 companies that have entered into a dispute at different levels? Please answer: does this apply only to 2 companies... This concerns 2 companies and 5 proceedings... And that's why we bend this law, stretch it backwards, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u123	This applies only to 2 companies and 5 proceedings. This does not apply to any other proceedings and will not apply to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u124	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, all this information, which you have just presented here, has been ripped out of it, ripped out, and in fact throughout the whole committee meeting, we did not really know who it was about. It wasn't until the end that we heard that the amounts are billions. But what is most important to me personally, and what I suggest to the High House, is that... we are the upper chamber of Parliament, we are responsible for the proper regulation. If our legislators claim that the law was written with a violation of the law, because the law in Poland does not apply backwards, if we still have a three-fold division of power and it cannot be so that if there is a case in court And that's how it is. Whether it's a national court or a court outside our country... Well, this must be respected and wait for the outcome of these judicial actions, not bend the law through the legislative authority. Because that's how I feel about everything that's going on around this case, which is an unusual thing about very valuable minerals, such as copper and silver, and about, as I said, high sums of money. And the bill is created with the violation of Polish law and contrary to the constitutional provisions, which we have in black and white written in the opinion of lawyers, i.e. the Senate Legislative Office. So I think the Senate should vote against such a law regardless of whether someone's heart is on the side of KGHM or the other company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u126	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Minister! If the discussion at the Environment Committee were deeper, if we were more likely to respond and were introduced to the subject, perhaps we would have no doubt. This discussion today shows that the government is in the position to deal with the matter very quickly, without discussion, because this is what the present moment requires. We don't know why this moment is so important. Is this about the upcoming election? Do you wish to succeed? Would you like to? I'm sorry to say this, but it just comes to mind to have the gratification for the election campaign from one of the companies that might get the concession? Forgive me, but that's the kind of suspicion I hear. Mother dear... Don't whine, because it is. That's too much. The point is that in 2012, these two entities we are talking about were granted such permission, i.e. a concession to look for raw materials in the form of copper, silver, perhaps other things. All this remained in the Ministry for years, and now you want to return to the 2014 Act, which entered into force at the beginning of 2015, and which lacked one entry in the article. 18. This article does not state that in the award of concessions, i.e. in the field of extraction, it is necessary to return to the 2014 Act, because the present law amends these principles. I have a question. Wouldn't it be better, fairer, though perhaps more expensive? What if we started the concession process under the new law? Is that unacceptable? I think that would be in line with the law. And what's going on in our legal system right now is calling for vengeance to heaven. We destroy everything, we destroy all the rules. And how are we supposed to move within this law? That's the main reason why we're protesting this. We don't want to be a lawbreaker in a body and contribute to legal uncertainty, to fooling the public. I know that there are two entities waiting for the concession, and most of all there are people who want to work there. Our municipalities and Poland want to profit from this, but not this way and not this way. That's why we'll be here. At least I'll be there. To vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u128	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're a little used to the fact that when something happened before 2016, it's always the bad, bad Platform that's guilty of that bad, bad government. In this case, the Minister is saving us. And you know why he's saving us? Piotr Woźniak, Minister of Economy in Jarosław Kaczyński's Government, was the country's main geologist at the time. Yes, Minister, don't nod, that's exactly when I worked with him. And now I think PGNiG's president. I don't think so. I don't know if he's changed or not. Changed... So for a good cause... Well, the minister walks so carefully around these concessions, but it's his signature, Minister, he's under those licenses he doesn't have. Piotr Wozniak was the country's leading geologist until 2013. The question I asked you was whether the concessions had already been issued. You said no, there's no expenses, nothing's going on. And in response to Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, you said: well, there are 400 million already gone, there are consequences. You're nodding again. Don't be, Minister, you need to control yourself more and know more before you come to this House here. In Poland, for the last few years, we have had such a special right, called "lex Obajtek" and sometimes "lex Energa." This right, the fact that we wrote the laws under one particular company, caused such an effect that we had to pay gigantic compensation to those companies who, on the basis of these laws, lost all kinds of contracts. 'Cause it was about wind power. As they were legally dissolved. She paid off Energa a little bit, probably the Treasury... Those were amounts going into billions of zlotys. Today we have been proposed to adopt the law, which I think we should call Grandpa. Mining and geological law is actually an extremely complicated law, and the fact that there is a dispute between two Members... I am firmly convinced that none of the Members or Senators had known this before. The Ministry, even the competent department, knows this, but is any of you on this side of the room? I'm asking the Senators of the PiS. Did he know that? Well, you didn't know. No one knew that such a dispute existed. Members didn't know that either. So you're putting MPs in a hell of a cabal because they signed a bill that's gonna cause... Yes, Minister, you prepared this bill and gave it to them. And you missed the whole legislative procedure, not for the first time. This is incompatible with the legislative process in Poland at all, but this is not the first time you have done it. And you're getting into a really serious cabal because this case is going to be investigated and displayed by the D.A.'s office from A to Z. It's already being examined today, as you've noticed. And she's not gonna end in a concession decision... You already know who will get this concession if this bill is passed. You know that very well, though you'll be spinning your head and denying it. It's easy to trace, only from documents that have been filed, it's really known... This is a debate, not a conversation with the Minister. I'm talking to the minister because this is a debate with the minister, Senator. That's your opinion. That's my opinion, yes. And I'm talking to the minister, and you don't have to. I'm talking to the minister. That's all. I'm referring to the government. To whom should I refer, Mrs... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I know it hurts. Minister, these regulations, which you wish to return to, are very unambiguous in order for the award of concessions to be granted. And I asked for a reason who filed the licence application first. The point is that if two companies comply with the requirements of the Mining and Geological Law, at the end of the decision, who will be granted a licence for exploration and recognition, it really follows who made the first application. That's the only thing to decide. Nothing else. If any companies meet the requirements, the first company to submit an application will receive a licence for search and diagnosis. And as a result of the fact that you get a license to search and reconnaissance, it's that if you discover a deposit... Because such a private entrepreneur bears full consequences, spends giant money, invests, hundreds of millions of zlotys, and not always discovers the deposit. But if he does, if he finds a deposit, what privilege does he have? Then he has the privilege of obtaining the right to a mining licence for several years. I don't remember whether for three or five years, but for a few years this kind of law exists on his side. What do you want to do? You today really want to settle this bill using these poor PIS Members because they don't know what they signed. Who's going to get the license? You're afraid of arbitration. You just know what? Even if you decide so, on the basis of this bill, having a majority in the Sejm, there is no way without arbitration. This arbitration is gonna be both, because somebody's gonna get hurt. He's gonna do it anyway. He and so, even though the Polish state will change the rules during the process which takes place somewhere in arbitration, it will take place. And you know what's gonna happen? Poland will pay billions of damages. Who's gonna pay? You'll be paid, Senator, you'll pay, I'll pay, Mr. Marshal or your marshal. We're all gonna pay them off as taxpayers. That's what this ends with, and that's what this bill comes down to. Minister, that's not how you make a bill. This bill will already be remembered as the Granddaddy, because this law will be imputed to you and full responsibility for it will be on your side, as in the case of the Obajtek, the Szyszko... This is another example of writing law under demand, under individual companies. I've even figured out who's gonna get that license. A few more friends at the Ministry of Environment in the Department of Geology I have. I'm not gonna name any of them so you don't fire them, and I'm just gonna wait to see if that really checks out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u130	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zdzisław Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard a lot of information, many answers to the questions asked by the Minister, on my part. I'm surprised at one thing. In the discussion, we do not touch the substance of the matter, and we are talking about the issues we want to talk about, and this speaker becomes a kind of Hyde Park, not a place of practical reference to the substance of the case. At the meeting of the committee and also here, at the meeting of the High House, the Minister pointed out that the provisions of this law, this amendment, which is very short, were intended to concern fossil deposits. They regulate what has not been regulated by the 2014 Act. At the time, Law and Justice were not ruled and it was not Minister Grandpa who was the main geologist of the country at that time. Ladies and gentlemen of today's opposition, it was you who exercised power and prepared this bill. I don't know why, but by walking around, for example. Mrs. Rotnicka's reasoning could be presumed, as you presume here and press charges against the Law and Justice and the governing camp, that someone deliberately failed to fulfil his duty and did not include e.g. The fact that this law also applies to fossil deposits. I wouldn't want us to discuss, you know, to say... Because political discussion is good. I understand the opposition when it also takes a political thread and critically approaches the government because it is the law of the opposition. However, when it concerns the interests of the Polish State, when it also concerns economic operators operating in the Polish State on the basis of the rules of law, we must take decisions and actions which serve the citizens and which serve the Polish State. That is why I have applied for a law without amendments and I ask, really, for discretion and caution because even in the Seym, this law has passed without amendment. No one has tabled any amendments to this law here either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u132	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Zdzisław Pup has submitted legislative proposals in writing. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 57 and the committee's report In print No 57 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting on 20 January adopted a draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The draft law aims to amend the scope for implementation under this action programme so that farmers can receive support for good animal welfare practices. These practices are intended to provide animals with the opportunity to meet behavioral needs, as well as better health and well-being, and consequently to produce food of higher quality than standard. The implementation of this programme also responds to public expectations for improving animal welfare conditions. This type of activity has not yet been implemented in Poland. This action will support animal welfare tasks This is what is called a new action, i.e. animal welfare - which will go beyond the relevant standards of Polish and European law. On the other hand, it must be added that Polish, European law sets high standards for animal breeding, in Europe, in Poland they are far higher than in other countries in the world, so that meeting the basic requirements for breeding ensures sufficient animal welfare, but in this respect the increase in standards is most appropriate. The aim of the support is to compensate farmers for additional costs of production, adaptation of farming facilities and income lost as a result of higher cost activities and the introduction of practices related to increased animal welfare. The proposal to implement this action under the still existing Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and I would like to remind you that this programme will be implemented for the coming years, was accepted by the monitoring committee of the RDPs and then by the Council of Ministers. This draft amendment was adopted in this respect. and by the European Commission by Decision of 16 December 2019. Thus, the project had to undergo appropriate reconciliation and validation procedures, both at national and European level. The scope of the proposed amendments to the Act concerns administrative procedures related to the granting of new aid for animal welfare-related activities, so it is a whole catalogue of changes that allow the programme to be implemented in the Polish legal order and so that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture can pay such subsidies. It will first announce the selection of applications and then examine applications and make payments. The amendments proposed in the Act also include an additional element in the form of an extension of the possibility of making declarations instead of applications for certain other actions where possible, where farmers do not change their agricultural activities in the following year, i.e. the year that has now begun in 2020, if the 2019 proposal was identical and therefore there is no need to submit a new application. This applies to small farms. This possibility is also permitted by European law. I would like to add here that the details of the implementation of this project will be included in the Minister of Agriculture's regulation and farmers will be able to see detailed solutions there. Such a draft regulation was annexed to the draft law. According to this project, farmers who provide more than 20% of the minimum area for the relevant animals and, if they provide access to pastures or runways, will be able to benefit from the options they choose to apply for assistance. It will also be the responsibility of the farmer to prepare a plan to improve animal welfare. In this respect, they will be trained and prepared to provide such assistance to agricultural advisers who will assist in the preparation of such a document. When, almost a year ago, before the elections to the European Parliament, Law and Justice, President Jarosław Kaczyński announced the idea of such action, it met with various reactions. There were also attacks, attempts to ridicule, discredit this program. I'm glad today, when this project becomes a fact, you can't see these attacks. Not only farmers, not only agriculture-related environments, but also the environment of animal defenders, take this project as a positive action, because it actually realizes on the one hand the expectations of Polish agriculture, Polish villages, Polish farmers, who still produce better than standard, safer than standard, less industrial food methods, and on the other hand the expectations of those who talk about breeding animals being kept under the best conditions. This project combines and implements these two objectives perfectly and serves them. I thank you senators for the discussion during the work of the Senate Committee and for the unanimous adoption of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u134	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u135	I may be wrong, but it seems to me that the changes in this project include not only the possibility of obtaining European funds to improve the situation of animals, but perhaps also funds to invest in green areas, in areas that are actually financed by European funds because of their importance and importance. I don't know, I may be wrong, but it seems to me that this element was included in the justification, too, and the senator didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u136	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u137	There are no such changes in this project. I mentioned here that there are changes in the possibility of making statements instead of applications for payments, perhaps in this respect the senator noticed it. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u138	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Ryszard Kaminski is in the room. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? If so, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the need to respond to social expectations, as mentioned by Senator Bogucki, in terms of improving animal welfare conditions, both on the part of consumers, animal welfare groups and farmers themselves, it was decided to introduce a new action into the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. This action will reward farmers keeping cows and pigs under better conditions than those currently in force. The financial support received will compensate farmers for the costs incurred and income lost as a result of higher standards. The draft amendment to the RDPs was approved by the European Commission on 16 December. And today I have the honour to present to you a law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 At this point I would like to add, to mention that the law was passed by the Polish Parliament at its fourth meeting on 23 January 2020 and was adopted without amendments at the ninth meeting of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 30 January this year. We have more information, of course, but, if I may, that's all for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the government relating to this agenda. Would any of your senators like to raise such a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Antoni the Man signed up for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as the rapporteur and the minister presented, the discussion was going in this direction to adopt this law without amendments, because it is a law in every aspect of the good. Indeed, as the rapporteur pointed out, at the beginning of this programme there was a campaign for the European Parliament and the so-called. Cow+, pig+. However, the Act is moving in the right direction because it provides additional European aid to farmers in the framework of the RDPs, which is in force in 2014. Animal welfare is a new action. This will be paid to farmers for over-normative commitments. The point is that animal welfare is greater than the existing standards. Money will be paid for such an increase in standards. This money will compensate farmers for additional costs, lost benefits, because it is known that if someone has to reduce the population of animals, they will have fewer of these benefits. The administrative procedure, which has been well invented here, is similar to the procedures in force for agri-environment measures such as agri-climate action or organic farming. And it is good that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has been involved in this because there are already some data in the livestock register, labelling and establishment of these animals. So that I hope it works in the electronic system, Minister. And then it's practically from the vending machine... And it has to be said that due to the operation of the animal welfare system, three additional laws had to be amended: the law on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications; the law on the system of identification and registration of animals and the law on payments under direct support. As the rapporteur has already said, in the case of those smaller farms where there is no need for greening or crop rotation, i.e. up to 10 hectares, there will be no need to apply for direct payments, a statement is enough. It'll make things easier. The debate was very turbulent and we learned a lot. Of course, we were interested in the exact amounts of the year before that of the governing camp were the amounts that would be there and the Minister gave us exactly the amounts that would apply, this compensation. These are indeed significant amounts. Although as I later thought about it and talked to farmers who have intensive production... I don't know if they're gonna benefit from this program because of the fact that they're, I don't know, e.g. dairy cows, etc., profitability is quite high. Today the profitability of pig farming is also high, but due to ASF it is not possible to use runways, so it is not possible to easily increase the area by 20% per animal, per pig. So we've almost cleared that up, and this 2020 is a limitation... It wasn't exactly said. I am sure that this will work for a year within the amounts that were given at the committee meeting. In turn, later, as we are talking about, there will probably be some animal welfare programme also in the new financial perspective, 2021 and 2027. However, it is not known whether the next 3 years will be some kind of transition period, because it is known that we are clearing funds in the n+3 system and whether there will already be transitional compensation, aiming at these probably reduced rates or even the same. I'd be in favour of them being the same. Minister, I'm sure this money has to be taken from something within the RDP, and if we pay it here, for example. On the roads... Is there any way the government's planning to compensate the villages for this in other programs? It goes on for example. about the system of local roads, etc., because this is quite an important topic. We all support this, our club will support this bill, because farmers will get concrete money here, and it's probably not the wealthiest ones. And when it comes to squirting cows, I hope everyone benefits from it. Even large farmers can benefit from this because profitability in this case 'Cause it's meat cattle 'cause it's pretty low. I don't know if it's because of the accidents we've been dealing with, the issue of not preserving hygiene, etc... Well, there's a problem with meat cattle. I think even large farms will benefit here. I happen to be in favour of expanding the area. It is not like Minister Ardanowski often tells us that Poland has an average farm area such as other countries of the European Union. Recently, I read somewhere that Germany has several times the size of the average farm. But there's one more problem. We did not talk about the past in committee, because it is clear that this RDP, which is, is issued under the 2013 European Council and Parliament Regulation. Minister, when was the earliest time, so precisely, that program could be implemented? ♪ 'Cause we're a parliamentary club ♪ In my last term of office, I was an MEP. We often took part in the debate on the Budget Act to increase the veterinary inspection budget. This veterinary inspection at the main veterinarian will implement this program and there are measures needed. I remember that there's also a problem with the veterinary system at the county level... Mr. Senator, if we can... I'm almost done. I'm done. I'm almost done. Will these measures be secured? Are they secured in this budget or not? In addition, the responsibilities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture are increasing. Can we count on that in this budget? 'Cause in two weeks, we're gonna be discussing the entire budget, including the agricultural profile, and we're gonna talk about it as a committee. Will the funds be reserved here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u142	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u143	When I asked the question, I wasn't sure, but because I found an appropriate passage in the explanatory memorandum, in the legal opinion, I will quote it so that it doesn't slip away, especially to those who are interested in these proposals. The provisions of the new article. 6g introduce the possibility of making a statement instead of an application for aid under the actions, not only those referred to by Senator Antoni Mężyłko, but also concerning support for forestry and the creation of wooded areas, payments for areas with natural constraints or other specific constraints, e.g. mountain areas. I wanted it to fall out of this podium, because of course there are applicants who will be interested in such investments. It's a good thing you found that record. It's a shame it's so late, but it's a good thing it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u144	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The text of the Act is contained in print No 53 and the committee's report In print No 53 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 30 January 2020 examined the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. Purpose and subject of the bill. The aim of the Act is to implement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council. This is a number of previous provisions, amended, and new rules introduced in 2016 and 2017. They aim to improve functioning, in some way to correlate the functioning of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection with similar inspections in other countries of the European Union. The National Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection is of course involved in monitoring and caring for plant production, feed production and plant protection products. This law contains regulations which indicate how the control of plant protection products imported from third countries is to be planned. In addition, this law amends and shifts the different competences between voivodship inspections, the state inspection of seeding, the chief inspector of seed protection. It also amends the regulations relating to who provides information and what information it provides to the European Union, especially as regards all plant diseases issues. It'll also be in the next law. That's pests, plant parasites. The bill is expected. She should have come into force by December 14th, but since there have been changes, there have been elections in Parliament... There is a request from the Ministry to accept it as soon as possible. It did not give rise to more discussion at the committee meeting and the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to adopt the law without amendments was voted unanimously. In the Seym, this bill received more than 400 votes. This also shows that it is a good bill and that it was also understood in connection with the urgent need to adopt it. On behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u146	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jan Białkowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? In that case, please state your position as Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would just like to repeat what the rapporteur said earlier. This law is a law adapting the EU regulations to our legislation. Indeed, there is an urgent need to make these changes because the regulations adopted by the European Parliament and Council Regulations 2016/2031 and by the Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/625 should already be introduced on 14 December. However, because there was no legislative process, we had to repeat the whole procedure. Therefore, we very much ask the Senate to adopt a law without amendments. I'll add what the senator said. Indeed, at the meeting of the Senate Committee, the bill was discussed in a rather thorough manner, so that the proposed amendments were clarified and accepted by the senators of the members of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u148	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. I therefore open the discussion. I ask Senator Antony the Man to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to this law because, even though this law and the next law that we are going to debate today... They are really implementing 2 new regulations into the Polish legal system, 2 new regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. a Regulation on protective measures against plant pests and a Regulation on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed law and animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products. Both of these laws replace the 2003 Plant Protection Act. Because the EU rules, the previous regulations and directives... Because it was previously governed by both regulations, namely the direct law of the European Union and directives, i.e. the recommendations that we are to implement. Indeed, as the rapporteur said, the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection has separate powers and the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspector will deal with plant health, and the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector will report pests as well as issuing phytosanitary, export or re-export certificates. Indeed, this law should enter into force and it should come into force as soon as possible. We do indeed have the problem that the Minister was talking about. However, the law itself is written very carelessly. The Senate Legislative Office has tabled 13 amendments to this law and these are important amendments. I'm not saying they're all important, maybe some of them could be abandoned. But some can't be left behind. Because if there's a bad reference, how is that exporter or importer gonna read that bill and follow it? So what, he's supposed to do what he does today? In today's legal situation, it can also apply those regulations of the European Union which we implement into Polish law, using directly the translations of these regulations of the EU. Well, you can't do that here. The last amendment concerning 14-day vacathio legis in terms of criminal and criminal liability is also important. Well, you have to keep the 14-day vacathio legis so that the recipient can prepare for these new regulations, not punish it in advance. So I am making these legislative amendments to the Marshal's staff. Of course, understanding the need to do so as soon as possible, I think it can be accepted. I am still looking at the work of the Senate from the point of view of the Sejm, and in the Sejm it was so that it seemed that the Senate was not used to hold a large substantive debate, but was dealing mainly with legislation. In the Seym we received mainly legislative amendments from the Senate, sometimes substantive. There have been times when we even noticed something else in the Seym, but it was already at such a procession that we had to leave it, and then the Senate corrected it. That's why I think it would be much faster to change it in the Senate that it would be beneficial. That is why this Senate exists to make such amendments, even legislative amendments, at the senate stage, instead of amending the bill. Really, if anyone wants to, if they need it, they will benefit directly from EU regulations. And we can do it very quickly. If there is a need to improve e.g. The wrong reference is not about Article. 122, but about the article. 122a §2 etc. Well, it can't stay that way, because it's going to be a reference to a rule that doesn't exist. So I think that all of these amendments are as legitimate as possible in terms of formality. Besides, I, being in the Seym, have always appreciated this senate legislative school very much. Most of these amendments If this legislative and editorial correction was done carefully The Sejm accepted. I think today this rule will be preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the debate on the minutes and that the legislative proposal was made in writing by Senator Anthony the Husband. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These amendments, as Senator Man himself stressed, were the subject of an in-depth discussion and analysis at the meeting of the Senate's agricultural committee. Lawyers explained virtually most of these amendments. As regards the amendment concerning Article. 122a, it is indeed undisputable here that this is a mistake, but it refers to the body, not to the entrepreneur. The organ can handle it. If the application goes to the authority, it will send it in accordance with its characteristics. Right? And the necessity itself, the need to pass this law is so obvious that we would really ask that these details simply do not obscure the greater sense of the law and the interests of entrepreneurs. It's important. Well, Senator, of course, but there are important and more important things, especially since the implementing rules are not yet prepared by the European Union, by the European Commission. They are currently in the process of preparing, and once they have been prepared and passed, we will make another proposal for legislative amendments introducing these implementing rules. So that if there really is a slight error, a defect, in the future we will be able to simply correct it quickly. Therefore, I ask once again that this law be passed without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: plant protection law against pests. The text of the Act is contained in print No 54 and the report of the Commission In print No 54 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as in the case of the previous law, on 30 January 2020 examined the Plant Protection Act against pests. As I said earlier, this law is a supplement to this previous law, it is in fact a technical law, detailed, on how inspections are to be carried out in cases of pests, how to establish pest-free zones in different areas. This is very important and involves the export of plant products, agricultural products outside our country, allowing to monitor all these diseases and leads to rapid communication of information to other Member States. This goes against our exporters and farmers. The discussion was only about... There wasn't really a discussion between the senators at the committee meeting. There was a discussion between legislators about the amendments. Some of these amendments have been clarified. And some of the amendments, as the Minister said... And in that, and in that law, the Minister undertook to make some amendments to the subsequent work. 'Cause there's gonna be more regulations here, more amendments. As with the previous law, we want this law to function as soon as possible. The committee therefore requests that this law also be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u154	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak? I would like to ask Minister Jan Białkowski to present the position of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will limit myself only to calling once again for the adoption of a law without amendments as soon as possible, because it is in the interests of our entrepreneurs, it is in the interests of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u156	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I therefore open the discussion. Mr. Senator Anthony the Man would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here is a similar situation as in the case of the previous law, because these are laws that complement each other, only together they give full implementation of these directives to the Polish system of law. And they were both... This legal matter was registered in the Plant Protection Act. And here I also make amendments because here are all the legislative errors that are in those... There are also many such errors, records that refer to the provisions of the law, and in fact this matter is in the regulations of the European Union. They should refer to European Union regulations. I can't imagine how you can read such a sloppy bill. There are 15 of these amendments. The Legal Office has picked up 15 bugs and I think it's worth keeping this... I would also like to address your senators, because from the point of view of the Sejm it is really the Senate that exists to correct laws. And that's what I'm in fact, speed up the legislative work. Because everything could be improved without the Senate, but if we were to correct it without the Senate, we would have to amend this bill. And here we're making new laws. These are completely new laws. And then, as a government project, this amendment to the law would have to go through all the arrangements. And social and interministerial, which is not such a simple and quick undertaking. It really takes a lot of time. This week, because it's probably going to be a week, the Sejm will be sitting next week and accepting or rejecting... I think it's worth the bill then. There is no political calculation here, the PiS will have no... We're gonna force this week's delay on them, and whether they're gonna accept it or not, that's the same thing... so why make a bad bill when they can make a good bill? And that is why, Mrs. Marshal, I am making amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u158	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that a legislative proposal has been made in writing by Senator Anthony the Husband. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Mężyłko, after all, you participated in the agricultural committee meeting and you know very well that most of the amendments proposed by the legislator have been clarified and some have withdrawn themselves. So let's not make such an impression that it is all rotten, into a basket and just not fit to implement, to implement. In our view, the law is really necessary at the moment, and implementing it at the moment is paramount. As I said, the European Union's implementing rules are in the process of being drafted. Once adopted, we will make appropriate amendments. Perhaps, if it turns out that some records are incorrect, we will make adjustments in this regard. Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you to adopt the bill without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. May I? No, Mr. Senator, I'm afraid not. But I'm sure you'll have the opportunity... It's at the committee meeting... As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. The senator will be able to speak at the committee meeting. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 56 and the report of the Commission In print No 56 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On 30 January, we held a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which gave an opinion on amendments to the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and on certain other acts of "Senatski Print No 56." The purpose of the Act amending the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm is to entrust supervision of the commercial quality of agri-food products to one specialised body of official quality control, which is the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles, subject to the Minister responsible for agricultural markets. In accordance with the applicable regulations, the quality control of trade of agri-food products is carried out by the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection and in the retail trade of the Trade Inspection. According to the justification for the draft law, the appointment of a single official food control body is intended to allow for a faster response to emerging irregularities on the market. The amendment of the law leads to the strengthening of the role of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products in the field of substantive supervision of voivodship inspectors of the commercial quality of agri-food products. The Legislative Office did not make any comments on this change. I would like to inform the High House that the bill has been adopted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u162	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Janusz Bladder. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question for you. I just want to know what it's gonna be like right now when the inspection comes, say, to the hypermarket. In the hypermarket there are e.g. food and industrial products. So there's gonna be two inspections right now. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u164	No, there will be one inspection, Senator. One, but the industrial ones will be... No, it's gonna be the Trade Inspection. It's gonna be the Trade Inspection. So the commercial will do its job, as before, and now there will be a specialized inspection of groceries, agri-food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u165	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Ryszard Kaminski is in the room. Would a government representative like to speak? Yes. In that case, I ask the Minister to present the position of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The present law amending the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws aims at entrusting the entire task of supervising the commercial quality of agri-food products to one specialised official body for food control. To what has already been said, I would like to add that the proposed changes will make fuller use of the potential of the combined control services. Let's remember the labs that were scattered, and now they'll be at the disposal of one organ. Uniform control procedures will be put in place for the guidelines to conduct the review procedure. Let us remember that so far wholesalers supervised someone else, and shelves supervised someone else. Meanwhile, consumers expect food safety, and there were often doubts as to whether the safety expected by consumers is ensured. I have already mentioned the specialization of laboratories and the harmonisation of the applied testing methodology in these laboratories. It is also a question of faster response to emerging irregularities on the market, because in the end, these inspections are set up to respond to possible irregularities, and inspections are to respond to these irregularities. Another issue is the faster elimination of non-compliant quality products. These are the key points that should be highlighted. I would also like to say that this will certainly increase the efficiency of the entire supervisory system, and this is a key issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u167	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And traditionally, I'm asking you to take the floor of Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not have much to say about this law, but I thought that this law would be led by the Minister, not by Minister Kaminski, because I poured so many bitter words here about the other two, and this also concerns inspections. Somehow I suggested this inspection... That's too bad, 'cause here's a little honey for your heart, quite a lot, 'cause it's actually a good bill. Minister Kaminski, I have spoken to both producers and consumers. The producers are also pleased that it is harmonised that there are no two inspections, the Trade Quality Inspections of Agricultural and Food Articles and Trade Inspections. There will be one inspection. One inspection will come and examine at every stage, one inspection will come to both manufacturers... And consumers will also feel safer because inspections will not be able to shed blame. That is why I think this solution is excellent. Very good. It's a pity the Minister didn't run it, because she'd probably be the same... because in the ministry, the same lawyers were preparing it, and you'd have a little heart honey here. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Senator... I couldn't say it as a question, because I didn't really want to ask you a question, so why would I abuse that form? That's why in the speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u169	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed and Senator Maciej Łuczak made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Yes. Before we proceed to the next item on the agenda, as announced, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea 10 February 1920 in Puck and consider it as the last point. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. I therefore conclude that the Senate has accepted this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. Thank you very much to the representatives of the Ministry. The text of the Act is contained in print No 61 and the report of the Commission In print No 61 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm counting on understanding, because this is my first speech as rapporteur, so if there are any mistakes, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my job to discuss the work on the bill. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration met on 30 January this year to discuss a law on amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The purpose of this law was to amend the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration and 96 other laws. The changes aim at adapting the structure of government administration to new tasks, notably in the field of climate policy and the management of state wealth. The legislator separates two new departments of government administration: climate and state assets. As for the other changes, I will then respond to them and tell them what happened at the committee meeting. One of the most important points of these changes is the one where the legislator amends the Law of 26 April 2003 on public benefit activities and voluntary activities, namely Article. 37 novels. The current article. 4d paragraph 1 of this law provides that the Senate is taking care of Polonia and Poles abroad in the field of public task of helping Polish people and Poles abroad. Following a new task This is also to be implemented by the President of the Council of Ministers. The care of Polonia and Poles abroad is to be financed from part of the state budget concerning the Senate Office, the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers or the competent minister respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, during the committee's work, the Senate Legislative Office presented its opinion to the Act. And here's where I'd like to compliment you. I am impressed by the expertise and professionalism of our legislators who have tabled amendments. Following the discussion, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, tabled amendments agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee was attended by Minister Paweł Szrot, whom I see in the Chamber Hello, sir. Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers together with his colleagues. Senator Frankiewicz has tabled 14 amendments, Senator Komorowski has tabled 3 amendments, I have proposed to delete the article from the law. 37, which concerns the removal of the Senate's existing powers. Most of the amendments, including all amendments by Senator Komorowski, received unanimous support from the committee. My motion to delete the article. 37, which was introduced as part of the amendment to the Sejm meeting, did not receive the support of the majority and, consequently, I have requested the minority to delete the article from the draft law. 37. In his argument, the Minister stated that this is such an exemplary... that the distribution of money to Polonia is an example of proper practice of politics. We didn't agree here. I said this is the worst policy model. As for the amendment of the law and what was included in it, here we all agreed that the government has the right and even the obligation to shape its policy in this way. The organisation of ministries is also involved. To make governance as effective as possible. No one had the slightest doubt about that. In the final vote, the proposal for an amendment law was not supported by a majority. The report shall contain all the proposals made by the committee. The proposals, which have been positively assessed by the committee, are a compromise. I do not hide the fact that both the Minister and his colleagues and our legislators have worked and worked out compromises here. There are probably 2 amendments that have been agreed between the parties at a later date. It would be good if these amendments were accepted. They would have been accepted if it hadn't been for Art. 37, which caused the committee, however, not to accept this amendment by a majority. Summary. In the opinion of the committee expressed at our meeting, such a rate of proceding and amending during the session of the Sejm, a sudden amendment tabled, which should, however, be different according to the committee's procedure... There were allegations that this amendment should be introduced in a different way, however, that there should be 3 readings, which of course was not. I will no longer divorce, and I hope that the Minister will speak and answer the questions as well. Once again, when it comes to the fact that every government has the right to establish the organisational structure and departments managed by ministers, there was no doubt. She was a little concerned about the scale of today's administration's expansion. Currently, the number of ministries... If I count correctly, there are now 19 ministries, they'll reach 2, so it'll be 21. So 23 ministers, 78 vice ministers... But, as I said before, the government has the right to shape this policy. The appointment of the Ministry of State Assets, which will be managed by the super prime minister, is in a sense a reactivation of the Ministry of Treasury, and this raised doubts. The establishment of the Ministry of Climate Affairs seems rational, although the Ministry of the Environment has so far been involved. In the course of work on the organisational structure of the government, MEPs suddenly reported an article. 37 Receiver The Senate's taking care of Polonia. It raises the greatest doubts and controversy, it should not be so procededed. The very fact of denying the Senate the right to manage the funds that flow to our Polonia raises the biggest controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, in conclusion, I would like to say that the meeting that took place on January 30th... It seemed to be a working meeting, it was running in an atmosphere of developing the best solutions. However, Art. 37, which aroused the greatest controversy, caused the committee not to recommend the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator... Oh, there's a question. There you go, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u172	Thank you. I'm sorry for the late reaction, but maybe I didn't hear or listen very carefully. What was the argument for moving money from the Senate to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u173	The argument was that the government has the right to shape a policy that determines which ministries and what departments they will deal with, how this money will be shared. I haven't heard a deeper argument. Maybe the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u174	Ad vocem yet. So there was no evaluation of the Senate's operation and distribution of these funds? That's not what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u175	By the senators... It wasn't. It wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u176	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u177	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about the following. Well, because I've been a senator for a while now, and I remember last term when the government presented as a success the fact that it was destroying the Treasury Ministry. Today, de facto, by the appointment of the Ministry of State Assets, we return to this solution, that here are the companies of the Treasury in one ministry, only with a slightly different name. In this regard, were there any statements at the committee meeting that could indicate that the liquidation of the treasury ministry was a mistake, a mistake, that we were wrong, and that we were going back to the old, proven solution? Did such statements or statements fall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u178	It's not that short.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u179	Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I ask you very much, Minister Paul Szrota, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I must first of all declare that this project, submitted by a group of Members in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, was closely consulted with the government party. The individual records were agreed with us. Without going into the details of the submission which the senators know, and which I believe he has discussed fairly, Senator rapporteur, I would like to say that, yes, there is one point at issue. Of course, the government does not support this amendment tabled by the rapporteur, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, concerning the deletion of the article. 37. Well, that comes from fundamental issues. I would just like to remind you that we are not really discussing at this point, on the occasion of this submission, on which we are proceeding today, about transfers of funds. The entry, which is in the submission, concerns only the extension of competences relating to the implementation of this policy, i.e. the policy of supporting Poles abroad and Polonia, to another entity outside the Senate, i.e. the President of the Council of Ministers. This is justified in some way by the current state of affairs, because these objectives have already been pursued within the framework of the general reserve, within the framework of foreign policy. That's the justification for this record. The opportunity to discuss the financial resources and the entity to which they will be granted will, of course, be to discuss the budget law. I do not hide that a certain amendment has been tabled in the Seym, but this is not the moment in which this discussion should be opened. Senator Libicki asked the Senator of the rapporteur questions about the conditions for the creation of the Ministry of State Assets. Mr. Senator, this decision concerns a number of the most important companies of the Treasury operating on the market. And the market situation, as we know, is very dynamic, the economy is changing, the economy is developing. That's why a few years ago we decided to do this, not another solution. After analysing the market situation, after analysing the situation with regard to these companies, their functioning, their financial objectives, their economic tasks for the national economy, i.e. We have decided that it is appropriate at this particular moment, in 2020, to set up a department that will oversee the activities of the most important companies of the Treasury. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, High Senate, please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u181	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Of course, the questions were asked... I have the first question. - with regard to I have this question: is this change, namely the extension of the powers of another body, i.e. President of the Council of Ministers, is it related to the fact that in the opinion of the government, the care of the Senate over Polonia in the last term of office was wrongly implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal, if I may speak up, without waiting for further questions, which I assume will fall into our debate... Yes. I must state here that we do not view this policy as a policy which is badly implemented. I repeat: we want to sanction a state which was already present in the Polish political and legal order, i.e. The President of the Council of Ministers has actually carried out these tasks, has done them well. We want to concentrate these tasks and ensure uniform management here. And that is the reason for this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u183	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u184	Minister, we've been observing the embezzling of the Foreign Ministry for some time. I use a strong term here with full awareness that such a process should be called. For here the Foreign Office is deprived not only of its European dimension Transferred, also by virtue of this law, to the office of the President of the Council of Ministers But also what was introduced to it years ago when Polish diplomacy and economic diplomacy took place. Now you're making a move the other way. The removal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both the European dimension and the economic dimension, is simply the leaving of a stump in place of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has so far been. You said that this draft, submitted by a group of Members, was consulted with the government party. I would like to know what the foreign minister's position is: Minister of Foreign Affairs on this matter, because he will manage what will remain from the Foreign Ministry after the operation carried out by the States.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u185	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you recalled my words, my declaration of agreement with the government side of this project. And I would like to reiterate with great emphasis here that every record, even the smallest detail of this law, was also consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This form of law, on which the High Chamber is proceeding today, is the result of these consultations. All these changes... They were partly modified, also at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but as for ideas, in principle they all have the approval of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Yes, the model changes quite substantially, because a new section on European policy is being created, and institutions are created that will allow for coordination within the so-called government departments. economic diplomacy. This is a key change, an idea change. And please accept that, in the view of the government, also supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is a legitimate change. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind, I...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u187	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u188	Going into the sucursor of the Foreign Minister
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, can I have a word with you? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u190	Of course, the government calls on the High House to reject these amendments, to maintain the provisions of the submission. I would just like to say that many legislative and technical amendments were tabled both at the meeting of the Senate Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and at the meeting. I would like to share the opinion of the rapporteur on the great integrity of the work of the Senate Legislative Office. These things could be arranged. The government supports them, in addition, of course, to the amendment tabled by Senator Tyszkiewicz concerning the deletion of the article. 37.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u191	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I don't remember if it was you who recommended the liquidation of the treasury ministry four years ago. At that time I protested decisively in this matter, showing the absurdity of this decision and simply the lack of responsibility on the part of the state, as then rulers, for the property of the State Treasury, for state enterprises. Unfortunately, all my concerns have been fulfilled 100%. It is simply that companies have been dispersed, divided between individual ministers, became a domain where positions and functions were given to people who were absolutely incompetent. Managements changed in many companies, but e.g. I think it's six times in Energa. So that there was such a condition that at the same time several boards were on briefings for not taking a job with other competing entities. Yeah, it's a total embarrassment! And individual ministers put and put in the supervisory boards of people incompetent at all. Yeah, like that. The ladies were responsible for the energy industry... I respect their competence... But the librarian was responsible for matters related to national energy... I'm sure she's an excellent librarian. Introducing such people into management positions in huge companies, which decide how it will function, for example. energy in Poland, it is a complete lack of responsibility. So political competence was a substitute for substance. But I would like to ask if you really are cleaning up the question of supervision of companies of the Treasury at the moment. Are they all back under the supervision of this new ministry, or are you leaving some companies or associates out there among the various ministers who are going to put their representatives back in, not overseeing all of this? In a clean and clear way, will you carry out to the end that ownership supervision is separated from the regulator? Because it's an essential principle of functioning of the normal economy. Are you going back to that system? I'm not saying he was perfect before. But is that how you shape him right now? Is this again just an attempt to create a ministry for someone and for all sorts of things? Will it finally be in this area normally after the entry into force of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u193	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, referring to what you started your question, your speech, or are we restoring... Were you a minister of recommendation at the time... I'm sure it wasn't me. I assume it was Minister Kowalczyk. Of course, I also had the function that I have today. But one basic thing: neither politics nor, of course, the governance of a country that is the result of this policy is not entirely permanent and unchangeable. Mr. Senator, we're not dogmatics. If the economic situation changes, we change our decisions and change the model of management of the Treasury companies. You started by presenting an assessment of the functioning of the Treasury companies. First of all, I would like to say that the basic criterion for assessing the functioning of these companies is their financial performance. And they're good or very good under those boards that you've graciously judged so negative. And that's the basic criterion. Mr. Senator, let me refer to the substance of your question. Let me reply in writing, as at this point I can only say in general that some of these companies will remain in a slightly different model of supervision. But only when the legislative process on this law is completed will it be possible to give the senator a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u195	Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u196	Thank you very much. Minister, you have in part answered this question, which I had previously asked you to the rapporteur, but I would like, I would say, to clarify your reasoning. I understand that it is so that when you have removed the Treasury Ministry, it was a good decision, because for that time it was the right decision, and now, when you bring it back under a different name, it is also a good decision, because at that time it is the right one. Is that what you meant when you referred to my previous question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u197	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, actually, in answer to Senator Kleina's questions, I've developed an answer to that question. I repeat: state policy and governance are dynamic areas. I can actually confirm what the senator said in his statement. The decision a few years ago was a good decision, and the current decision is due to a change in the market situation... And she's good, too? Well, I'd be an absolute hypocrite if I didn't think this government decision was a good one with all my heart. Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u199	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u200	Minister, I have to say, now I don't understand... You say that the market situation has changed, that the political situation is dynamic. What was wrong or good about the Ministry of the Treasure being liquidated, and what is now good or bad about the Ministry of the Treasure being recreated under another name? Specifically. I am observing the economic market situation and I do not see a phenomenon which could be the source of the liquidation of the Treasury Ministry and a new phenomenon in which this Ministry should be restored. And second question. You and the rapporteur have repeatedly said that the government has the right to designate administrative fields, departments, etc., etc. Okay, but why didn't the government ask for a revision of the bill, just the Members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u201	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u202	Mr. Senator, what's changed? In 2016, the process of changes in the Treasury companies was only started. After a few years the companies developed, improved their financial effects, the state of the Polish economy improved substantially. These are the changes, Mr. Senator, which now allow for another model of management over state property located in companies. Why wasn't it a government presentation? I repeat that this project was very meticulously and deeply consulted with the government party, which expressed its full acceptance, even in its way affected some of the modifications that Senator Tyszkiewicz mentioned, both in the Seym and in the Senate. So don't worry, the government accepts this law as we put it forward, even with additional amendments, part of the additional amendments tabled to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekula, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have one question about economic diplomacy. Your statement, Minister, shows that this is absolutely justified. Members, through this element that I am about to talk about, open a short path to a diplomatic career. The point is that, according to this economic diplomat, there can be someone who meets such requirements: he has a master's degree or an equivalent degree and shows adequate mental and physical health. All other requirements that are necessary in the opinion, I hope, of all senators, are ignored in order to represent us in the international arena. In addition, those who are thus appointed to carry out economic diplomacy tasks shall have a diplomatic degree within 14 days of the appointment of the Minister responsible for economic affairs. I'm asking you to explain the essence of things. As I understand it, this issue has been consulted and you are fully aware of who we will be giving diplomatic titles to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u205	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u206	Mrs. Senator, economic and economic diplomacy, as you have pointed out here, is a very specific field of action requiring a slightly different, broader definition of the competences of those who will apply for such positions. This is where it counts. above all, experience in economic operators. And that's why it's here, not different, quite wide, yes, to draw up these limits of competence. But, as I stress, this is due to the particularities of these activities, this is due to the specifics of the scope that these people will be dealing with. And I repeat: these records were consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and were accepted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u207	Thank you. I have two questions now, Minister. And the answer to the latter is also in writing. The Minister has repeatedly stressed that the project has been consulted and consulted in the ministries in a comprehensive manner. I have the basic question: why was the project a parliamentary project then? That's my first question. And my second question. The Minister very often refers to the excellent results of the Treasury companies in response. By referring to these results, do you also mean the results of Poland's Górnicza Group, especially in the light of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 31 January 2020? And I would also like to get an answer to that question in writing, except today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u208	Mrs Marshal, I repeat that it is a practice that MEPs sometimes also report draft regulations on the structure of the executive authority. It's not an irregularity. None of the legal experts involved in this submission, either in the Sejm or in the Upper House, had any objections to this. And I repeat that the applicants were very closely consulted with the government party on the creation and modification of this regulation. But it is not a legislative irregularity that this proposal is a parliamentary submission. As far as the second question is concerned, of course, we will address it in writing. But I repeat that, in general, a good picture of the financial situation of the Treasury companies does not exclude certain problems in specific details. It is clear that this new supervisory system that we have adopted, by creating the current regulation... The present submission also aims to improve the situation in the few cases where companies have problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u209	I'll ask. Have you read this report?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u210	I cannot relate to this in detail, so I confirm that we will answer the question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u212	Two lines. One: the Minister has misled the High House because, in the case of Polish policy, responsibility for this policy exists in the departments of government administration. And traditionally, several ministries are responsible for that. The law enforced by Law and Justice means a change in the law on voluntary service and public service activities, is outside the scope of the departments. Therefore, it is reasonable to ask: if you are consciously seeking in this law to take away funds from the Senate, what was the government's assessment of the Senate's activities in this regard during the pre-election period? Second line. The Minister says political dynamics have its requirements. So I would like to ask: does the extension of the section on membership of the European Union mean the will to appoint a separate minister responsible for this department? Because today we are dealing with a situation of even deeper chaos, i.e. Minister Szymański, who, in the eyes of the public, is Minister for European Affairs, did not take responsibility for this department. Are we therefore to understand that the clarification of this section means the will to appoint a separate European minister who will assume responsibility for this department?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u213	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal, thank you. Mr. Senator, I don't know where I misled you. I didn't claim that these tasks weren't in legal order. On the contrary, I argued that they are already in the legal order and in practice, and that the introduction of such a provision, rather than another, concerning the Law on Public Use and Volunteering is due to the need to settle this situation. I would like to remind you that this change concerns the division of tasks between the authorities of the State and, as such, has a very substantial link with the submission that the High House is currently conducting today. As regards the issue of the European department, then, Minister, these changes, including the creation of this new section on European policy, are intended to properly assign the relevant tasks to the relevant ministers. And that also applies to the tasks of Minister Szymanski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u215	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u216	Minister, first of all, I will make this statement. Well, you keep saying the companies are fine. But after these institutional rotations, the ministries are being liquidated and re-created. After these rotations concerning management boards, presidents, supervisory boards, I would just say that if there was no such thing, maybe these companies would be even better. Take today's information about Elewarr. I'm gonna ask you in writing to explain what's going on in there, what's the million-dollar scams going on out there. And now I'm going to refer to the Polish money, the $100 million. Firstly, there was a general surprise in the Polish people that they were taken away by the Senate, who has been dealing with this subject for many years. Secondly, I will not hide that this is an action taken for well-known reasons, for well-known political purposes. There's nothing to talk about. And thirdly, I've already spoken. Did they talk to me? With the Polish community from Berlin and there is a great surprise that such a situation has taken place. The question arises as to whether the activities of the former or the former Senate in the field of policy related to Polonia and these expenditures have been misjudged and whether there have been consultations with the Polish community on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u217	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u218	Mr. Senator, of course we're waiting for a written question about Elewarr, and we're sure to answer that question. On issues relating to the care of Poles and Poles abroad, I have already said on several occasions that we are not debating today the issue of the transfer of funds to this will be the place and time when the budget is adopted. The purpose of this submission is to give additional powers in this respect to the President of the Council of Ministers. I repeat: this is not due to a bad assessment or to reservations about the Senate's current policy in this area. Well, that's a pretty fundamental issue, too, Ideally. If something doesn't work badly, it's not yet a reason not to improve it further, not to look for solutions that are more appropriate than those that are currently being used. Mr. Senator, this change has been consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I have not heard that the Polish environments have raised any objections. about this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u220	Minister, I have a little question about this economic diplomacy, too. Because on the one hand I hear from you that it is the task of the Treasury companies to achieve good economic results, to adapt to the needs of the market, which, of course, naturally agrees with the philosophy of running the company... But when I looked at the website of the Ministry of State Assets, I learned that the task of these companies was to provide all Polish citizens with stable and secure access to energy and to conduct an energy policy that takes into account the well-being of the citizens. Then what will these economic diplomats be accounted for? From the economic results of the companies? The pursuit of good results often runs counter to objectives such as caring for the well-being of citizens and safe access to energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u221	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u222	Mr. Senator, in your speech, in your question, you pointed out a rather important matter. In fact, you have further justified the introduction of this change that we are looking at today, pointing out how complicated and multifaceted it is to pursue a separate foreign economic policy in terms of economics. Often, one criterion must not be applied to the assessment of this activity. I confirm that here the evaluation will belong to the entity that will carry out this economic diplomacy. And this assessment will certainly be based on many, many criteria, often very subjective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u223	Thank you very much. Senator Jolanta Hibner. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u224	Thank you very much. Minister, I happen to be a member of this last term. You've told all of us that it's gonna be wonderful when we split the companies. And the ones they do, for example. defence, they will be in the Ministry of Defence under the very perfect minister, others will be in the Ministry of Development, and others will be, so to speak, in the hands of the next minister. What happened over the last four years, it turns out it was an action that was supposed to be so perfect, because it was supposed to be great under these governments, and when we met... Well, it's been two months and there's been a new CEO. It turned out that the presidents and executives were being changed as I said, glove for creation. I would like to ask what happened, that now that it is under these wonderful governments of all these individual ministers, it needs to be put back together as it was before. The actions so far have not produced the results that you originally said would be excellent. If it turned out that it wasn't going well, then why didn't you make this decision before, just waited for four years without doing anything about it? You exchanged all these presidents and boards, but it didn't work. And right now, we're seeing some kind of crisis. Every two days we get information that some company's shares are falling, it turns out that no dividends are paid, etc. So something's going on. And now it turns out that under the rule of this super minister who's going to have all the companies under him, it's going to be fantastic. I have one more question. Will all the companies that have so far been under the authority of the Minister of National Defence be subject to this Minister? Is there ever going to be any fragmentation that there's going to be a section out there, or are all these companies going to be under that minister now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u225	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u226	Well, Senator, I'd have to repeat exactly what I've said many times here, answering the questions of the individual Senators, the dynamics of the economic market, the dynamics of improving the situation of companies. Mrs. Senator, the exchange of boards of companies of the Treasury is an instrument which the owner, the State Treasury, uses to improve their situation. This is, in fact, one of the basic instruments. If you're surprised that it's used and that it's often used, then I'll let you be surprised, to be honest, because these actions that you were willing to mention have led to most of the cases. I repeat that I understand that in specific situations individual companies may have their problems, even serious In view of the dynamics of this improvement, the State Treasury's new governance model, which is presented today to the House of the Higher Parliament, has made it possible to achieve a fundamental improvement in the situation of the State Treasury companies. Senator, for the next question... I am committed to replying in writing as soon as the legislative process has been completed. Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask you: was that the last question, or was it someone else?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u227	Do any of you have a question? 'Cause I'd like to... Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u228	Minister, I have three questions, but I will respond to the words about economic success. Minister, the fact that today, in the era of economic development all over the world and in Europe, companies of the Treasury achieve good results is nothing unusual. This is not a matter of good governance, but of economics. But it's just between us. I know a little about it, so forgive me, but I'll stick with mine. So brag about the fact that a monopolist who achieves good results is something extraordinary, I don't think it's quite like that... But let's leave it. I have three questions. The first question is a question of conflict of interest between ministers. 'Cause let's take it. Minister of Assets and Climate Minister, as such new ministries are being created. As you have said, the Minister of Assets will ensure that the company achieves the best profits. What about the climate? Who will be the chief minister and who will make the final decision, whether the profit for the Treasury company is more important, or our interests in the context of climate protection? I think there's a discrepancy here. That's the first question. The second question is... It was already raining here, but forgive me, I'll repeat it again. I am talking about the speed of change and implementation after almost five years of rule of law and justice on the knee of the prepared law. Because if I'm not mistaken, then... The Lord says it was consulted and prepared. On 22 January, the self-correction project went to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the project on the same day requested its adoption as proposed in the report. In addition, this amendment concerning Polonia appeared, in short, and on 23 January the Sejm voted it. So we're talking about two days that this whole process has been going on. Were there really consultations with Polonia within two days, such as institutions or stakeholders? I have very serious doubts about that. 2 days to push through very important laws and introduce an amendment which, according to the legislators, is also a violation of the law, because there should be three readings. But okay, let's stick with each other. And one last question: what about the amendments? Because 19 amendments show that this bill was not well prepared. We do not question what I was talking about, the right for the government to shape its policy, but 19 amendments were adopted unanimously. Okay, good adjustments... And what you're going to do now, I'm sorry, I'm going to say it brutally. With that bullshit that goes to the Sejm and gets voted out, if there were so many things in it to be improved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u229	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, conflict of interest. First of all, I would not call it a conflict of interest, but a possible doubt about the implementation of government policy. Mr. Senator, there's always a super minister who's gonna settle such possible doubts. This super minister is the President of the Council of Ministers. It's a hierarchical structure. And if there's any doubt... Anyway, it's a process that happens all the time. The doubts, as in any complex structure, arise and the President of the Council of Ministers explains them on the basis of one or another central administration. It's nothing new, it's nothing unusual, it's always been that way. The conflict rules concerning the settlement of these doubts have been contained in Polish almost for many, many years and this is implemented. Hurry up, Mr. Senator. Senator, the justification is fundamental: the government needs to start operating in a new formula as soon as possible, and the change you are talking about has not been so complicated as to spend long weeks on it. We held an in-depth discussion on this at the meeting and the Parliamentary Committee and the Senate Committee. Mr. Senator, I think... I myself am a lawyer, I have worked many times on billing projects, even before I have been entrusted with this function that I am currently performing, and I know that sometimes it is necessary to work long and sometimes it is enough for two days. Mr. Senator, it's nothing... Did you consult the state in two days? It's not weird, Mr. Senator. Consulting... And actually take this as an answer to the third of your questions. I would like to state one thing, Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I've always valued you very much. And I'm saying this completely, absolutely abstracting from the political situation in the upper chamber of the parliament. Even before I started doing this job, with lawyers, with legal experts at the Senate Office, because they, and I also speak as a lawyer, look at projects from a slightly different perspective, notice things that previously are difficult to notice, which maybe other entities pay less attention to. And please consider these words as an expression of some appreciation for the Upper House and its role in the constitutional order of the Republic of Poland, in the system of law-making. And the fact that there are a lot of amendments to the bill, it's not unusual. First of all, I would like to say one thing: thanks to the joint work of all the senators, thanks to the involvement of the Senate's Legislative Office, we can make this law, the State, the High Chamber, and the Sejm can accept it in a better version than the one in which the Senate received it. That is why I, on behalf of the government, would like to express my support for the absolute majority of the amendments, with the exception of this amendment by the senator on whom we have a fundamental, ideological dispute. And I would call on the House of Higher Education to try to improve this bill so that it is finally adopted in a slightly better way than the one in which it was submitted to the High House. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u231	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u232	I'd just like to ask. So you're saying that in two days you've been consulting with Polonia, too, right? And the second question, that may be more fundamental. Do you think This is about the money of Polonia, in short, to art. 37 - is this a political decision or a rational one? Consultation protocol. Excuse me... And is there a consultation protocol, like with Polonia? Because you said these consultations were held. It took you 2 days to force a law, which is a very important law, because it concerns the functioning of the whole state. Two days. Do you have a consultation protocol?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u233	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u234	Mr. Senator, this project, this particular change, has been consulted with the actors who have been involved in this project. cooperation with Poles and Poles abroad and were engaged in supporting Poles abroad. It is currently also being discussed in the Upper House, in the Senate. And as for the alleged dichotomy you presented, the false dichotomy, Mr. Senator... Because I'm going to say that this change is both a political change in the sense that every case we're dealing with here, where I'm visiting you and you're debating... Each case is a political matter because it concerns the most important matters of the Republic of Poland and citizens. Every case is a political matter. So this is both a political change and a rational change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u235	Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u236	But one more word. There are no consultation reports? Are they or aren't they? If I may...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u237	Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u238	The consultation report... I'd like you to take a look at the minutes of the committee that this... So there's a consultation report? Thank you. I'd like you to take a look at... This is a consultation report, Senator. But... Please accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u239	Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u240	Minister, before I ask a question, a brief corrigendum to which you will be able to address. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You said you're calling the European Union. First of all, there is no European Union, only the Polish Membership in the European Union. Yes. And second of all, you're not calling. Such a department is and is supervised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Yes. Which, of course, makes sense because the state should have one centre coordinating the foreign policy strategy, whose membership of the European Union is a key, key element. However, I have a question about evicting the Ministry of Economic Diplomacy. Here we are dealing with the same mechanism referred to when it comes to setting up a de facto liquidation 3 years ago of the Treasury Ministry. Well, three years ago, you did a great reform by taking away the Departments of Trade and Investment promotion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and establishing the so-called. ZBH, i.e. foreign trade offices subordinate to the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. Without diplomatic status, they were supposed to have a lot of money, and they had a lot less money. They were supposed to be multiplayer and fully professional, and sometimes these people work in their own apartments, without business phones, without business cars, with a limited budget. In many institutions, these are single-person offices. Business is extremely dissatisfied after 3 years of this strange creation. Do you, in the same way, admit defeat? Or are there other reasons why you first made a very serious and missed reform three years ago, and at the moment you're partially reversing it? Because, of course, what you are proposing now does not restore the power of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to new structures, but gives them away, in my opinion, in a nonsensical way, entirely to the Ministry of Development. Please answer me. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u241	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u242	Mr. Senator, of course it was partly a slip of the tongue. It is about the new definition of the framework of the section of "Membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union." And, uh, back to your question... I fundamentally disagree with the logic, which is no longer presented here for the first time, that the condition of change can only be a situation in which something works absolutely badly. No. Lessons should be learned from a certain evaluation of the situation and you can also improve something that works properly that works well. One doesn't rule out the other. And that's the reason for the change. This is also to learn some lessons from the changes that have taken place for 3 years. Please accept that the government does not misjudge this, but simply evaluates, improves certain decisions that have taken place earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u243	Thank you. Does anyone else have a question? Mr. Senator Kazimierz... ...Leszek Czarnobaj. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. That's how I looked at it, and...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u244	That's a hard name to remember. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In order not to prolong, that is one statement. I'm worried about it, and I think, Minister, you need to look at it a little bit. It is about this fantastic functioning of state-owned enterprises in the economic boom. Well, unfortunately, according to the last report, it ends a little bit. But that's not... That's just what I wanted to say to that discussion I heard. I have one question. If the Minister doesn't know now, I'd ask for an answer in writing rather... We meet the Minister every time something happens in the departments, we create institutes, things, we support each other. Could you answer me, Minister? 'Cause it's definitely a big advantage of the state as law and justice. How many different kinds of institutions, institutes, state-owned enterprises have been... Maybe not, I'm blurring the business. How many institutes and various types of organisations, state institutions financed by the budget were created during the rule of law and justice, from the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation, beginning on the State Water Farm How many were created during the rule of law and justice? If you can get an answer in writing, I'd appreciate it. Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u245	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u246	Thank you, Senator. My visit to the High House without argument with the senator would leave me with a sense of unsatisfiedness. I know, I know, I was in a hurry. I've noticed. About the question you asked... Maybe I'll start with an earlier statement because you gave some general assessments. Unfortunately, the situation of the Treasury companies is not yet fantastic. I'd like to say with some emphasis. Here, Senator Tyszkiewicz, agreeing with me on the good situation of most companies, pointed to the prosperity of the global economic market. Senator, somehow the laws of the world economy are functioning in a surprising way, because the good economics are somehow cyclically falling within the rule of law and justice. A Nobel Prize winner should, in my opinion, analyze it and draw some conclusions from it. I'll talk about it in the debate. I repeat, the situation is not fantastic. About the new institutes... Yes. ...I can speak for the Chancellery of the Prime Minister right now. One institute was established, two institutes were transformed, taken over under supervision. We'll answer in writing... Yeah, okay. ...because, of course, institutes supervised by KPRM are not the only institutes in the system, in the legal order of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u247	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Then thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the government representative, Minister Paweł Szrot, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by the senators, by Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanec, Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... Senator Marcin Bosacki signed up first.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In this proposal for a law on departments there are things that make sense and very little sense. Makes sense to me, for example. the appointment of the Department and the Ministry of Climate, but many others, as we talked about, e.g. State assets or the matter of Polonia are things in my opinion that are absolutely contrary to better governance in Poland. I want to focus on one aspect, which in my view belongs to the other group, which is most of the cases that this law proposes in a wrong or defective way, on the actual dissection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been weakened since 4.5 years. At the moment, as we are hearing, there is to be its virtually complete dissection or final evisceration, without resistance or opposition from the current foreign minister, whom I consider to be the weakest of those who have been in office since 1989, which does not mean that the most harmful. There were two who were more harmful, but at least they had some political position, which is missing from the current minister. The dissection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to take place on absolutely key European issues and on issues of economic diplomacy, whose importance from year to year, not only in Poland, is absolutely, quickly and significantly increasing. There are no major and large solutions in the European Union so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have at least a power of coordination over these two departments. Yes, they're in offices or premier offices, bodies, groups of dozens. - or dozens of experts in the European Union's affairs, but nowhere is it that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is deprived of the entire departments in which the State's expertise on this matter is actually forged. You are invigorating chaos, for personal reasons and political strategies, but rather the absence of it, as well as political drift. This chaos has intensified in Polish foreign policy for more than 4 years. I will give you an example of yesterday's meeting of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, when I asked the Minister who is supposed to cover this department after he is separated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... Besides, the question arises as to how it will be, whether it will include, whether it will include the Prime Minister himself, which would be a bizarre solution, or whether you will appoint a Minister who has not answered this question. A separate Ministry for European Affairs. Well, Minister Szymański at the meeting of our committee 2 days ago was supposed to answer my question whether Minister Anders, excuse me, Ambassador Anders, Ambassador of the Republic of Italy, consulted with the authorities of the Republic of Poland, with the government at a nationalist conference in Rome composed of representatives of parties such as Salvini party, party Le Pena, party Vox, extreme pro-Russian wing of British conservatives, etc., etc. The Minister said that he was no longer in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and therefore could not answer that question. Well, this answer, as in the lens, shows what kind of chaos you're creating. No one will know who does what in European matters, who has supervision over who or even who coordinates what. In the second case, i.e. in the area of economic diplomacy, you are probably trying to correct your errors from 2017, when the so-called. ZBH, i.e. foreign trading offices subordinate to the Polish foreign investment agency, completely expelled from the diplomacy structures to the extent that their employees were deprived of diplomatic status, which in many countries caused an absolute lack of ability to act effectively. That system, which you revolutionized three years ago, caused that many of these people don't have insurance, they don't know where they pay taxes, they don't have cars, they don't have apartments, they're single-person offices. I say this after many conversations with a serious and medium-sized business, which most expect the support of the state on foreign markets, is extremely dissatisfied with this solution. However, this does not mean that you are now to set up an absolutely separate branch in diplomacy, which is not a foreign minister, but in foreign institutions which are not subject to ambassadors. The ambassador, if he is to take responsibility for Poland's presence in the country, must have at least a formal authority over these people. Meanwhile, you bring diplomacy power to the fact that within 14 days in a mandatory manner such persons, taken from unknown sources, the Director-General of Foreign Services, whoever it is, is to grant a diplomatic degree. This is absolutely absurd. You do all this at a time of strategically very difficult for the Republic of Poland. The world close to us, in the south, in the east He's getting more and more confused and agitated. We know. We've even seen it in the last few weeks. What projects against Poland and against the European Union are Russia persistently taking place. We know that for the alliances we have so far, maybe we can. Let's hope so! They continue to count, but they are even challenged by the leaders of the most important members of these alliances, who say that they are obsolete. In all this, actually, the state is right. If you followed her, but I still believe you care about the state, I'd like to believe it. It should be based on 3 cases. First of all, for internal cohesion and solidarity, but you do everything you can to deepen internal divisions in the country. Secondly, on the strong settlement of Poland in the European Union Unfortunately, you in many fields, not only with regard to the stubbornness of the judiciary, go to war with the European Union, this also applies. climate and many others. Third, building even more efficient diplomacy and, of course, the army But I'm leaving it on the side, although there's also a protocol of damage. You, on the other hand, are weakening the strategic centre of the state in foreign affairs, breaking it down. The fact that the Foreign Minister is not protesting this is tragic, but it is evident that this is due to his character and political situation or political position. More of a character. But the fact that you're going to do this is going to have an absolutely tragic impact on the fate of the country in these uncertain times. I appeal to you: think about it, because the good of the Republic requires the internal cohesion of Poland's strong position in the European Union and one centre coordinating Poland's strategy on the international stage, especially in Europe! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u249	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good standard should be that the law amending the law on government departments is simply the result of government submission. It is best if it was just part of the exposé of the Prime Minister, or at least if there were laying out its essential elements. Well, that's not how it happened. We are dealing with an act that has two features: it is an act of greed and it is an act of deep irresponsibleness. The expression of arrogance involves the collection of measures which, in the opinion of the general public, also in the opinion of the Law and Justice, well spent the Senate, supporting the Polish initiatives. And you're changing here not even the law on government departments, but also the law on public benefit activities and volunteering, so as to pave the way for a fiscal adjustment to change this state of affairs, which a few months ago you judged very highly. What, though, is an act of irresponsibleness? Well, that's what we've been talking about several times. First of all, since the Minister and the Prime Minister believe And they have the right to think so. It was political dynamics, changing political needs that required a revision of the law on government departments, that it had to be done with the elevated caliper, it had to be submitted with the raised caliper, not to eat the parliamentary project. And the second sphere is the sphere. no longer responsible for specific decisions. If you want to convince Senator Bosacki and the High House that these changes dictate your sense of responsibility, tell us what is the political plan with regard to the foreign affairs department and the Polish membership in the European Union. Will these departments be entrusted to one minister or two ministers? What will it be like to overcome absolute chaos here? I am talking about this because today we are dealing with the situation of the European Minister, who is not responsible for the European department, is in fact the Prime Minister's advisor. If you have a sense of responsibility, just say what you want, don't be afraid and tell me what you want. Answer these arguments of Senator Bosacki. If you can't answer these arguments, then don't be surprised that the only way out is to vote against this bill. And that's an expression of responsibility, because we can't answer our irresponsibleness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u251	Thank you. Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been sitting in this House long enough and have a good enough memory to remember all this confusion about the Polish and Senate issues. It is fair and fair to say that the first attempt to take away the issue of Polish Senate was made by Minister Sikorski. And he made it effective. I remember with what determination he defended money for Polonia for the Senate from Minister Sikorski, Marshal Borusewicz. I was at a meeting at which Minister Sikorski used Marshal Borusewicz and in this discussion of arguments, I would say, not very nice. I will not quote them here, but these were not, in my opinion, nice arguments which were used against Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. And so it happened, the Foreign Office took over this money for Polonia, after which there was a change of power, the Law and Justice came. One of the first steps of Law and Justice was to restore the Senate's money to Polonia. Let's be honest. We, who were in opposition at the time, thought this was a good move. I think it was one of the few cases that we've decided over the divisions, to say the least. We thought the Law and Justice was doing the right thing when he brought the money back to the Senate Polonia, just as it's been for 30 years. Now there is a new term, the majority has changed in the Senate and the Law and Justice say: no, the Senate should not deal with the Polish issues, we will take all the money. The problem is one. Mr. Marshal Grodzki and his crew didn't even start managing that money, and you're already taking it. The question is, why are you taking them? Well, I don't want to believe that the argument is that the Senate of the previous term of office mismanaged these funds. Well, I don't believe it. I don't accept that. That the Senate under the direction of Marshal Karczewski mismanaged these measures. So what's the argument? There isn't even any matter to prove that Marshal Grodzki mismanages this money because he hasn't started managing it yet. I do not want to listen to rumors, but sometimes some say that quite a lot of these funds were transferred to the Polish Gazeta clubs in various parts of the world. I do not want to believe that such conduct under the direction of Marshal Karczewski here in the Senate of the previous term of office was taking place. It is impossible in my opinion that this is the case, so I absolutely reject this argument, which I want to say very clearly. Now, yes, Minister Szrot has presented this line of argument... Oh, I'll go back to one more aspect. I would like to draw attention to another important element of the fact that the Senate managed money for Polonia. Well, it was also a chance for our compatriots, e.g. from the East, teach self-government by directing them to various organizations in Poland, which could pass on our local experience to them. In my opinion, it was a valuable activity and this activity should continue. Minister Szrot has presented such logic... I know that logic. The minister says this: it's all working well, but we're gonna make it work even better, and that's why we need these changes. I know it. If Prime Minister Szydło was a very good prime minister, why was she called off? Because she was a very good prime minister. That's why she was replaced by a better prime minister. Then there was a law on IPN, which was very good when Minister Jak presented it, but it was changed in the presence of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because they wanted to make it even better. It's okay that the second amendment contradicted in the essential points of the first one the idea was to convert a very good bill to an even better one. The same is true of the Treasury Ministry. Normally, logically thinking man would say that all these changes are increasing chaos, but I see one fundamental plus in all of this. Well, no one from the Law and Justice, from the senators, can deny that you have a very good president. I hope that you will change it to an even better one, and to a great advantage for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u253	Mr. Senator Tight. Senator Skurkiewicz is already fixing his tie. He's getting ready. The president? But let's not comment, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no way to comment on speeches in the Rules of Procedure. You can take this place and refer to it. You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Senator Tight. Let's not demand too much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, do not speak at a time when you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Minister said a moment ago that the Treasury companies achieved excellent results and that these results would be accounted for. I will give you an example of how these companies achieve these results or how they want to achieve them. The Act on Government Administrations sets out new divisions, including a division comprising state assets, which are subject to the Minister of State Assets. On the website of the Ministry I found a list of the main objectives to be pursued by the Ministry by means of these assets, i.e. companies of the Treasury. These are tasks: to ensure stable and secure access to energy for all Polish citizens, to conduct an energy policy that takes into account the well-being of citizens, natural resources and the opportunities and needs of the state. In fact, I have a sad opportunity to observe in my constituency, how the company underneath this minister provides the people of Elbląg, so citizens, access to energy and how it takes into account the well-being of citizens. One of the most important assets is Energa, who, under this ministry, has an obligation As little as any company will pursue precisely such goals, because its CHP plant provides heat for 120 thousand inhabitants. And this company demanded from the city, from the city government, long-term unconditional guarantees of heat buy-out, and when it did not receive such a guarantee, unilaterally declared to the city a contract for the supply of heat. It was on the basis that you didn't want to accept our terms, so you wouldn't have any heat at all. Since September 30th, there will be no hot water in Elbląg, and the radiators will be cold. There could be drama. People will freeze in their apartments, people will freeze in their apartments, because the government won't guarantee... Although one department is a climate department, I didn't see there were guarantees that the winter wouldn't be cold. And if it gets cold, people can freeze in cold apartments. And everyone knows that in December, the termination of the contract with effect from September of the following year leaves nine months in which no city will build its own heating plant. So what city has the chance to negotiate with such a company? It's a chance like that famous client who goes to the locker room, and the locker room tells him, "I don't have your coat, and what are you gonna do to me?" And what can the city do to such a company from the Ministry of State Assets? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the classic, exemplary behaviour of a predatory monopolistist, the use without any scruples of his monopoly position to blackmail the city, the local government, the citizens. This is an extreme attempt to achieve the objectives effectively with the use of State Treasury companies installed in the Department of Energy. Unfortunately, the beautiful objectives set out on the Ministry's website do not limit these practices in any way, and after the adoption of this law, the number of entities that will be able to achieve these beautiful objectives of ensuring safe access to energy and taking into account the welfare of citizens will be significantly expanded. Instead of providing energy security, as it is written, they will blackmail local governments, threatening citizens with the loss of this security. But in this case, which I am referring to here, I will fight, even if someone calls me an informer, I will fight to ensure that no company of the Treasury blackmails the people of this city. I am giving this example during the process of this law so as to tell you why I will not vote in favour of this dangerous law. That, in my opinion, is a sufficient reason not to adopt such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u255	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska... No, Bogdan Zdrojewski, I'm sorry. Senator Zdrojewski, I'm sorry. He's a little bit like you. No, not like him, not like him at all. I'm sorry, but I'm always thinking about the senator, but I'm not used to it yet. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First, I'm gonna go back to my experience. I was president, especially Wrocław, minister, culture, change organizational regulations, change statutes as well. It has always been my initiative, my own as the one responsible for the structure, for the organization, for the rules. It seemed natural, obvious and most justified to me. Whatever it is, the boss is responsible for the proper functioning of this structure, which he is, in short, the manager. And I can't imagine a councilman coming to me with a proposal for regulations or an MP coming to me with a proposal from the Ministry. And here's the situation, and I want to draw attention to it. Members come to Prime Minister Morawiecki and say: we have a proposal to change the rules of operation of your institution, departments, etc., etc. It's absurd, it's ridiculous to treat us as recipients, us as voters. But that also means that Members know better how to set up a government, a ministry, from the boss himself, a manager, in this case a prime minister. In addition, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's questions were not answered as to how these consultations took place. They said they were extremely intense. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as far as direction is concerned, it was the consultation of those who initiated the changes with those who accepted them and were supposed to implement them or implement them. I stress this because I find it inappropriate, as an expression of incompetence, but also a lack of logic in the government itself. Perhaps it is a form of a vote of distrust of your own crew towards your own prime minister, because it can also be assumed for something like this. The second element, very important. Please note the method of arguing the appointment of the Treasury Ministry again With a new name. The argument is: when the Ministry of the Treasury was liquidated, the situation of the companies was not good, and now the Ministry of the Treasury is calling, because the situation of the companies is good, not extraordinary, but good. Wasn't it better to wait until the situation was extraordinary and then return to the Ministry of the Treasury? Perhaps in this logic there is such a belief that it is already so good that it is worth ruining something. I also have to say that I get used to names, addresses, as voters do. The recipient of the work of certain departments or institutions. When I became Minister of Culture and National Heritage, I was a cultural expert. I knew that we were dealing with a type of butterbutter, in a sense, because national heritage belongs to culture. The concept of culture includes what is a national heritage. But what else is to add to the name the Ministry of Culture, the element of national heritage, and what else would be the act of deleting it. So I didn't allow myself to delete national heritage, even though it's in culture, because I know what it would be like to take it. The reception would be negative, as if the national heritage for the new minister was invalid. I am therefore surprised that the name is being changed at the moment. I think it would be better to return to the name of the Ministry of Treasury. Why? That's logical, too. It should be remembered that on our Polish market we have companies of the Treasury. We have State Treasury companies, not state assets companies. Will PKN Orlen be a company of state assets at the moment? No, he'll be a company of the Treasury. And it will belong to the authority of this ministry, which is now to be called the Ministry of State Assets. I warn against such activities, creative changes of names, because they do not serve clarity, readability, even in the case of decisions. If this was to conceal an error in the liquidation of the Ministry of the Treasury, then it is not possible, and when it comes to changing the nature or area of competence, it is worth to add this, in short. But I suggest you think about it. Now for a little bit about Polonia, about the funds. Of course, in this law, in this amendment, we do not take measures We are only making a change in the legislative provisions, in the legal provisions, so that this can be done. That's what I'm paying attention to. The fact of Donald Tusk's government was recalled when this was also the case, which means it was taken from the Senate... I will remind you that the Senate was then a member of the governing team, defending Bogdan Borusewicz, then a marshal, and this attacker was a member of the government of the same team, Radosław Sikorski. I remember the situation exactly, and I remember that it was about specific disputes. Not just one argument, but a specific dispute. For expenditure on specific investments which were carried out without consultation, without agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, without coordination. Then there was a particular reason why there was a difference of opinion in this matter. I don't see that as a justification right now. Now we have more of a political justification. Now we have the situation that Senator Libicki mentioned, i.e. that, in a sense, it can be said that this is an evaluation of the activities of the Senate of the previous term of office. I, too, reject the fact that this is a negative assessment. At the same time, I would like to point out that those who are recipients of funds, this senate care, do not live in Poland but abroad, and they prefer to have stability in the policy of supporting their various activities and prefer to have one stable address to which they can direct specific requests, knowing that they will find the right person, to the competent body, which, in short, exercises this care. So I reject all the elements that build instability, political belief in activity. In this case, the legislative one with consequences, which, as they say in Lviv, are building a mess. I'd rather avoid this mess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome. No, I've spoken before. No? But you're written down, Mr. Senator... Excuse me, sir? Good. I'm sorry, but your name was on the board the whole time. In that case, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just gonna pay attention to the elements I always pay attention to when the Minister is here. I'm not going to be very revealing, but I'm going to say this: I'm proud that in some areas we are at the forefront. There's an area where we're definitely in the lead. This is the number of the government. I traced the story. It turns out that since 77... there was a time when we had 77 ministers and vice ministers, but there was a very good time, as Senator Libicki said, Prime Minister Szydło, when we had 126. Well, that was an obvious record in Europe. And today, I'm reading this, we have 111, so it's not bad, although it's a little less. But there was a new field: government representatives. Well, here we are clearly the best in Europe. If you want to build the power of the Republic on the size of the administration and the number of the government, then I say simply: Ladies and gentlemen, do not go this way. I know how this must be done. There's a man coming in from a little game who wants to say something about the coalition, what do you have to do? The government. Such mechanisms also exist. Therefore, the element of government size is very important. What's in the history of economic affairs that will be discussed in the budget when we're working on it? Ladies and gentlemen, within 3 years, there is a 22 percent increase in expenditure related to the area I am talking about. And KPRM himself... Oh, there's a good score here, too. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two areas, as I mentioned yesterday, where there is the greatest increase in the times of law and justice. You think it's an investment? Well, I'm afraid not. That's where I regret it. There are two areas, great. One is public television. 100-percent increase. In 3 years 4 billion PLN. Yesterday's touching speech by Senator Komarnicki, showing a kind of direction where we should direct this stream of money or advertising, promotion, slander, or health care... We're good here. And it's the same with KPRM expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 they amounted to PLN 147 million. And did you know that in 2018 they already amounted to about PLN 350 million? I know there's gonna be extra work to do now. Of course, as administration increases, it is necessary to give some tasks. Yes, a two-and-a-half-fold increase in KPRM expenditure, not for investment, for maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is another area I asked the Minister to answer in writing. Which I'm sure we're in the lead too. This is the number of government institutions created during the rule of law and justice. I say there's 18 of them, but I read it could be 15. Yes, 15 institutions have been set up, starting with my favorite famous institute, as someone calls it, monitoring freedom, working with NGOs. There are two countries... National... Please? National Institute... Yeah, national. I'm sorry. It's about the Freedom Institute to be precise. There is a country called Hungary, they have such an institute, and there is Poland where the government monitors it, others say that it cooperates with NGOs. That's why I want to say that all the time when this tribune is being argued for change, I'm waiting. And I hope someday I'll see Mr Szrot will say: we reduce the number of administrations, we reduce the number of institutes, we reduce from 120 to 70, because there were at least 77, and this is the effect of our good, wise governments, the rule of good change. I count on it, Minister, I believe in you, I believe that you will say this one day: we have 3 years left to fight, we are reducing the administration in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has long since, so to speak, abdicated part of its role. During the previous term, we witnessed how in this hall in late afternoon in 2017, if I remember correctly when the discussion on the IPN law took place, the face of this amendment was the Deputy Minister of Justice, Minister Patrick Jak, and Deputy Minister Dziedziczak, was diplomatically speaking. It is not very active in these matters. It was the Ministry of Justice that not only gave face, but also gave dynamics to these changes, which led to the loss of many years of hard work of hundreds of people and many organizations, state institutions and non-public institutions to restore good relations between the Polish people and the Israeli people. Moreover, these changes led to the fact that, as Senator Anders said at one point, Polish-American relations with Washington were violently disturbed. Because the State Department has made a clear and precise statement on this matter. So that we have already dealt with the abdication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in fundamental matters for Poland. But we have never dealt with the castration of the Foreign Ministry in recent years. Well, there is a process in front of our eyes which will result in leaving only part of the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, limiting the powers of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, leaving only what is international relations, but which does not shape only the image of Poland in the world and does not contribute to the realisation of our national interests. You could say we're going back to the old man. Yes, it used to be the Office of the European Integration Committee. But that was when Poland sought membership of the European Union. And then it was explained somehow. And now the transfer of European competences to the Prime Minister's office is nothing but a return to a used solution. Thus, the transfer of these competences from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs anywhere else is a deprivation of this essential role which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should play. However, foreign ministers within the Foreign Affairs Council, within the Foreign Affairs Council, have a fundamental voice in matters relating to the European Union's foreign policy and it is foreign ministers who take the key decisions. Well, what's it gonna look like if the whole pawn that's been to the Foreign Office so far is at the Prime Minister's firm? I remember years when economic and trade departments functioned independently of Polish diplomacy. We regretted it. We saw a lack of coordination. We have seen problems resulting from this lack of coordination. Finally, after years of economic growth has been successfully incorporated into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and therefore there has been an integration of what is necessary to be integrated. And now, right in front of us, there's a new economic separation from the rest of diplomacy. So we return to a situation where there will be insufficient integration, sufficient consolidation and supervision of what is economic diplomacy on the part of the Foreign Minister. I don't believe because I can't believe that the Foreign Minister has agreed to deprive him of such functions voluntarily. The Minister says otherwise, he says otherwise. The Minister also said that the parliamentary project was consulted with the government. But what does it mean to be consulted with the government? It is up to the government to propose solutions, and we, Members and Senators, should only give them an opinion, not the other way around, Minister. If it is true that it was the Members who prepared the project and then the government only consulted it, then we are dealing with a reversal of the natural order, and that is when Poland, as one of the Member States of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, is subjected to the same external pressure. We're surrounded by the crescent of fire. I like that term because it actually gives away what is going on behind our flank, behind the southern flank and behind the eastern flank, both in the European Union and in NATO. And with this crescent of fire, we should consolidate what is divided and integrate what is similar and not the other way around. However, the exact opposite process of disintegration and division takes place in front of our eyes. I do not understand this idea, I do not understand why, in a situation of increased threats to our country and the east, and from the south, such disintegration is taking place. I am unable to understand this, and therefore I have tabled amendments which would leave economic diplomacy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European pawn in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If they are not accepted, like many of my colleagues, I will have to vote against this bill. But I'd like to vote in favour of the bill because this bill is the government's domain. It's up to the government to decide the department of administration. It comes to a completely paradoxical situation, such that it is the opposition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the opposition goes into the sucursor of the Foreign Minister. This isn't right. We should all together defend the integrity of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u261	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Government representatives! I think it would be worth paying attention to a few elements on the occasion of this law. The first point I would like to draw attention to is the fact that the State's share of assets comes back to one hand. I remember the discussion that probably took place in the autumn of 2016, when the changes took place following personal changes in the Ministry of the Treasury, which occurred probably in September 2016. And then there was quite a long discussion in this room about this, let's call it, the surveillance of the scattered, supervision that was to be carried out in the substantive ministries. At the time, I was a little sceptical about this solution, because, on the one hand, ownership policy, of course, when taking into account the specificities of a particular industry, a given area, a given area, should be taken into account, but on the other hand the principles of personnel policy, certain general principles of ownership policy should nevertheless be concentrated in one hand. And I am pleased that the government is returning to this idea because the Minister has supported, although it is a parliamentary presentation, this direction of thinking. And I think that one of the basic elements or tasks that are going to be permanent before this resort is, in my opinion, an essay. And it is necessary, as I say, for social and political reasons, It is like a code of good practice or a code of personnel policy in the area of companies of the Treasury and with the participation of companies of the Treasury. This is a subject that has basically been coming back for 30 years, constantly appears, with varying intensity, in different political configurations, with different assessments. And it's a subject that arouses extraordinary social emotions. Hence, I believe, this announcement which was just, if I remember correctly, in September 2016, still during the time of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, that rules should be developed that would determine who, under what rules, what competences... The idea is to rule out situations that are particularly disgusting to the public. This would also apply to the level of earnings. I know that at the beginning of the last term there were changes in this area, and particularly pathological phenomena, I am talking about extraordinary checks, about the enormous earnings of the Boards of State Treasury companies, but there would be further consequences. I know there are rules, but they're pretty scattered. It would be worth considering this issue because it would serve transparency, transparency of public life. Then half the discussions that come up, whether or not a person X is rightly earning some amount that is superb for a lot of people... Well, they would be rationalized in some way. The second area I would like to talk about is the issue of care for Polonia. Well, as we know, since 1929, and on the personal initiative of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, the Senate has traditionally taken care of Polonia. Why the Senate? Well, it was historically justified, taken from the tradition of the First Republic, when representatives of different ethnic groups were in the Senate, at some point also religious, not all, but many. And it was also politically justified, because the Senate in some sense is an emanation of the nation. The Senate's membership corresponds to the will of the voters and the Senate is a good place here because of its historical tradition. And for him to take care of it, it's been working for years. At the same time, it is worth noting that the Senate has developed certain know-how, knowledge for 30 years since its rebirth. There is a Polish Office, there are people who are aware of the requests that are coming, who are familiar with them. The senators, especially from the commission for communication with Poles abroad, are in current contact with Polonia, the Senate Bureau is very often taking part in trips and, above all, there are meetings with Polonia. So you can say that there is a lot of knowledge in the Senate about this, and there are great contacts too. I remember the very discussion in 2012 when the then foreign minister Radosław Sikorski claimed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would do it better that the senators did not have access to full information that there are diplomatic services, consular services, there is a flow of information, so it would be better. Well, the sentences were divided here. I also remember that they were divided into opinions in the then majority ruling in the Senate, i.e. in the Civic Platform; some senators were opposed to such solutions. And this, for the record, is worth recalling at this point. On the other hand, there's a question... In my previous term of office, I worked in the commission of communication with Poles abroad and I remember how carefully during many meetings of the committee all the conclusions that were discussed, sometimes very emotional, were considered. They argued and prepared material for the Senate Bureau, because it was the Senate Bureau, as we know, which has so far made the final decision on how to allocate these funds. They were multi-hour, repeated meetings of the committee. And if I remember correctly, more than twenty or twenty people at the Polonia Bureau worked on these requests from a substantive point of view, preparing all relevant documentation. Now what is it? Well, let's say that these funds go into government structures. But the question is whether there will be delays in the implementation of these proposals. And we know that many of the players who are applying for these measures are in constant motion, i.e. needs these measures systematically, permanently. I am thinking here, above all, of media initiatives, i.e. publishing, journalism, radio, the kind of projects that we supported. Isn't there going to be a delay in these measures? And these are questions that are worth answering when deciding on this law. I would also like to draw attention to what the Minister said by appealing to the High House to include some amendments, as I understand it, so that this law is even more perfect. It seems to me that there are two options here, and this will depend on the majority of the Senate: whether to vote in favour of the amendments, or whether to vote against the whole law? This is the dilemma that stands before the Senate majority, which is the opposition that has the majority in the Senate. I would appeal to the opposition to support those amendments that will rationalise this. And at the hand of the Minister... I know the decision would have to be worked out. However, if this were to be the case when the budget law was examined, when these measures were finally granted... The point is that there is a possibility to consider this issue, which I was just talking about, because then there would be an opportunity, in a consensus or almost in a consensus, to make good decisions, I think, for the benefit of all of us and, above all, for our fellow countrymen outside the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u263	Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u264	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer to what Senator Libicki was talking about, and also what Senator Jackowski was talking about. I would like it to sound on the other side of the political scene as well. Absolutely what Senator Jackowski said about this story about money for Polonia... I'm absolutely confirming that, and I'm not going to say it again, that's what happened. I can talk about it quite calmly, because I was in that part of the majority at the time who didn't vote for giving this money to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And completely over the divisions... I remember that when the majority at the beginning of the previous term decided to restore the Senate to power over money for Polonia, we all voted unanimously in favour of this, enjoying that this role of the Senate, as Senator Jackowski said, will be confirmed from the time of Marshal Piłsudski. And I really expect one of my colleagues in Law and Justice: to be able, in a changed political situation, to resist this very bad idea and to confirm that the Senate's strength is their value, its role, and not the ad hoc political games that make the government own the money, separate it from the ministries, which will most likely have a very questionable effect, and will certainly reduce the role of the Senate as such, understood entirely above divisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u265	Thank you, Senator. Senator Alicia the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u266	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Government representatives! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As I have worked for almost 9 years on the Foreign Affairs Committee, in the last and last term of office combined with the European Union committee, I cannot fail to speak. Most of the speakers in this room said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our offices were working badly, that there was a dramatic situation in foreign affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first term of office, we worked in a closed system, in private mode. There were diplomats, ambassadors, candidates for ambassadors who presented us with the situation of institutions in different parts of the world. This was a different situation, it can be assessed differently, but both from those diplomats who were trained in Moscow diplomacy schools and from those trained today, who speak many languages, we could learn the truth about their work at these institutions, also about how the Ministry worked in their evaluation. And it was not an objective opinion, it was the opinion of those people who worked for the interests of the country that they represented, i.e. the interests of Poland. Why did I sign up for this committee? Because it seemed to me, when I came to the Senate, that it was the rank of Poland in the world that was presented wrongly, not fully. This was told to me by my friends living abroad, by entrepreneurs who wanted to invest there, to open up, to build their businesses, including those who worked with foreign entities. I also remember this moment when we asked Minister Sikorski to report to us on what institutions in the world are getting money from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have to admit, I was embarrassed to go through this list, leaving it without comment, because what else could have been done. Recently, the money that went to Polonia, in my opinion, was spent properly, properly. Each application has been examined in several stages and I thought it would remain so. Perhaps the Prime Minister has decided that he wants to have a greater impact on where these measures go. I think that both Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and President Andrzej Duda are people who really care about the image of Poland and who do it properly. I want to thank all these diplomats, consuls, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with whom I have had the pleasure of working during this time, during these 9 years. Now I no longer work in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I figured it was time to invest. As it was said on the occasion of previous points, we do not invest enough And I am now working in the Committee on Investment, also in the Committee on the Environment. I believe that all members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union will work under the slogan that the welfare of our homeland, Poland, will be the primary command. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u267	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Bogdan Klich. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to comment? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u268	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I am only very briefly, not repeating all of this, which I have already talked about in the debate. Thanks to the cooperation with Minister Murdzk of the Ministry of Development, I would like to present a brief information concerning the departments of the Ministry of Development that have so far been subordinate to the Ministry of Development in the Representations of the Republic of Poland to international organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this is precisely 4 offices, 4 delegations: to the European Union in Brussels, to the United Nations Office and to international organisations in Vienna, to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris and to the United Nations Office in Geneva. These are 4 outposts, currently only 18 people are employed in them. That's the scale we're talking about. In my opinion, all the voices that have emerged here in defence of these institutions, these trade delegations, must take into account the small scale of this phenomenon, in the context of these institutions. As for the new issues that emerged in the debate, it must be said that many senators pointed to the alleged absurdity or inappropriateness of the solution adopted in this legislative process, i.e. the submission of a parliament. This is neither absurd nor inappropriate nor unprecedented. I repeat, the government takes full responsibility. It is not that this law was consulted only with the government, it was agreed, and the agreement means actually full, active cooperation during the drafting of the law. Of course, the bill was tabled by a group of Members. Such a mode is not unusual, such solutions in Parliament were submitted, were accepted, should not be surprised. Senator Jan Filip Libicki gave a reflection speech here, in which he was surprised that there are changes in politics, that changes are taking place in the position of prime minister, that the resorts are being eliminated, that new resorts are being created. Mr. Senator, I don't see you here. I would just like to remind you that you were once a member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and at this point you are no longer, and I don't think we both expect that this situation will ever change. So maybe this will help you... Understand... ...to understand the inevitability of political change. That's all, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u269	Thank you very much, Minister. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 38 and the report of the Commission In print No 38 A, 38 B. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have, I would like to say, pleasure, report on the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code Act. But I have to say at first that this pleasure is painful because it is very difficult matter. Even for an experienced lawyer, copyright attorney, intellectual property law... Well, these are things that we don't deal with every day. I will therefore be based here on the opinions submitted to the committees. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I was very pleased to note that the work on this amendment in the committee has been carried out in an exceptional atmosphere. Government representatives agreed with practically all the proposals for changes proposed by our Legislative Office and therefore these changes were adopted at least at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, our committee Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, All the amendments have been adopted unanimously, except for one that we have agreed we will not, as a majority, push it, in order to preserve this consensus. But, as far as I know, there was another discussion between our legislators and the government party at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, and this amendment also passed. The aim of the Act is to establish, within the framework of the judiciary, special organisational units dealing with intellectual property matters, i.e. matters relating to the protection of copyright and related rights, the protection of industrial property rights, the prevention and fight against unfair competition, the protection of personal property in so far as they concern the use of personal property in order to individualise advertising or promotion of the trader, goods or services, the protection of personal property in connection with scientific or invention activities and the protection of other rights on intangible property. And as a result of this initiative... And this has also been emphasized by very different environments, which very often have unconventional and sometimes even opposite interests. It was stressed that the separation of this specialised judiciary was an absolute step in the right direction. And it was accepted by all parties with a large, so to speak, contention. However, in the course of a later analysis... I have to say, because it's also pretty much written out during our committee's work. There have been a number of comments that I would like to stress here. On behalf of the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen, two previous Presidents of the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen addressed our committee with the following comments. According to the explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law, Industrial Property Law, which was announced in the Official Journal of the European Parliament and of the Council on 16 October 2019 after its adoption, indicates that a further amendment of the Act is due to the need to eliminate the errors identified by the environment related to the implementation of Directive 2004/48 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004. The Act on the revision of the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws currently under procedure is another attempt to implement the above-mentioned Directive. It is highly doubtful whether this is a successful attempt. For the first time in the history of the implementation of the above-mentioned directive, it is to be implemented in the Polish legal order by introducing the solutions provided for in the Directive into the content of the Code of Civil Procedure. Previously, the implementation of the directive was carried out by introducing the regulations provided for in the directive into the content of the various laws, consisting of a system of Polish intellectual property rights. It seems that the legislator should decide whether it intends to transfer all provisions relating to civil proceedings in intellectual property matters to a single act, i.e. to a code of civil procedure, or to maintain the existing model of regulation, which provides for the existence of procedural rules in the various laws standardising intellectual property matters. Unfortunately, the bill does not make a clear choice. Indeed, it is true that some amendments to the Civil Procedure Code are made and some provisions remain in other acts. The Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications, PIKE, also presented its quite critical position. This Chamber asks the Senate not to adopt the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws without amendment, i.e. in the form presented by the Sejm, for amendments to be tabled by users of rights and for the reassignment of the Law to the Sejm. The Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications has presented a number of proposals for amendments. Also quite critical of certain solutions... I stress that all these parties, despite the criticisms, are very positive about the most important solution, i.e. to introduce these specialised courts. ZAiKS, the Association of Authors of ZAiKS also raised some very serious doubts. As we can read in the position of ZAiKS, the proposed amendment introduces detailed procedural arrangements for the investigation of intellectual property rights, following the harmonisation of procedural and pre-trial measures. However, the price of this harmonisation has become a significant reduction in the level of protection of copyright. The Act provides for uniform rules for calling for information necessary for effective redress for copyright, industrial property rights and unfair competition proceedings, with the scope of information which may be requested by a procedure similar to a safeguard procedure, as set out in Article. 479113 and 479115 of the Civil Procedure Code. These provisions are not adapted to the specific characteristics of copyrights. I will not go into the details of the proposed changes or these analyses. As I said at the beginning, this is a very difficult, complicated matter, requiring very serious expertise. Copyright and related rights are a very specific section of civil law and it takes a really long time to be able to handle this matter responsibly. I merely quoted some comments from experts who deal with these issues in particular fields. Just like I asked during the committee meeting... Thank you very much for meeting and talking with these experts, and I would very much like the government side to comment on these comments in a moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u271	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees have examined these draft amendments to the Civil Procedure Code separately, but this does not mean that our positions are divergent. I could repeat many of the sentences that Mr Pociej said, as is the recommendation of the Legislative Commission adopted at its meeting on 30 January this year. We recommend that the bill be adopted along with the amendments. The amendments are technical and have been approved by the government. I don't want to develop the reporting part. Indeed, the core of this amendment is the establishment of the social partners, economic organisations, creators of a specialised judiciary in the intellectual property sector, namely 4 special courts at the level of district courts and 2 special units at the level of appeals, and adapting the rules relating to the procedure to the new challenges, namely procedural measures relating to the protection of intellectual property. They are placed in a special unit, in the editorial section of the Civil Procedure Code. I can also subscribe to what President Alexander Pociej said, emphasising the coherence of legislation. We have behaved very responsibly because redesigning this amendment would mean a risk of breach of cohesion. But I also want to say that these short jobs, because in the Senate it is impossible to work long, show the sources of perturbation and the sources of crisis in such cases. The amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and any Codes should be carried out as transparently as possible and preferably by specialised bodies such as codification committees. Transparently not only for social partners and economic organisations, in this case collective rights management organisations, but also for the public, for all interested. Then the risk of error is reduced, including the error which is clear here, because there would be no basis for drafting amendments to be approved by the government if this project came out of the government without errors. I, too, would like the government to answer the questions asked by President Alexander Pociej. During the work in the presence of the Minister, we discussed the amendment tabled by the Foundation thinking about the future, concerning the equipment of Polish entrepreneurs with a full instrument of protection of rights in the face of violations of the principles of fair competition. The Minister said that this is a positive amendment, but it goes beyond the scope of the amendment and will be taken by the government in new legislative work. We would like to know what the term of these works is and what the formula of these works will be. We call for this formula to be adopted on such complex and so sensitive issues, which has been working for years, i.e. work based on a codification committee and a maximum transparent formula. Then we would be absolutely sure that we are all doing a good job. Nevertheless, as the basic intention of the bill is positive, it was approved during the consultation meeting... We also have a clear answer that, despite reservations, all the social partners, all the participants in this process see the need to establish specialised units within the general court dealing with intellectual property. The Legislative Commission recommends the adoption of a law together with editorial amendments which have been approved by the Government Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Anna Dalkowska. Minister, would you like to speak? You're welcome, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law on the Amendment of the Law The growing number of intellectual property cases per year, their importance for economic development, and the legal complexity of these cases, justify entrusting the cases concerned to specialised bodies in common courts. The main changes in the law are, first, the creation in the general court of the selected 4 district courts and 2 appeals courts of specialized separate organisational units, i.e. the departments of those courts, which would deal with copyright and related rights, industrial property and related issues concerning unfair competition. Under the existing judicial structure, the law thus allows judges to specialise in intellectual property. Secondly, the Act introduces harmonised rules of conduct in intellectual property matters. In addition to the introduction of rules that create specific specialised entities, it also amends the provisions of the civil procedure, as expressed in the institutions in the form of safeguards for evidence, disclosure or disclosure of evidence and a call for information. The procedural provisions, together with the provisions standardising the cognition of intellectual property courts, form the core of this law. Thirdly, the obligation of a professional proxy to represent the parties is introduced in intellectual property cases. This is a compulsion that is not an exclusive compulsion. Exceptions are provided for under such a rule, except in cases relating to a certain value of the subject matter of the dispute, the limit amount is PLN 20,000 and those cases in which the court exempted the party from the obligation to force a professional power of attorney. The solution introduced will help to increase the speed of proceedings and will also contribute to better concentration of evidence. In view of the complex nature of these matters, which require expertise, it seems that the introduction of such coercion is justified by all means. Fourthly, the IPR provides for 2 specific types of actions. First, a counterclaim, secondly, an action to establish that certain acts do not infringe a particular patent, additional protection right, protection right or registration right. With regard to mutual redress arrangements, the law shall be modelled on the European Union law relating to the EU trade ban. As regards information on the progress of the legislative work in the Sejm, I would like to say that the Sejm passed a law at its third meeting on 9 January 2020. 273 Members voted in favour of the bill, 3 against, 163 abstentions. In the Senate, the law was recognised by the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions and by the Legislative Commission. An additional meeting was also held on 5 February 2020 with representatives of the social side. I would like to thank you very much for organising this meeting between the two committees. I would also like to thank the Government for its in-depth discussion on this law. I remain convinced that, in view of the wide-ranging fragmentation of intellectual property matters and their specificities, the solutions proposed in the Act will contribute to the concentration and profile of these cases in specialised bodies in common courts and will create the right conditions to shape the relevant line of case law in this difficult area. I therefore ask the High House to support this law. The government hopes that it will be dealt with quickly and effectively in the House. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Aleksander Pociej asked questions. You're welcome, Senator. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u276	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. However, Minister, I would ask for answers to these few questions that I have asked, to the doubts that have been raised both in front of copyright specialists and by other participants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u277	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, referring to the issues raised here and the comments made, first of all, I would like to say that as regards the implementation of the Directive and the way in which this Act is being implemented, the law at the design stage has been passed by the Committee on European Affairs and the legislative process and the implementation of the Directive without any comments. As regards the other comments concerning Article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Point 2 presented here by social organisations, I would like to point out that the proposed legislation is intended to regulate the way in which intellectual property is proceded and matter in a general way. So the legislator's intention was to create certain rules of procedure and certain institutions of a general nature. This does not, of course, preclude the existence of specific provisions, which are contained in the legal acts indicated by those who submitted comments. With regard to the comments raised by the social side that the regulation on information claim makes the situation of copyright and related rights worse in the context of the Article I have indicated. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Point 1 (2) of the Act should indicate that the proposed solution is compatible with Directive 2004/41, which Article. 8 presents a catalogue of information to be made available under the so-called information claims. And here, without getting into the details, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the regulation of the Directive on information which is made available is minimal and that national legislation may provide for a wider scope of this information. Consequently, the provisions contained in the Act are of a nature Once again, I would like to stress this. In general and in no way exclude those specific arrangements referred to in the comments made by the social side. It therefore appears that these comments at this stage should not lead to any modification of the proposed law. About the other issues... As regards the comments made by the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this entity represents the other party, i.e. not copyright holders, but users of these rights. The Act already adopted provides for a balance between these two groups of entities. In accordance with EU law and the implementing directive, the interests of both one and the other group of actors should be considered in order to maintain a balance, and it seems that the law does so. So here too, I believe that these comments should not be considered as any problem in the legislative process. Now the comments made by the National Chamber of Legal Counsels and comments concerning the possible coercion of a professional agent, because they were reported. In the view of the Government, they cannot affect the law because the value of the subject matter of the dispute is reduced to 20 000, as well as this gateway, in the form of a possibility of exemption from the compulsory power of attorney, renders the law to the court which is included in the article. 45 constitutions. It seems that they should not influence the procession either. One more question concerning the latter amendment to the Act on Combating Unfair Competition. This amendment was tabled at the committee meeting. I would like to inform the High House that the project is indeed already prepared, at the moment it is at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements. We take into account the implementation of consumer protection judgments; we are talking about the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So that work in this area will continue, but no longer at the stage of the legislative process concerning this law. I think I may have made all my points at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u279	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, an additional question... I'm quitting. You're quitting. The question is asked by Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u280	I have two questions. I would like to ask the Minister what is the work schedule and when will be consulted on this very last issue that you have raised, i.e. on a project that will address the issue of combating unfair competition. What is basically a work calendar? And when might there be a consultation? This was asked by the social partners involved in the consultation process in the Senate. And then there's the second point, more fundamental. Will the Minister be so good as to tell us a few words about how quickly these units will be constituted, i.e. specialized units in general court dealing with intellectual property? When are we gonna deal with forming these units? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As regards the first point, I would like to inform the High House that it will only be possible to define a work calendar once it has been included in the list of legislative work. At the moment, after inter-ministerial arrangements, the project must be included in the list of legislative work. And that's the conclusion that's been going on lately, and I even signed it myself. So that in the near future, when this more detailed calendar is known... I can commit myself to informing the senator or the High House about the details of the further proceeding of this amendment. As regards the second question, the Act assumes that the date of entry into force, i.e. the formation of these specialised entities, is 1 July 2020. And until then, let us hope, both in terms of government, organizational and procedural terms, that this will be possible for the cast of specialised judges. The Act establishes 4 courts at first instance, district courts and 2 courts at second instance. These will be appeals courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. There's still a question. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, at the middle stage of its work, adds provisions on the withdrawal at the time of the entry into force of the provisions relating to a simple public limited liability company. What are the actual reasons why these provisions are postponed by one year?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u286	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards these additional issues, which are contained in the Act, I would like to say that they are the result of a shift during the time of the provisions on the introduction of electronic registration proceedings, a shift in their date of entry into force, originally planned for 1 March 2020, by one year, i.e. 1 March 2021. These are the resulting changes resulting from the shift in the entry into force of the rules on electronic registration. They concern traders, including a simple commercial company, therefore there is a need to modify certain provisions of the Commercial Code and of the Commercial Company in connection with the delay in the entry into force of the registration procedure. This is the motivation and justification for introducing these amendments in the Act. If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u287	Thank you very much, Minister. And an additional question, senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u288	So the reason for this is to shift the electronic registration process? Yes. And what is the reason for the electronic registration process being moved?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u289	I'll tell you what. In response to this question, Mr Marshal and High Izbo, I kindly inform you that the delay in the date of entry into force of the process of electronicisation of registration proceedings results from the need to guarantee the proper functioning of this registration process. Based on the experience of... It was... ...the electronic process on the financial statements on the initiative of the European Parliament has been proposed to delay this electronicisation of the register procedure for one more year, in order to take advantage of the experience of the financial statements and on the basis of these experiences, to introduce these instruments so that they do not cause chaos in the context of judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u290	Thank you very much, Minister. If there are no further questions... Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. For the time being, one senator has signed up for the discussion. This is Senator Alexander Pociej. You're welcome, Senator, to speak. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll try to fit in in less time. Once again, I would like to reiterate that indeed all the social partners accept this separation of specialised courts very positively. And actually also for judges who had only occasionally struggled with this very For the time being, I emphasize some very complicated matter, it will certainly be a great ease. And I'm very curious about who this shift is going to be. If I know life, the judges who will have to go there will probably not be thrilled, except for a few. But I understand they're definitely gonna turn up. That's life. I would also like to refer to what Senator Ujazdowski was talking about, i.e. to encourage the government to return to good practice, so that it is the codification committee that deals with this kind of complex matter. Because I feel like we're gonna be talking about this in this term of office again. I'm afraid that's because I see a few problems here that I'm not sure are best solved. This will, of course, come out in practice. However, I would like to remind you that there have been consultations, because it is a government project, but these consultations were in the previous term. From the information I have, there was no such consultation during this term. This is a project that was adopted from the previous term of office. And, despite the opinion of the Minister, I would encourage you to listen to the voice of people who express concerns about copyright. After many discussions, I share these concerns and will therefore make 2 amendments. Amendment 1 adds in the new Article. 479115 §1 additional point 3 and concerns Article. 1 novel by which this law is amended. The proposed point will allow, in my view, intellectual property courts to define an information obligation which will be more adapted to the nature of the protection provided for in the Copyright and Related Rights Act and in the Collective Management of Copyrights and Related Rights Act. It seems that the current formula, according to which the court imposes an obligation to provide information on a particular entity, is rather adapted to the protection guaranteed by the provisions relating to the protection of industrial property, which has been repeatedly raised by many specialists. Therefore, there could be doubts as to whether the court can formulate a provision so that it can actually serve the creators and representatives of their collecting societies in the process of exercising their rights. The second amendment aims to remove the paragraph. Article 3 80 Copyright and Related Rights Act. This provision requires the appropriate application of the provision on separate proceedings in intellectual property matters to claims for information made during the exercise of the power conferred by substantive law, e.g. to claim the necessary information to determine the remuneration due to the creator of the work or his successor for resale of the original copy or manuscript of the work. The formula for appropriate use raised concerns about creative environments and the creators of collecting societies for the management of copyrights or related rights. The social side argued that the provision contained in the article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3 may hinder the recovery of legitimate claims and additionally expose the costs of rightholders against persons who do not perform a statutory obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I therefore close the discussion. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I will ask whether a representative of the government wishes to take the floor and respond to these proposals. Minister? You're welcome. Is that a position you're in? Honestly, I think it's possible to change... You can, you can. Yes, you can. I'm sorry, but I'm new here. Thank you very much... I think I've already turned on the microphone, Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u293	Thank you very much. As regards the first amendment, it is difficult to refer to it because we do not know the content of this proposed §3. As for Amendment 2, this matter was discussed at the committee stage. We are willing to accept this kind of amendment. So that at this stage it can be said that it is a proposed deletion in the article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3 could be accepted and accepted by the government party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u294	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 39 and the report of the Commission In print No 39 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The two committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have examined the law being a government project. This law deals with several planes, actually amends several laws, among others. the Railway Fund Act, the Rail Transport Act, the Public Collective Transport Act, the Commercialisation and Restructuring Act of the State Enterprise, the Polish State Railways, as well as the Local Government Act. First of all, the law aims to stop the degradation of railway infrastructure, including railway lines, on which the decision to liquidate has already been made, to regulate rail connections at the borders of voivodships, because, as we know, this problem is still there, as well as to introduce changes proposed by railway market participants to remove barriers and problems that hinder the efficient implementation of railway investments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 The issue of tram lines has also been addressed, which is very important in the implementation of tram investments. A new definition of the freight terminal, passenger stations has also been defined. The catalogue of documents to be submitted in determining the location of the railway lines has been clarified. The Rail Transport Act regulates the maintenance of road infrastructure if it is implemented close to railway investments. This case has also been settled. This is about rail safety, a catalog of competitions that are related to safety. The principles of the calculation of charges for access to infrastructure facilities have been clarified. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 36j of the Rail Transport Act was clarified by the provision of passenger stations to railway operators, because as we know, not only Polish carriers can use them, but also others, also local authorities, and this is about the provision of the station, the purchase of a ticket, etc. And in the article. 38ab's most important to me The uncontrolled winding-up of railway lines has been eliminated. This is a very important article, because, as we know, the shutting down of railway lines is still happening, even recently... Well, Braniewo Olsztyn, earlier in Podkarpacie... And this is where this issue is supposed to be settled. Minister, we need regulations here. To mentally... to change railroad thinking, we need quick regulations in all the areas that are here. They need to be clear, specific. At the committee meeting we also talked about a small administrator. This is very important, because here we are going in the direction of handing over some of the assets of the railways to the local governments. But it must also be financed out of something, and that's why we talked at the committee meeting about this little administrator. These measures will be needed anyway for this revitalization, and then for all of this. The Commission has discussed this, but of course, the more you get into these problems, the more you see these problems. new aspects, and that is why some issues may still be discussed in further discussions. Thank you very much. So much for the first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u296	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Infrastructure, represented by Mr Andrzej Bittel, Secretary of State during the Senate debate, was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Lamczyk very much for his thorough presentation of the proceedings and the scope of the bill. I'd like to add a few words from myself. It is indeed a very important law that allows us to act actively in the field of restoring and continuing to raise the level of the rail sector in such a way that it serves passengers as best as possible, but also to shippers, to all of us who use rail transport services, transport, which is the most safe and environmentally friendly means of transport from among those that are now available. For my part, I would like to draw attention to issues related to the improvement of investment processes, because we are extending here... It's about the so-called rules. a railway chapter in which there are regulations allowing such a more pragmatic investment process, but also simplifications related to the provision of financing for the implementation of these investments, or the possibility of payment of an advance of 70% to property owners compensation for restricting the use of immovable property covered by the decision to determine the location of the railway line. A really important issue is clarification, clarification of the rules on the decommissioning of railway lines. The uncontrolled process of winding up railway lines caused us to lack 7 000 railway lines compared to 1990. We want to play these lines, we want to modernise them, but we also want to counter the destruction of railway lines. Not in the sense of a rail connection, because it can sometimes stop, even for the sake of modernization, but in the sense of infrastructure that should be maintained. First of all, a corridor should be maintained in which such decommissioned infrastructure can be recreated if the situation so requires. It will be possible to do so under the government's "Rail Plus" programme. Once these regulations have been adopted together with local authorities, we will proceed to play railway lines and to increase the parameters of those which, in cooperation with the local government, are, as we know, regional transport organisers, so that this transport system becomes even more coherent. This consistency is also served by the provisions concerning the increase of the distance at which the marshal may order without agreement with his neighbour to serve the village, up to 30 km from the border. Now this is the nearest station where you can turn the train. It's not always the so-called ones. The contact links were of a nature serving passengers, because it is known that from the capital of the voivodship to the border is a long distance, and abroad it is no longer looking. And sometimes it would be easier and better to arrange transport for the benefit of passengers so as to go a little further and thus serve some local important place. Mr. Senator mentioned tram transport. He will also benefit from special provisions when implementing those investments that are outside the road lane. There are very important issues here, i.e. certain clarifications related to the implementation of European legislation, whether it is a directive or a judgment of the Court of Justice, and a question related to the protection of business secrecy in proceedings conducted by the Railway Transport Office. This is a very important issue from the point of view of the interests of carriers. Finally, it is worth mentioning the deletion of the article. 17a paragraph. 3 of the Act. Provisions introducing the law on local government and local staff, which will remove the obligation to initiate municipal proceedings from the voivodships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u298	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal... I forgot my cards. Cards, cards. He hasn't taken the card since this morning. He's right. There were no votes. Young, inexperienced. I'm asking you to stop making malicious remarks to the senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please don't worry about the malice of your colleagues, just ask a question, because it is human to err, and everyone can forget the card. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u299	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your understanding. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister about the National Railway Program. It is known that the material plan is being shaken. Could the Minister specify the percentage in which these changes will be carried out? We know that the financial plan will be implemented, but we know that the prices have gone up and... What percentage will it be made of?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u300	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u301	Thank you for that question. This is a question outside the scope of this bill... But... ...but I would like to say that the in-kind plan will be implemented at a higher percentage than adopted in the NCP in the year... But... No, no, it's material. ... In 2015, because in the case of many investments we have raised parameters and increased scopes in kind. This is one of the reasons why we also increase the National Railway Program. A good example is port investments, which do not provide many port handling elements, and we are doing so. A good example is Rail Baltica. Bialystok station was supposed to stay on relay devices from the 1950s, but we're gonna be introducing computer traffic control there. So that I wouldn't worry about the scope. It's about the financials, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u302	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u303	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you talk a lot about activity, about pragmatics, about new connections, about facilitations for local governments. I would like to ask why you insist so much on leaving the record, connected with this cooperation between local authorities, concerning the distance between the borders of no more than 30 km, and this cannot be, for example. distance to the first node, which is in the second voivodship. It's not like in all cases we'll find a knot within 30 km.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u305	Thank you so much for that question. First of all, it must be said that no one forbids the marshals of the voivodships to communicate on the basis of reciprocity and to arrive, if they consider it right, at any point in the given voivodship. Because we've identified the problem of a whole list of places that can't be handled as part of a certain logic, which is the passenger exchange logic, because the marshal is only going to a station where he can turn the vehicle around and return to his voivodeship, we thought we needed to introduce an additional limit, which is bigger than the first one. And that limit is 30 kilometers. Of course, we will observe the situation, the change that will take place here, but we also do not want, as a government, to enter into the competence of the marshal, who is the organizer of collective transport in his territory and in relation to his neighbour. That's the logic, that's the way you think. During the seym work, various ideas appeared, and to the junction, and 50 km. If it were 50 km, it would be possible to move freely, for example. between Opole and Wrocław, without agreement with the next marshal. There are some elements of competition here, too. And that's just a limit on the distance that applies when there's no agreement between neighbors. If the Marshal of Mazowiecki is in agreement with the Marshal of Podlaskie, they will determine it, if not, then the Marshal of Mazowiecki can go 30 km deep... Into the woods? No, to a specific place. If he goes to the woods, he won't come back. He must have a station where he can safely turn his vehicle around. Of course, but... That's what he has to do. Those are the rules in case there's no agreement. Well, the marshals should be communicating.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u306	Thank you very much, Minister. As I can see, no further questions. I therefore open the discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz has come forward for the discussion. I ask the senator to speak. The time limit in the discussion is, as usual, 10 minutes. I'll only have three minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I propose an amendment to the provisions contained in this printing. Namely, the amendment boils down to the deletion of the article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. These articles have already been mentioned here. Art. 3 concerns provisions implementing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. Namely in this article. 3. Paragraph 3 is proposed to be deleted. Article 3 17a, which speaks about the communalization of real estate by the local government, by the municipalities. This is the Rail Transport Act, whose amendment we are considering, and this article, which I propose to delete, refers to all municipal property, not only to railway property, but to all property. I know the arguments that say that there will be a possibility of communalisation upon request and that cases initiated before the entry into force of this amendment will be dealt with according to the old legal situation. However, this puts local governments at a very disadvantage because it will already be a discretionary decision of the voivodeship. In addition, it will introduce a whole range of unestimated problems, in my opinion. I was talking about some of them at the committee meeting. This may apply, for example, to real estate records and related consequences. I just want to point out two more things. Maintaining transport corridors is a very important issue. Even if there are no tracks in these corridors at the moment, the same possession of the corridor in the future can be extremely valuable. So that there are many provisions in this amendment that deserve support. But one thing is missing. It was not possible for the committee to propose an amendment within the framework of its work, because it went beyond the scope of the matter which the committee and the High Senate can deal with. It's about the rights of the metropolitan union. One such relationship exists, and today the Senate has examined the bill on the next metropolitan union. This relationship, which exists in Górnośląsko-Zęgłębiowska Metropolis, has already developed the concept of metropolitan railway, has begun to cooperate with PLK and intends to spend up to several billion zlotys on the development of this railroad on its territory, and at the same time cannot be treated as the organizer of this transport. Therefore, I am announcing that the legislative initiative, which would enable the metropolitan union to have the powers that municipalities, powiats or voivodships have, will be the subject of the work of the local government committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As a rule, in the latter case, which will not be an amendment, because for obvious reasons it cannot, I would suggest a deep reflection on the location in the law system of such records. In my view, placing them in the Rail Transport Act does not necessarily have to be the happiest. I have that opinion... Maybe that's the kind of record that should be in the Metropolitan Act. It's a remark about a bill, a project that was being processed today. In my opinion, the rules that are currently in place allow the transfer of funds to the metropolitan union... transfer to the beneficiary, the PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe, within the framework of the budgetary economy. But this, I think, will still be well thought out in the framework of this legislative initiative. In the context of the Article. 17a paragraph. 3 provisions implementing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act... Art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 was introduced in 2005, 15 years after the law entered into force. Today is the 30th year since the communalization was supposed to take place, and according to the original assumptions within a year of the entry into force of the law... The main thing that is at my heart is the communalization of railway areas. You must know that 90% railway areas, which in 1990, i.e. at the time adopted by the Supreme Administrative Court in the judicial line as the time when the railway areas were brought together by law... They had an unregulated legal status in the sense that there was no decision on the board required by the law at that time. This is why the court now finds that they have become communal, contrary to what the Senate has in its documents. And that can be quoted because we pulled such materials from the Sejm Library. I could even read now, but it would take too much time for you. This also implies that from the very beginning... the process of communalization of areas that should never be comunalized should be at least on request and not necessarily initiated by the public. For this reason, I would recommend rejecting this amendment, i.e. deleting the article. 3 and 14. Because it also kind of leads to the fact that the rail system is no longer common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u310	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the 10th to 13th points have already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 55 and the report of the Commission In print No 55 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last Thursday was the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, where the amendment of the Construction Law and some other laws was discussed. I'll give it to you very briefly. As requested by Senator Jan Hamerski, I will make amendments to this bill today. But the bill, in general I will say It will probably come out in the debate, or at least it came out at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. She's not very well prepared. There were many comments to her, among others. That's the kind of comment I've been making. There was one amendment by the president, which was supported by the entire committee, concerning matters related to the Polish Union of Działkowicz and buildings built on plots. The Ministry seems to have expressed a positive opinion on this amendment. Let me introduce you to... Because I'm reporting a dozen amendments to the distribution of documents to the permit... the construction decision. The state in your bill divides the project into 3 parts. I believe that this solution is wrong and harmful to citizens. It seems that the purpose of this procedure is only so that Prime Minister Morawiecki can boast that he has obtained a building decision for his living +. No apartment will be built later, because the lack of technical design will block the execution of these things. I therefore propose to delete the entire article. 34 of your proposal. I also believe that the preparation of the construction project in digital form, in the form of... Excuse me, sir, but you are presenting a report to the committee. Yes, but I also talked about these amendments at the committee meeting. That, and Mr President, and the Minister, are able to testify. Okay, well, if you're a marshal... It is simply that, Mr Senator, because you have adopted such a form of expression, it seems as if you are presenting your own amendments. And now this isn't the place. Now there's room for the committee's report. That's all I'm saying. Good. In that case, briefly, with one amendment tabled at the committee meeting by your chairman, the bill was adopted. So much for this case. But, as I understand it, in the speeches I will be able to submit... Absolutely, Mr. Senator. The place for the senators to submit amendments is the debate. Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u312	Thank you very much to the committee representative. Are there any questions for the rapporteurs from the ladies and senators? There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Undersecretary of State with us, Mr. Robert Nowicki. I understand you're expressing that desire. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u313	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The law we're introducing is a law that regulates an extremely important aspect of reality. It's a matter of construction law. The basic objectives pursued by this law are primarily deregulation and acceleration of the investment process, which was built. I would like to point out that the division of the construction project mentioned by Senator Dunin is linked to the votes of investors on the division of the project. And I would like to make it clear, Mr. Senator, that the technical project will be, only this is a matter of flexibility and the place where it appears. We're not taking him out. The implementation of strategic government programmes is also one of the elements by which we want to accelerate the scope of investment in the new construction law. I mean, just a little retention. Clearly in the article. 29 and Article 29 30 we organize and specify regulations that require notification... works that require notification or permission to build, or do not require any movement from the investor in terms of formalities. So far, these rules have often functioned on the basis of references, investors have been lost in the thicket of these rules and often there has been a situation that the investor has received unnecessary documentation from the authorities, so the investment process has been prolonged. Strengthening the defence objectives for the dislocation of existing military units or newly created units is also one of the elements of this law. The elimination of barriers to the development of the digital society is the elimination of absurdities such as the construction log, the construction manager for each deposit, for each ticket. We're eliminating this with the novel we're talking about here. Reinforcing the safety of buildings under self-sustaining conditions. Here we have legalization and simplification after 20 years of self-reliantness. I ask you, since in a given municipality, in a given municipality, i.e. in a place where planning power is created, often after 20 years in the planning of local development and as part of the design of these plans, the self-wills were not identified and have not been kept in stock, and the municipalities have tolerated it, sometimes even collecting fees and various tributes for the use of these properties, we have to go to the citizens, especially those who live in these self-governments, in order to strengthen their level of security, to include these facilities in the supervisory system, but also to the local residents. I would also like to make it clear what has already aroused controversy at an earlier stage of the work. It is a matter of self-building and the possibility of reopening proceedings with regard to those who have received decisions on the demolition order. We don't want to. And that's what I want to make clear. Resume proceedings. Here, this possibility is eliminated. As far as the rule of law is concerned, this is it. the question of the certainty and confidence of citizens in the law. Hence the provisions proposed in the new regulation by 5 years, after which the decision on the construction permit or the authorisation for use cannot be touched. Investment needs to be connected as well. In the novel, we cancel the current practice of charging by network gestors or due to the expired period of issue of technical conditions. We set clear criteria as to the time in which the gestor of the network must fit, and the penalty for delay, the daily penalty, as specified in the regulations. As for the escape room, the arcade, I would like to remind you of last year's tragedy in Koszalin, where the object for other purposes was re-qualified for gaming purposes. I think that the rules currently in place will strengthen this security. Every time you change the way you use a building or object, you will need a fire expert. As to whether the law introduces too strict procedures, I would like to say that in addition to the above-mentioned division of the construction project into the project of land or land development, architectural and construction project and technical design... Well, the second thing is to sort out the rules. It's also about the safe use of objects, consistent with destiny. Thank you, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u314	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? You're welcome, Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A short question, perhaps naive. Well, in connection with the division of documentation into these three successive parts, I have the following question. If we're going to build something, then where we're building it, there's usually a water supply, sewerage, gas, etc. Is there an obligation in this law to use the connection to these existing networks and, if so, at which stage should this be guaranteed? Because there are often cases where newly created objects from connection to existing networks do not use for various reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! The stage will join... It is, there is an obligation to use the connections, if they occur by public means, on the way adjacent to the property. First of all, the effect is to be unambiguous. If we use connectors, they eliminate certain risks, so to speak, from their own sources. Whether it's waterworks or heat ones. In the real estate area. The technical conditions at the time of obtaining the building permit should be issued by the network gestors. This is why we introduce these terms and conditions, but also the existence of conditions, so that the investor can feel safe as to the validity of these terms and conditions. Then the investor is aware that he has the opportunity to use those networks that are in real estate. Does he have an opportunity or a duty? He has a duty if they exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u318	Thank you very much. But he should... Duty. If you'll excuse me, please come forward to ask questions and ask them in the form in which we should ask them. I have no doubt that is exactly what Senator Władysław Komarnicki will do, who has entered the list of senators asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u319	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for your kind words. I'm about to meet your Marshal's expectations. Minister, who's gonna judge if this self-confidence is 20 years old? That's my first question. My second question: will the construction will also be able to report the users of eternity? Third question: will construction engineers be able to carry out land and land development projects and architectural and construction projects? Thank you... My fourth... Oh, I'm sorry. My fourth question: how will the safety of hazardous objects be guaranteed, e.g. such as refineries or chemical plants, if the provisions relating to the obligation to deliver the opinions of the relevant institutions, of course designated by the Minister, are deleted? And my last question is: will the construction will also be legalized on polders? This is a very important question. I would like to say, Minister, that I worked in construction for 54 years, managed large construction companies that I created. You're introducing a revolution, so I'm gonna let myself speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u320	Thank you very much, Senator. Please respond by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u321	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As far as point one and your question are concerned, this is a matter clearly defined by the Code of Administrative Procedure and the authorities that will carry it out will assess it. Of course, the duty of proof lies with the one making the demands. As far as point two is concerned, I will answer briefly here: yes. Point three. Yes, engineers will also be able to carry out any projects. We are not here on the issue of industry, the power of design. I am very glad that this question was asked because the same questions were already in the Seym. And we maintain this position that we do not enter into the power of industry specialties. We even point out in the regulations that at the stage of creating an architectural and construction project there must be proper coordination of industry. We most certainly... A projectant means either an architect or an engineer. As far as the fourth question is concerned, it concerns, as I understand it, exemptions from the obligation to present opinions. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I would like to say that, above all, these have been exceptional situations so far. This was just an opinion so far, which was not a binding opinion. I would like to mention that in addition to this opinion, which was once again stressed There are specific provisions that regulate the emergence of difficult investments which are particularly vulnerable to potential environmental risks. So safe investments based on other laws guarantee security. And question five, about the polders. Well, there's a water law issue, because water law clearly regulates when these objects can arise at all. So we don't see a collision with water law here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u322	Thank you very much, Minister. Let me inform you that I'm opening a discussion right now. Senator Arthur Dunin was the first to join the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you didn't answer Senator Rotnicka's question. No one will be able to verify this unless a technical project is submitted together with a building permit. Minister, I don't think you've ever filed such documents. Mrs. Senator, if the local government builds a waterworks, arm the area, the investor won't have to, because no one will control it. This is, among other things. This. In fact, the liquidation and separation of the technical project into 3 parts, ladies and gentlemen, will lead to the liquidation of the Chamber of Engineers. This is the first step in the liquidation of the engineering chamber. Mr. Engineers! Mr. Engineer! This is where it smells like they're taking out our E.R. Today, thanks to this project, as I said at the committee meeting, the architect is actually becoming a single-member ruler, master, with great respect for architects, their work, their contribution to the investments which we, as Poles, each of us individually, undertake to build our own house, the plant. Yes, architects are very much needed. But without engineers, without a technical base, a technical operation, the investment won't go. No investment will arise without the joint operation of all the entities that create the investment. BIM was created for this purpose and operates in England so that at every stage all these groups would cooperate and cooperate. That's the way it's supposed to be with us. A lot of things are done like this. Hence, Mr. Marshal, I will make amendments that I will pass on, among others. to delete the amendment of Article. 34. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not all. Yeah, there's positive things about this project, too. And I have to give it here, actually, the good thing is these five years, a very important thing is a little retention. Yeah, these are good changes. I do not understand the change concerning the reduction of up to 3 paper projects. I don't get it, because really, the investor's gonna have to moonlight anyway. I therefore propose an amendment to make the whole project available digitally, even optionally for the time being, but to make it available digitally. I think with today's technical capabilities, there's no problem for any investor to... Also, the office will not burden its rooms with paper ceilings, in fact with paper waste paper. It could be digitally recorded. And one more thing I want to say, because it seems to be an important thing: building self-will. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting, some parliamentarians smiled, as I said, that there are self-wills that are lawful and illegal. I'm talking about... Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, construction wills can be in accordance with the local plan or the decision on the construction conditions. And there are builders who haven't gotten that kind of approval. That's why, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo, I'm making an amendment. My first intention was to delete it at all. Why should some be losers? Some had considerable costs in preparing construction projects and adapted to the law, and others really avoided it. Why should some be harmed? But actually, when I thought about it a little longer, I decided to make an amendment so that construction will be allowed, which is in accordance with the law, which is in accordance with the local plan or the decision on construction conditions, while fulfilling the condition that 20 years, at least 20 years, and which is in line with the decision on housing conditions or the local plan... I believe that we can allow for easier permission to build in such a situation. I'm gonna pass on these corrections right now. You asked me Senator Władysław Komarnicki to submit, to hand over to the Marshal, his amendments, amendments to this unfortunate article. The 34, you're changing. Mr. Senator is sort of going against your solutions. He's more understanding than I am. It mitigates the consequences, which unfortunately can be disastrous for Polish citizens, because your solution can be disastrous in effect. So, Mr. Senator, he's soothing your shift. Then I'll hand them over to your marshal. And so that you no longer take your time, because we will still meet, I think, and talk at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure, Mr Marshal, I pass on all these amendments. Unification, please inform me. Tell me, Minister, when you're correcting this bill, because it's another bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u324	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki also joined the floor. I ask the senator to speak. Mr. Marshal, please. Here. Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u325	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Like I said, I worked in construction for 54 years. In construction I walked from the foreman, passed all the rungs and for 15 years I was president of a large company. During this period, I had many conversations with engineering staff, many conversations with architects. Polish engineers and architects are the pride and salt of our country. This beautiful country has been modernised for the last 30 years and has stunned those coming to us who see what has been done for 30 years. I was the initiator of the National Chamber of Construction in 1990. For 18 years, I've been in the authorities of this chamber. My engineers were the first to move to the western markets and there they made very complex investments, requiring a lot of experience, including Munich Airport. So I can say today that we have phenomenal polytechnics that release great graduates. But somehow we never get along with building laws. Never. The state often eats examples from Europe, you say, if you don't like it, the French are something, Germany is... And I'd like you to take the VOB, the German building law, to sit on it seriously sometime, talk to experienced construction people, and make it a real law. There is a VOB law that has been in force for years and there are only minor amendments to it, and we always, let's say, from wall to wall. There's been a curse hanging over us for years. This is spoken to you by a man of a dignified age who has been through a lot in his life. And like I said, at the very beginning, I started at the construction site with a basic position. I'd like to say... I have the impression that today's bill on the amendment of the building law is once again an underdeveloped law. I don't know why it was written in a hurry. After all, these are regulations concerning important matter, such as building law, involving great investments. Colloquially speaking, it's the engine of our economy. That's what I said in the beginning. This bill is very important in our country, very important. We don't produce Challengers, but we build great buildings and we should have a lot of respect for these people. The biggest reservation is the provision concerning the division of the construction project into 3 parts, i.e. such as land development project, architectural and construction project and technical design. Construction engineers, with whom I have worked for many years, stress that all three parts must be consistent. They need to be consistent with each other. So it won't be good if the building permit is issued after approval of only 2 parts of the project. The technical design will not be subject to verification by the construction supervisory authority, while the responsibility for the solution adopted in it will lie with the designer so far. So it's worth it. Think about it. And I've been a conciliatory man my whole life. On the introduction of the provisions which will improve the said law. The technical project should be considered as an implementing project, which would actually contribute to speeding up and improving the construction process and would reduce its costs. In my opinion, and those consulted, it should be clarified that the obligation to draw up a technical project concerns all investments covered by the obligation to obtain a building permit or notification to which the project must, of course, be attached, and therefore require the establishment of a construction manager. And introducing an obligation to maintain in the form of an electronic technical design on the date of commencement of works and to submit it to the competent body of construction supervision... This would be a benchmark for controls, e.g. the construction site. The proposed division of the construction project is according to the assessment of those with whom I have worked for many years, simply a revolution which can cause huge confusion and will force different thinking of both engineers, architects and, of course, officials. If the technical design remains unchanged, as proposed by the procedated law, then in fact the entire burden of this project will fall on this poor construction manager. Whoever wasn't, doesn't get it. It is hard to resist the impression that, with such changes, construction engineers will be pushed into the role of contractors of orders of architects and designers, and therefore you are pushing this profession of engineer, which is praised all over the world to the level of craftsmanship. That's how you thanked them for 30 years of hard work on construction sites. Another question raises the question of legalising at least 20-year-old construction self-confidence, even those incompatible with the local spatial planning plan. I agree with what Senator Dunin has said, but there are no specific rules on who will evaluate and what criteria he has taken into account when assessing those 20 years. Suddenly, there may be reports and it will turn out that almost all illegal buildings in Poland are 20-year-old buildings, because that's how we can do it. There is also a lack of record until such a request can be made. This bill is far underdeveloped. These are very big changes in the law. They're introduced quickly and, as you always do, chaoticly. Finally, I would like to thank the senator, my previous speaker and the rapporteur. My mild approach to these amendments comes from the fact that I would like you not to insist, but to recognise certain points. A wise man doesn't get used to a mistake, but he can admit a mistake and go back. And that's what I wish you very much. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u326	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Artur Dunin and Senator Władysław Komarnicki have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you that... Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Yes, sir, sir, I am addressing you in this regard. Are we really talking about the same bill? Because I feel like the senator hasn't read the bill. I know your rhetoric. Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you to keep the formulas that are in force in the Senate. Mr. Senator, if you're talking about the technical conditions of the connection and the notification to the building permit, I'd like to remind you... The Senator said about the connections... Gentlemen, I ask you to remain calm. I would very much like to ask the Minister to respond to the legislative proposals that have been tabled. All right, Mr. Marshal. I would like to remind you that it was the Civic Platform in 2015 that abolished the obligation to join this. Minister... About... ...the point is that you should refer, on behalf of the government, to the legislative proposals that have been presented. Yes, Mr. Marshal, and in my opinion, I do. Mr. Senator raised security issues and will join you, and I'm explaining, and I'm starting with this introduction... You're welcome. Mr. Senator, as far as the construction project is concerned and the division of this project is concerned... You're talking about a threat to the citizens. I don't know if you've talked to investors or who you mean by "citizens." Investors with whom were carried out, I will remind you, since April 2019, the... These consultations clearly showed that the investment process and the design process should be made more flexible. And there is absolutely no question of eliminating any form of power in the field of industry, in terms of powers. Please indicate a provision that eliminates the obligation to have a technical project before starting the interview. What conversation? Please indicate the recipe where we're closing it. I think that the question is that the project that is needed to start construction, the project that is confirmed by the construction manager's statement, but not only because the designer's statement guarantees that... The current technical project must be mandatory for construction. We know how many times the technical design changes in terms of its... As far as these 3 copies are concerned, I would like to answer why 3 copies. One stops the supervisory authority, the other stops the architectural and construction body, and the third stops the investor. That's why this... And the investor still has to do his job and pass it on to... Please, Mr. Senator, there's no form of discussion right now. There was an opportunity to ask questions to the government representative. The discussion is closed. Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, the Minister is responding to proposals of a legislative nature. I appeal to both the senators and the minister not to engage in polemics in this area, because this is not the moment when... This applies to both sides of the discussion. I would ask you to respond to legislative proposals, not to ask questions to the senators. Sure. Mr. Senator, when it comes to building self-defense, it's... What kind of plan would that apply to? I would like to remind you that if the municipality is conducting the process of adopting the local plan, if the municipality has adopted the local plan, so this self-will supposedly is in line with the local plan, then the municipality should inventory and take appropriate measures to remove this self-reliantly. If there is a local plan and the commune tolerates it, why do we impose a duty on a citizen who wants to legalize his own self-will? Why not give this opportunity in an accelerated, simplified way? As far as Senator Komarnicki is concerned, I agree that the rules should be consistent and the division of these parts of the projects should be consistent. And we're not ruling out consistency here. This discussion among designers, among architects, of engineers has been conducted, as I said, since April 2019. And it is evident that this provision does not limit the ability of engineers. About BIM... I forgot to bring up BIM. Introducing a technical project into the system of Polish law... He actually enhances design capabilities at BIM. We're talking about a line here... Minister... Mr. Senator, I didn't interrupt you, so please... As far as BIM is concerned, the opinion of Polish architects here clearly states that the emergence of a technical project strengthens... A technical project that raises such doubts... Once again, I would like to say here that at the moment when construction starts and there is a notification, permission to start construction, this technical project must be on the construction site, which is confirmed by the designer's statement and the construction manager's statement in the entry. I know myself that the number of changes with regard to supervisory authorities... The supervisory authorities will be able to control the technical specifications contained in these plans, in the technical projects, because at the time when the supervisory authority appears at the construction site, this current technical project will be there. And I think it's clear in our view that this division into an architectural and construction project, a land development project or a plot, a technical project... This will allow for flexibility in the investment process. Senator Komarnicki also spoke of verification. There is a concern that AB bodies, that is, architectural and construction bodies, will not verify, because at the time of building permission they will not be... I would like to say that in the current legal state authorities do not verify the construction project either. They check the case in terms of the completeness of the attached documentation, but there are no rules that talk about verification of the technical design. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u328	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. The text of the Act is contained in print No 58 and the committee's report In print No 58 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a long shot to get back to the last bill, but the Marshal has closed the discussion... I've closed the discussion. Although I think I've had at least five minutes left. But, Senator... I closed the discussion, but you didn't report in the second round. I was raising my hand, Mr. Marshal, raising my hand. I didn't notice. But okay, we'll explain some things at the committee meeting. I'm moving on to another project. To the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. Just a little bit. There was one amendment tabled. The project seems I'll say it myself, if the marshal will allow it. Needed, it meets the needs of ecology. Too bad it's so late, but better late than never. The draft was adopted in its entirety with one amendment, so that on behalf of the committee I recommend such adoption of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u330	Thank you, Senator, for a very lapidary report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the draft law on amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations, this is another step towards supporting local governments in the fight against energy poverty. The proposed amendment aims above all at increasing the effects of supporting the existing thermomodernisation, extending the catalogue of entities and beneficiaries, especially those who need this support most, i.e. municipal premises. According to respect, according to a survey and according to an expert opinion of the Institute of Construction Technology 85% municipal premises in the resource require urgent repair or thermomodernisation intervention. Increasing energy efficiency in the housing sector, reducing emissions of harmful substances is one of the priorities behind this law. According to CUS data about 40% large plate buildings still require intervention in the field of thermomodernization. Therefore, together with the Institute of Construction Technology, we carried out an expert study which proves that, at the same time economically and technically, it is justified to carry out, together with the thermomodernization, the strengthening of the texture layer and the construction layer of objects from a large plate. Therefore, the proposed novel brings additional support of 50% investment costs. Well, according to estimates, sometimes the cost of anchors alone is 40%. the cost of heating buildings. The investment and support of local authorities covers about 31 thousand multi-family buildings. Increasing the thermomodernisation premium from 16% to 21% of the thermomodernization project for RES installations is also a tribute to climate protection support in the context of multi-family buildings. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u332	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to raise such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u333	I have a question for the Minister: will all the buildings of the great album be subjected to this thermomodernization, or will there be any pot that will not be subjected to these treatments? I ask because thermomodernization is crucial when it comes to combating energy poverty, about providing clean air in our cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u334	Thank you, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The amounts that are allocated in a ten-year perspective allow... Based on the calculations, it can be presumed that the entire 40% niche will be satisfied. I would like to say that this year in the proposed novel there is an additional PLN 0 from the budget, and that is because there are savings of PLN 248 million in the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund. We've spread it out in a ten-year perspective, so that the 40%. buildings have been warmed up. I would also like to say that the higher thermomodernization bonus, this 50% bonus, which is the amendment, which we only give to the premises... In our view, intervention is most needed in the case of municipal premises, i.e. those owned by 100% There is a municipality because there are lower rents. Therefore, these lower rents must be compensated by a higher premium, a 50% premium or 60% but it's in the case of historical objects. Well, if we extend it to companies, then... First of all, we rely on the principle of state aid. That's what commercial law companies and companies can rent on a commercial basis are for. Our proposal is 50% for premises whose ownership structure belongs 100% to the municipality. It's about 30,000 buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u336	Thank you very much. Senator Piecha has an extra question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u337	Yeah, that's an extra question. You're talking about municipal resources, some municipal resources are taken care of by an antique conservationist. I would like to ask: how will we manage there? I don't think warming up the outer walls is going to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, as far as this question is concerned, that is a technical question. There are ways to warm buildings of historical nature from the inside, there is a technique, as shown in the 2018 Review of the Operation of the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund. From this report, ITB analysis shows that inter-constructional warming is performed inside, including elimination of thermal bridges in partitions, carrier walls and partition walls.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u339	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, Minister. Me too. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Indeed, the problem of a large album in Poland is quite a serious problem, because these are hundreds of thousands of apartments on the national scale. I have a question: does the government or ministry have any estimates that some of these buildings will simply enter the technical death phase sooner or later for structural reasons or the wear process? This will be a huge social and political problem. Does the government have any estimates here? I'm asking because it's gonna be a big deal. Let us remind you that often these are buildings that are 50 years old, 60 years old, or more, the estimated duration of operation was 40 years and are operated longer. This is, in my opinion, a serious problem that relates to this bill. Of course, thermal insulation is absolutely justified and necessary, after all, these were buildings built in old technologies, unwarmed, the losses there were huge. But I have a fundamental question: are there any estimates, and is there a diagram that would show how it will change in time? I ask because I think this process will unfortunately increase, causing additional new housing problems, especially housing problems, and I am not talking about commercial or utility resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u341	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u342	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! These estimates are, I'm not gonna put those numbers out of my head right now, but I'm gonna say that one of the key elements that was in favour of funding... Let's remember that there is a renovation bonus in addition to the thermomodernization bonus. I as an estimate for those held 40% This resource is still several hundred thousand buildings in large-scale buildings, which is the problem for a few million people. This is indeed a very important problem. It turned out that the most pressing issue that causes security violations and endangers the safety or health of residents are metal connections, so-called. anchors, they combine the outer part with the internal design, with the texture. And thanks to these analyses, these estimates we want to invest, and average warming of one block is estimated at 200 thousand, of which 40% could be the cost of these anchors... We of those 40% We want to finance 50% for anchors, in addition there is a repair bonus and a thermomodernization bonus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u343	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to ask you an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would have asked the Minister to answer my question in writing because you mentioned... Good. I'm talking about the scale of the problem, so we know exactly what the estimates are. And my second question. I understand that any entity can apply for this bonus, i.e. and cooperative, and housing communities, and ADM, or municipal resources. Is there any variation here? I'm talking about the renovations, I'm not talking about... I'm talking about both. Sure. What are the rules? Can you apply for this kind of bonus here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u345	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u346	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! We are novelizing the barriers, i.e. The group of beneficiaries has been extended to an absolute circle, in the sense that everyone can apply for a renovation premium, a thermomodernization premium. The only difference is the amount of this premium, 50% this is a premium higher for municipal premises owned by municipalities. We are removing the restrictions that have so far existed in terms of access to these bonuses for beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u347	Your third question, please, is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u348	And when it comes to individual owners, if someone owns the building...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u349	That's 15%. . 15% . Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u350	Thank you very much. I see there are no more questions to ask. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Janusz Błucherz will be the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm gonna start with history. In 2004, in Kalisz, we adopted a programme of thermomodernization and modernisation of all schools, and these schools were 29. There weren't any shows like today. And today we have a new program, which is very good. I will commend him, even though I will have one comment. What gave us what started back then in 2004? This trial lasted four years. In 2014, we prepared a low emission reduction programme. And then, in this program, the city's benefits were calculated as a result of the thermomodernization of educational institutions. It was calculated that the city saved annually on thermomodernization 'Cause it didn't spend that money on large amounts of coal on heating, 'cause it didn't spend 1 million 700 thousand a year. And on the fact that we weren't renovating schools because they were renovated at the same time as the thermomodernization, it saved 1 million 500 grand. So it was over $3 million a year. There weren't really any administrative barriers at the time. We used a thermomodernization loan and spent over PLN 55 million on it. Later, outside of me, which is after 2014, all kindergartens were renovated for the new president of the city, using loans and also using this program. On the other hand, cooperatives, these large-plate cooperatives, themselves have started to thermomodernise and have also done so. I'm asking today who in Kalisz will be doing this, using this program. Well, there will be many willing, many will want to benefit from this program. The only flaw in what we're talking about, what we're discussing, the only flaw that I'm getting the attention of the people I've been discussing and talking with, it's like it's time from the announcement of recruitment to the conclusion of the competitions. Well, this time is too short, the more you have to take considering that we need to have energy audits. Energy audits are done by professionals, and professionals are gone. So this time is getting longer. When it comes to big cities, they'll be fine. On the other hand, as far as subjects are concerned... Because today we ask if everyone can benefit? and we know that everyone... Well, they may not be able to prepare the project at the time. And that's a flaw. But from my point of view, And I've been in the Senate for 3 months. This project, which the government has prepared, is one of the best projects that residents can benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u352	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, Senator, I agree with you that this is an exceptionally well-prepared bill. Yes, in fact, the government on the occasion of this law shows good will and after so many years, practically five years of fighting with the local government, today it pulls out an olive branch and gives something to the local government. In order to go after the blow and, as a rule, pull out this olive branch, and not just order the local authorities to carry out further tasks, I will propose an amendment concerning entities such as: TBS or self-owners, which, when it comes to self-government, could, as it were, extend the use of this money. Yeah, the Senator's fear of the PiS is pretty legitimate. Are they going to benefit? Buildings from the big album, according to recent data, from the analyses that were done in 2016, hold well, so you will be able to these objects, these blocks from the big album actually warm up, without throwing away the money. I agree with Senator Jackowski's statement that fear is, of course, and rightly so. But after these analyses that I've gotten to and about which I think the Ministry also has them, I think yes, it's worth investing in warming. That's a good direction. Yeah, that's a good direction, a good bill. I hope that, despite the differences, this amendment will also be adopted and that we will come even more to the local authorities with help in warming up and in this green struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u354	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Artur Dunin has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u355	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! In fact, I would like to thank Senator Bladder for paying attention to this issue. We will examine in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego what the issue of implementation looks like, because in some places this issue may have been associated with the formality and implementation of all the necessary procedures for applying for this funding and this is too short a deadline. So that I pledge to look at... Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u356	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Dear Senators, let me remind you that point 16th, i.e. the law amending the law amending the law on the amendment of the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws has already been examined. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Public Finance Act. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. It is included in print No 31 and the committee's report In print No 31 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Gromek, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I'm sure we'll be done today, and we'll be home tomorrow. This is our great joy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law, a law that changes the words at least 60% For words and a number of at least 40% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. What does that come from? There were two meetings. The first was a meeting of our committee with representatives of the Polish Towns Association, which took place on 8 January, and then on 30 January was a joint meeting of our Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration with the Legislative Commission. This is all due to the needs of local governments, and it is known, as I look at everyone, that we all come from some local government. And there is no denying that this is not a discussion and a law of a political nature, but about the need for the development of our small families, small communities. Reduction of the limit on the share of appropriations from the European Union budget and non-refundable from aid granted by Member States from 60% up to 40% of funding for programmes, projects or financial tasks will benefit the local government sector as it increases the possibility of excluding these liabilities from the individual debt ratio referred to in Article. 243. The proposed amendment will increase the number of EU projects in which commitments to finance the own contribution of local government units will be exempted from the individual debt limit introduced in 2013. This is particularly important in the context of the EU's perspective for the coming years, 2021 and 2027, which, as announced by the European Commission, is expected to reduce the level of funding from the European Union budget for national measures. Thanks to the proposed change of local government unit in Poland, they will be able to increase the absorption of European Union funds through the possibility of providing own contribution mainly from banks and loans of these banks. This change will increase the use by local government units of still available resources from the current financial perspective of the European Union as well as planned in the new programming period. And let me remind you, there's only 15 billion zlotys to take. As a self-government officer and president of the city, who has benefited from many millions You can count it in hundreds. Same as a friend of Zygmunt's, and so is a friend of Wadi's... Do you know the joy of getting external resources to build our small cities and big cities? Also a friend of Janusz from Kalisz. There were times when the funding was 100%. Well, that was great. Later this decreased to 85%, to 75%, to 60%, but every form of co-financing gives local governments real opportunities to do what is most important. Because, however you look, the situation of local governments has worsened. And that's because there are unpredictable burdens resulting from some government decisions, taxes, not taxes. And local governments have to hold on to what is most important, or so-called. rigid expenditure: education, social assistance, maintenance of the city, city security. And if we don't help this bill, they won't pursue their next goals: the construction of kindergartens, crèches, roads, sidewalks, lighting on transitions and other things that are so important to our small and larger local governments. This is all the more important because there has been a large increase in investment costs due to current market conditions. This leads to pre-calculated projects of 60% to 70% for funding. at present they are so much more expensive that the level of funding with the already established amount of the grant falls to 40-50%. Here I have a record of investment expenditure for only some cities and the vast majority of these financings have decreased below 60%. Working hours went up, materials went up, etc., etc. That's why... I'm not looking at you. I'm looking up. Let me remind you again that we are from local governments. I ask you to vote on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u358	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Janusz Gromek to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Heavy artillery ahead of you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u359	Mr. Senator, if that's okay... If you were to present the philosophy of this proposal in one sentence, then... I understand that it is a matter of making it easier to raise funds for self-government. Did... Do you want me to give you a quick answer? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u360	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u361	That's what I'm talking about. Now my second question. Isn't that rubbing... Because I understand that these measures will not be included in the debt. Yes? They won't. Exactly. Isn't that some kind of creative mechanism... I don't want to use that word, but please understand me. Because he is not really going to give up the actual liabilities of a given local government unit. Is this the way to interpret the mechanism that is proposed in this solution? I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u362	Thank you, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u363	I'll tell you this: really, local governments are responsible for what decisions and steps they make. There may be a number of cases, but most of us local government officials will not allow ourselves to be dragged out to lose the community. I'm sure it'll be preserved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u364	Thank you very much, Senator. I see there are no further questions for the senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Yes. Please, Minister Tomasz Robaczyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the clou is in what you asked the senator. I mean, the individual debt ratio is to protect local governments from over-indebtedness. The fact that, of course, every local governmentman and one who manages the finances of the local government is trying to ensure that this debt doesn't affect the performance of the tasks of the local government, that's... I understand that, but then no debt ratio would be needed at all, because everyone would implement the budget according to their best will and discernment in such a way that this debt would not be excessive. But we know that there are cases like this... or that there aren't. Ostrowice County was such a special case that happened last year. This municipality was therefore liquidated, and this was the first such case. And that's really what this is all about. If these funds are excluded from the individual debt ratio, that does not mean that this debt will not be incurred, but that debt will not be included in the debt ratio. In this respect, it will not actually give up the situation of the local government, i.e. what real commitments this government will have. I understand the arguments that say that projects have been expensive, that there are cases where additional tasks are not eligible are expensive, and as a result it turns out that the entire project is not financed in the amount of 60%. , only in a lower amount and therefore enters the debt ratio. But that's why this indicator was set at 60%. I would like to remind you that for all these programmes that are currently being implemented, the maximum percentage of funding is 85%. The average level of this co-financing is 68% When it comes to local government projects. So this indicator has been adjusted so that on the one hand it is not extremely high, so it is not consistent with this maximum EU indicator 85% , but on the other hand, so that it is not so that all projects, regardless of what level of EU funding they have, are becoming EU projects. Because there's such temptation. And we see it in the Ministry of Finance. It is already a bit more mental and it appears in public space that if the project is financed in any way from the Union, then it is an EU project, whether it has 20%, 40%, 60% or 80%. And if he's already 60%, we know that 40% These are national measures. That's pretty much it. If he's got 40% now , according to this proposal... Yeah, 40%. EU funding will indicate that 60% is already national. And if you count, just look at the proportions, it turns out that such a project somehow ceases to be an EU project, is a national project with a minority, so to speak, an EU contribution. And so... I do not deny the need to improve this indicator in this particular aspect. Besides, this indicator has already been improved, it has been modernised with the participation of local government units. This issue was discussed quite extensively at the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission meeting, which ultimately resulted in a revision of the Public Finance Act, which modified this indicator in several different aspects. I'm not gonna go into detail here. But it was kind of a compromise solution developed with local governments. Now the question is whether we really open the way for all projects, backwards and forwards Backwards, i.e. in the old perspective, those already realized, and forwards, i.e. all implemented in the new perspective So that this indicator... to disable this indicator would actually be 40%. What did we mean when we built this indicator at 60%? ? It was just that we wanted, first of all, not to create such an atmosphere, that if the project has any funding, it is an EU project, and secondly, not to diversify these projects excessively, i.e. Don't mess it up. To stick to the 85% rule. financing. In specific cases, if it is really necessary, some unexpected circumstances actually occur, this level may go down to the 60% threshold. Now Mr. Senator said... Well, if commitments or projects are made... if contracts are signed on the assumption that the project has 70% funding or 60% , it should be expected immediately that there is a high probability that there will be any unforeseen circumstances, either an increase in costs, or additional robots, and the project will fall below those 60%. What we meant was that the starting point was 85%. And if something special happens, that's 60%. , final 60% It didn't disrupt the government's finances. Now, going below this level, we are dealing with an opening, i.e. more spending space for the local government, which increases the deficit of the public finance sector, which in turn, when it comes to calculating all the parameters, causes that... The greater the spending of the local government, the smaller the expenditure of the rest of the sector can be. Because it all includes a stabilizing spending rule. Well, and the amounts that are reserved or will be reserved in the new financial perspective, and those that have already been reserved in this perspective and implemented, with the assumption that there will be such a tendency to reduce the level of EU funding for these projects... Well, that makes this space and this increase in the sector deficit may, in our opinion, be too big. And that gives a signal, a rule like that just sends a signal that this trend is going this way: to reduce... to do more projects, but to reduce funding at the very level of planning, not because it happened for some reason. Therefore, without denying to the full the need to help the local authorities at this point in time to implement the projects of the old financial perspective relatively smoothly and to... Because it is known that these expenditures on the financial perspective are the highest, that is also the peak of spending in recent years, i.e. right now, in the years 2020 to 2023. However, we would suggest that there should be mechanisms in this law to prevent situations where project funding is tended or specifically reduced, or some mechanisms to prevent such situations where this debt excluded from the indicator will, however, be dangerous for the local government. You can think of a few mechanisms like that. We, referring to this proposal, pointed out that for now So as to help local governments on an ad hoc basis This mechanism is applied only to new projects in the current financial perspective. Or, if this were to be a system solution for the future, to be indicative... Or that one of the authorities should have the opportunity to do so in the event of a threat to the finances of the local government, e.g. in order to give the relevant regional authority to the financial chambers which, when examining all possible local government loans, could decide to prohibit the local government from concluding such a credit agreement. So, in general, we are not against this solution, in particular at the end of the perspective, but given that it is, however, a debt of the local government that is going to increase and that debt will have to be repaid, but it would be good if there were some additional collateral in this regard. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u366	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski asked questions. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u367	Thank you very much, Minister, for these detailed explanations, but I would ask for a specific declaration whether the government supports this submission in this form or does not support it. And if he doesn't support it, does he think about any similar system solutions or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u368	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u369	Firstly, there was no official government position on this issue. Depending on how we take our point of view and what we aim at, these solutions are good or not quite good, not quite good. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance and what might affect the finances of the local government, these solutions are That's what I'd say. It's just not quite good. This is why it is difficult for me to state clearly whether this law should be adopted in this form, precisely because of the stability of the finances of the local government. I don't deny it. - Like I said. The fact that this is needed, in particular as regards the end of the financial perspective. If it were to pass this law in this form, however, I would suggest that it should apply to all new contracts concluded under the current financial perspective. And as for the further system solution, we're still working on this indicator, as I said, because it's living matter and it's changing all the time. As I said, a law amending this indicator has already been adopted in many respects as part of a compromise with local government units. Further loosening of this indicator may be dangerous. And in such a pure form that we are simply lowering from 60% to 40% the EU co-financing rate and all the projects since the beginning of the world, relating and to the old, and to the new perspective, we will disable... It is all the obligations arising from projects which have such refinement. Well, I think it's too far-reaching a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u370	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll brief you on one of my senators. Namely, a group of people came to me who are complaining to their mayor that, as part of their savings in January 2020, they had changed their contracts, and in a way insidious, of course, through their officials, who directly engage in employment in the organizational units of the municipality. He changed these contracts in such a way that, with the remaining range of activities, he reduced all contracts by one quarter of the staff, i.e. from full-time to three-quarters, and consequently he would not have to raise the wages for these people. And this is about raising the basic minimum basic wage and excluding minimum internship from this salary. Well, what did it turn out to be? This mayor invested in, I'd call it, revitalizing the market. This market looks beautiful, only that I said then that these people unfortunately can now individual elements of small architecture on this market put tablets on it. The question is: whether the change from 60% to 40% Wouldn't it make people like that come to me more? It's not very fortunate, and it's not very reasonable to invest some of the municipalities, and it makes the weakest of them suffer at the very end. Of course, the market looks beautiful. For visitors, not for their own.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u372	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u373	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! In fact, there is no clear answer to this question, because this proposal, which is currently on the vocabulary, will cause the spending space of the local government to be greater. And now the question is how much this larger spending space the local government will manage properly and if not. Well, if it turns out that a loan that the local government will be able to formally afford... Because, let's say, in the current situation, the project could be 50%. or 40% co-financed by EU funds The rest is national. If the government were to exceed the individual debt ratio, it could not take such a loan, and that was it, because it could not formally repay it. If we adopt this solution now, the local government, formally speaking, will be able to take such a loan and the instalments of the loan will not be included in the debt ratio. The question is whether taking this loan will cause him to actually not be able to pay for it and will have to cut other expenses, e.g. for remuneration, or he can handle it freely, and even though he will have larger loan instalments, his finances will generally not suffer from it. The indicator protects against this first situation. Of course, as it was said here, no one wants or should in any case accept the idealistic assumption that they do not want, and should not lead to such a financial situation that the local government is unable to handle its own debt. But as such situations occur, the debt ratio prevents such situations when it turns out that despite good intentions, the government is unable to handle its debt. And that's the only thing about the indicator, although it works in an automatic way of course: you're exceeding a certain level of debt You can't borrow any more credits. It doesn't exactly mean that you've borrowed more credits. If we'd let that happen, would the rules have allowed you to do it? You wouldn't be able to handle this debt, but there's a good chance you won't be able to, and that's why this indicator is so set. But it's not certain. It may in one case prove that such an additional loan, even though it exceeds the rate, the government will nevertheless be able to operate, these instalments will normally be able to pay, and in another it may turn out not to be. So this indicator is a little automatic and there is no clear answer to that question. It may happen that if the local government is not able to serve, it will have to cut expenses, among others. for wages. If it turns out that it can serve, then it will not cut, but if it does not cut these expenditures, it will have higher expenditures, and therefore in the following year all other entities in the public finance sector, including the state budget, funds, etc., etc., which are included in the expenditure rule, will have to have these lower expenditures, because the local government will have higher expenditures in total, so that the expenditure of other entities will necessarily have to be lower.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u374	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u375	Since there may be a discussion, I would like to ask the Minister another question, so that we may be aware, although I am aware. There are about 2,000 800 municipalities in Poland, right? You listed Ostrowice here. As far as I know, this is the only municipality that's been dissolved. But you know, she wasn't solved because she took loans, built, invested. She worked at this level: 85% Forests and dozens of shacks. And what was she supposed to live on? That's why it was solved. That's one thing. Second thing... If I've taken the time, I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. This law is followed by local government officials, the Polish City Union and others, and they see such a need. If this is not the case, there will be some billions of unused EU funds left out there. I'm asking for help from local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u376	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u377	As far as the municipality of Ostrowice is concerned, I do not agree, it is not the only municipality that has, so to speak, such a proportion of the land inhabited to the uninhabited. It is simply that the municipality has ceased to be solvent and that is all, and this has happened because of the operation of such a financial economy rather than another one. I'm not going to go into the details of why it was, but it's not a matter of foresting or not foresting and a small number of residents, it's a question of running a financial economy. As far as the second point is concerned, I am saying that I am generally not against this solution by the Ministry of Finance, in particular as regards the conclusion of the current financial perspective. On the other hand, it is against such a system solution, which leads to the deliberate construction of co-financing agreements, that immediately, in advance, it will be assumed that the projects will be financed to a lower degree than the programme shows, i.e. we want to do more projects. And from a certain point of view, it's the right thing to do. But these more projects make more national resources necessary, so debt is growing and spending is increasing. Such a systemic solution to the whole, as regards the old new perspective, however, the general solution requires safeguards, which will be somewhat connected to this debt ratio. With regard to the possibilities or the need to adapt the rules on the use of funds from the current financial perspective, this is a good project, but with regard to the overall systemic solution for all EU projects, I think it is too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u378	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz came forward for the discussion. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will briefly say: more trust in local governments. Minister, this is the President, and now Senator Gromek has overtaken me a little bit, because I also wanted to stress... I'm sorry. It's okay. So far, one municipality has gone bankrupt. I'm not saying the communes aren't in trouble because they are. There are many indebted municipalities that actually have problems, but so far only one has gone bankrupt. There are many municipalities such as Ostrowice, with such a forestation. With me there are municipalities in Lubuskie Voivodeship, which also have 85% forestation. And you're right, Minister, that some of them are doing well and others are not doing well. It's a matter of politics, but still... We've got two and a thousands of local governments in Poland and a big request: more trust in local governments. And it's not exactly what Mr. Czerwinski said here, that the residents came because with their money somebody renovated the building... Mr. Senator, if you're the mayor or the president, then you decide. I would not make it clear here that it was the money of these workers that was renovated the market, because these are the decisions of local self-government. There's the city council, she approves it, she accepts it. It's transparent, public. And the increase in minimum wage means that many municipalities have problems because everyone has to raise their pay. That's not what I'm going to talk about, because that's not the most important thing right now. I would like to appeal for greater confidence in local governments. I'll tell you about an example of my community. Minister, I've been taking over my community with debt... we've reached 60% debt. That was 60%. according to the old indicator To make it easier to catch this line of thinking. Okay? So we were practically at the wall. When I left the office of president of the city three months ago, my city's debt was 10%. Do you know why? Because I'll tell you colloquially. We went out of our way and took a risk, invested, built roads, pulled investors, the city started to grow. Sometimes without those investments, we wouldn't have done it. You might wonder if you'd take the 40%. I don't care if you don't take it at all. I'll take the 40%. With full respect, because I know what your concerns are, because I understand them... big request: more trust in local governments. The situation of my municipality, Nowa Sola, can serve as an example of how we managed to bounce from the wall and today have 10% debt. In a few years, maybe we'll hit 60% again, but this is... These are development cycles: we invest, we get stronger, then we pay off the debt, then we take it back. etc. I'm keeping it from such a simple conclusion that if someone's in debt, it's a bad thing. You can be completely unindebted and not develop at all. I'm the one who prefers to borrow and grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u380	Thank you very much. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I will appeal very strongly to you to support this project because it is important and urgent. I think we need a discussion about the finances of the local government, because we are using random and not quite correct data here. I will therefore propose that you take part in this seminar meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I can already say that it is planned for March 2nd. And there will be various, very up-to-date information on the state of local finances. Now there are a lot of concrete things about this project. There is a security in the form of regional chambers of accounts against uncontrolled sovereign debt. Each credit must receive an RIO opinion Without this opinion, you can't get credit. The Regional Audit Chamber should take into account all aspects, both those loans that have been taken and entered into the individual debt ratio as well as those outside it. I think that in the municipality of Ostrowice there was a lack of regional supervision of the clearing house. It was said here that this is why there is an individual debt ratio, so as not to allow excessive over-indebtedness of local governments. And rightfully, that's why he's here. But what's the point of releasing certain loans if they concern European funds? To facilitate the absorption of EU money. Why are we proposing this change now? Because the conditions for implementing projects co-financed by EU money have changed. What's changed? Unfortunately, the revenues of local government units and their financial situation have changed rapidly. I have for you such data from the publication of the Ministry of Finance, current, because of 13 January 2020. They relate to the multiannual financial forecasts. I will give you a comparison, which was calculated on the basis of May 2019 data and January 2020 data. Namely, last year was finished with an operating surplus of 5 billion 180 million. According to the WPFs, this surplus was estimated at 3 billion 235 million in January. And immediately it is assumed to increase the debt from 88 to 97.5 billion PLN, and the dynamics of debt repayment are also decreasing. It'll all be presented when there's a little more time. That's right now. And that's the urgency of the case. The municipalities, powiats, voivodships must decide whether or not they will continue to conduct EU projects after successful tenders, i.e. often after signing contracts. They may withdraw from these projects and withdraw. I chair the union of the central subregion, i.e. the ZIT-based organization, which is responsible for spending money from ZIT in the Silesian Voivodeship, and I observe it every day. They withdraw, even because they can't take credit, because it will charge an individual debt ratio and they won't get a positive opinion from the regional clearing house. We're dealing with such a dilemma right now. Will you expose yourself to the risks that Minister Robaczyński referred to but lose part of EU funding It could be an irretrievable loss because it's too late to redirect this money. Do you use this money and increase the risk of debt? It's worth telling you what the risk is. On 32% of local government debt income those not covered by this individual debt ratio due to EU projects this is about 2 percentage points, that is very small, insignificant in this general debt of the public sphere of the Polish state amount. In the future financial perspective there will no longer be 85% maximum funding from EU money for projects carried out in our country. Depending on the region, these will be significantly lower indicators and then keep this indicator at 60% it will be completely unobtrusive, because no one or almost nobody will be able to fulfill it. So if we want to intensify this absorption, it's going to have to be lowered anyway. If we lower it due to the temporary, I hope, financial situation of local governments, we will help now, when it is most needed, and we will overtake what should happen in the near future. This situation described by Senator Czerwiński, in my opinion, is more due to a change in the rules of the game during the course of the game than to bad planning, because even if there was very good planning, it could not be predicted that the revenues of the municipality would be reduced during the financial year. When that happens, local governments often resort to desperate steps, I don't know if such... If this step was good, I doubt it, but that's what proves that some of the local governments are up against the wall. This may result in a reduction in absorption, i.e. the loss of EU money, which should be allocated to investment in Poland. Once again, I call on you to support this initiative because there is nothing to wait for. In a moment, this perspective will be over, and some of the money may not be used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u382	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. The third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Dear Senators, let me remind you that item 18 of the agenda, i.e. The second reading of the draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union has already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The draft is contained in print 43 and the committee's report In print No 43 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As your Marshal mentioned here, the text of the Act in print 43 and 43 S was created because the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment on the Law on Road Traffic. In particular, he found it incompatible with the Constitution of the Article. Article 130a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5c of this law and art. Article 130a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Paragraph 7 (1) of that law. Let me put this in the simplest words: Art. 130a regulates issues related to the removal of vehicles from the road at the expense of the owner. Such vehicles shall then be placed in special guarded parking lots. The driving of these parking lots is assigned to the counties as a task of its own. Pending the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the procedure was that the owner of such a vehicle first had to pay a fee for storing such a vehicle and towing it into the parking lot and then he could recover his vehicle. In its judgment, the Court held that such a procedure would interfere too far with the ownership of the owner of the vehicle and challenged that order, i.e. the need to pay the toll for towing and storing the vehicle before it is removed from the parking lot. The Court delivered that judgment in December 2018, but since the judgment had far-reaching consequences, also as regards the budget of the counties, the Constitutional Tribunal dismissed its implementation by 9 months. This judgment entered into force on 13 September 2019. Until then, the legislator, that is also us, had the opportunity to amend or supplement the relevant provisions of the. Law on Road Traffic, because, as I said, this judgment was of the nature of the judgment in scope. It wasn't a clean removal, I mean. in one case there was removal and in the other case the mouth. 5c, that was a range sentence. We as Senate formulated such a project in the previous term of office and submitted it to the marshal's staff. Unfortunately, it was late enough that the Sejm simply did not have time to take care of him. As a result, because, as you know, the principle of discounting applies, we go back to the starting point and again we deal with this sentence, so I hope that it will be implemented effectively and to make life easier not for the owners of vehicles anymore, but mainly for the counties, because it is the districts that have a problem, they may have problems and report problems with recovering this fee when there is no such compulsion, namely the need to pay a fee before picking up the vehicle. The text contained in print 43 S shall, in a reasonably comprehensive manner, regulate the procedure for the recovery of such a vehicle which is forced to be towed and held in a guarded parking lot. How is this going to go according to this procedure? First of all, the issue of the recovery of the vehicle is separated from the payment of an appropriate amount which compensates the county for the storage and towing of such a vehicle. Namely, anyone whose vehicle will be placed in such a guarded parking lot has the right to pick up this vehicle, but within 7 days of receiving such a vehicle is obliged to pay a fee. If he doesn't do it in seven days, he automatically exposes himself to two effects. The first effect is that criminal interest shall be calculated for each day for the period when this fee is not paid and the second effect is that this fee shall be charged by administrative execution. The provisions of the amendment we are talking about are designed to ensure that the counties can effectively enforce such a fee. It will be among others. issued such a special acknowledgement of receipt of the vehicle which is intended to give rise to the issue of an implementing title within the meaning of the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration. In addition, the Minister responsible for this department will be required to issue a special model of such confirmation. It will include those data that will effectively enable such an administrative procedure to be initiated. Importantly, such proceedings will concern Polish citizens or those who have their habitual residence in Poland. Persons who do not have such a place, specifically those who do not have a permanent residence or stay, must pay this fee before issuing the vehicle. It's just like the fines that the police are punishing people who don't comply with traffic regulations. This draft law was consulted in a very detailed way in the old term and on the appearance of this project, the content of which was quite influenced by comments which individual local governments, mainly cities, because it is mainly in cities, maybe not in rural districts, but in cities which are on the rights of the county... They made quite a number of comments. Now, at the last stage, the Ministry of Finance also made comments. During the committee meeting, 2 comments, such editorials, were taken into account, but since there were more of these comments, I will be the one who, after this speech, will give during the discussion how we reacted to those comments that you have made. As regards the issue of the effectiveness of executions, unfortunately, so far the picture has not been very optimistic. It may turn out that the effectiveness of this execution in relation to this procedure will be reduced compared to what was previously done. But we have no influence on that, because, as I said, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is clear here, and with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, we simply do not argue. One more order, or actually a temporary one. Namely, we predict that until the Minister has issued an appropriate model of confirmation of the receipt of the vehicle, such a pattern As I say, until then It will spend for its own use the district council as soon as this law becomes law. The moment of entry into force of this law is the standard 14-day vacathio legis. That's what I'd call it when it comes to issues. General, related to content. If you have any questions, of course I can answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u384	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee has also authorised Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to represent it. Would any of you like to ask such a question? It's all clear. Thank you very much. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Thank you very much. I therefore open the discussion. And the questions? Question? A representative of the government. Oh, questions to the government representative. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u385	Good. I thought the Minister would come to the podium, but I can ask the question in this way. Ask me a question. Minister, first question. As far as I'm concerned, the government supports this bill, right? Well, you haven't made any comments, so I understand there's full support from the government for this bill. My second question concerns the announcement by the Prime Minister of increased road safety. Is legislative work currently underway in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u386	Mr. Senator, I would point out that this is not related to the subject of this bill, so that if it were possible... Maybe in writing. Oh, I'd ask you to answer that second question in writing. Minister, are you the minister... Yeah, yeah. This is just the first one, which is the government's position towards this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government hasn't taken a stand on this. There is no official position, but we, as the MMA, are aware that it is necessary to carry out this change. We're watching senate work very closely. During the committee's work, we tabled 3 amendments, 2 of which were accepted. The third amendment was rejected by the Senate committee after the vote by the local government union, the Polish Towns Association. However, in the parliamentary forum, we will try to persuade Members to take this solution, which the MMA has proposed, into account. With regard to the second question you have asked, we will allow you to provide written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u388	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I don't see any other requests for questions. The government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit. The question is why the amendment proposed by the government was not, I would say, absorbed by the Senate committees. In addition to this protest by local governments or local authorities, there was another question. She went beyond the matter of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. We here, in the Senate, cannot deal with this, we cannot extend the provisions of the law much, which does not mean that at the Seym stage the Minister cannot submit this amendment to the legislation already ready to be dealt with in the Seym. There is no such restriction, but we must stick strictly to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, of course, if we do so within this path. I would also like to make four amendments, which are intended to ensure even more effective collection of this fee, because, as I have said, in this situation, district governments will be placed in quite... maybe not so much awkward but uncomfortable situation, because these voluntary fees will probably be less. In addition, one of these amendments introduces a transitional provision which concerns those persons who received their vehicle between 13 September of the previous year, when the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal entered into force and the date of entry into force of that law. In short, these people have not paid for towing and storing the car, they have taken the car, and on the basis of the rules in force so far, they will not be able to be forced to pay the due fee easily. One of these transitional provisions requires payment of an appropriate fee within 30 days of the date of entry into force of that law. We hope that this provision will in some ways meet the expectations of district governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u390	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted and that the legislative proposal has been submitted in writing by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal of a legislative nature? No. I therefore close the discussion. I request that the committees draw up an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I can't hear the opposition, which means the Senate accepted the motion. The Senate directs this proposal to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. We are going to consider the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea on February 10, 1920 in Puck. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is printed in print No 64 and the report is published in print No 64 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I am very pleased and honoured that on behalf of a group of senators who tabled a draft resolution and also on behalf of the entire Legislative Committee, I can present a unanimous resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea on February 10, 1920 in Puck. High Izbo, for 2 years in various places in Poland we have celebrated the 100th anniversary of the rebirth, the reconstruction of the Polish state after the time of partitions. This independence reached different parts of our homeland at different times, different periods. This did not happen everywhere in 1918. In Pomerania, independence returned in January. February 1920 It started with Golubia-Dobrzynia on 17 January 1920. It was then a border town between the Russian partitions Then the reborn Common Thing And the Prussian army. It was there that the first soldiers entered and began marching, taking over individual villages, cities, municipalities of Pomerania for the benefit of the Republic of Poland. On January 18th, the day later, the army entered Torun and there were great extraordinary celebrations, there was enthusiasm of residents not only Torun, but also other areas of this part of Pomerania, resulting from this extraordinary event. And then the Polish army began marching towards the seashore, so that these eternal dreams would come true for many years, so that the Republic would also take over the coast and find its basis in the Baltic Sea. I would also like to tell you that the commemoration of this historic event in Pomerania has been going on for many days, for many weeks, and its culmination will be on 9 and 10 February this year. Gdansk and Puck. It began with big events, celebrations in Toruń. The voivodship government, as well as NGOs, organized really extraordinary celebrations in which they participated and residents of the region It is the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and the Pomeranian Voivodeship. The celebrations are also held in many other cities, villages and also in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. I just wanted to talk about these celebrations, but I don't want to talk about all this historical event here today, about this aspect of how Pomerania was returning to Poland. I want to read it. 'Cause that's probably the best part of this draft resolution. And that's what I'm gonna do right now. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea on February 10, 1920 in Puck. In 1772, the Council adopted Gdansk Pomerania within the first partition of Poland was plundered by Prussia. Graduation of the Pomerania for the Falling And the Republic was not only another political blow, but also a further economic handicap. A significant part of its territory was deprived of the natural possibility of trade in water transport via the Vistula to Gdansk. The latter, incorporated into Prussia in 1793, without direct access to Polish facilities, lost the best chances of development, profits and significance. It was known by his people back then, and that's why they were defending themselves against taking their city by Prussia. When this happened, Gdansk became a provincial center in the east of the German empire. On the other hand, it became an important centre of the region, also for the Polish community, including the activities of the Polish national movement and the Kashubian regional movement. Dreams about Poland, although not politically present then, were passed down from generation to generation. The sense of bond with Poland strengthened a brief episode of Napoleonic wars when the French troops and the accompanying legions of General Henryk Dąbrowski in 1807 defeated Prussia, entered Pomerania, occupied Gdansk, which became a Free City for several years. Later, an attempt to induce an armed insurrection should be mentioned, the most famous part of which was the attack of 1846 on the Prussian garrison in Starogard Gdansk under the leadership of Florian Ceynowy, called the father of Kashubian regionalism. In the situation of the Prussian partition, the most effective form of resistance turned out to be the self-organization of the Polish society, which went into history as organic work. This activity continued despite the repression of the possessor. Franciszek Pepliński, called the Kashubian Dzymała, when the Prussian authorities did not allow him to build a house, lived in a Gypsy car, and the resistance to the killer paid for the loss of health and wealth. When the authorities banned the teachings of religion in Polish, the students launched a strike in 1906 and 1907 despite the application of physical penalties and repression against their parents. The Polish national movement in Pomerania also received strong support from the indigenous inhabitants of the region, Kaszubów. Their most outstanding leader from the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, Alexander Majkowski, led to the formation of the Youngishub Society in 1912, whose basic political and cultural slogan at that time was Kashubian, it is Polish. As a result, after the Germans lost World War I, even the German authorities and society were surprised by the power of the Polish national movement in Pomerania, the real threat of separating this province and joining it to the reborn Poland. This was sought by the local Poles and Kaszubi, in legal rallies and petitions, and in conspiracy preparations for possible armed uprising and takeover of power by the Republic. The legend was passed by the attitude of the local folk stand, Anthony Abraham, who, on behalf of the Polish and Kashubian community, had at the conference in Versailles to demand Pomerania joining Poland. These actions contributed to the achievement of one of the goals of the victorious powers in the First World War, the reactivation of the Polish state with access to the sea, which found its legal and factual expression in the Treaty of Versailles. On its basis the army of the reborn Republic under the command of General Józef Haller in January 1920 began taking over the Polish power over Pomerania, welcomed enthusiastically in every Pomeranian town by Poles and Kaszubs. This process ended with a grand symbolic celebration of February 10, 1920 in Puck, the Weddings of Poland with the Sea. These events meant the real return of Poland to the Baltic Sea, allowed free trade of the reborn Republic, its independent economic development, the implementation of the largest investment of the Polish interwar, the construction of the port and the city of Gdynia, as well as the protection against Germanization of the local Slavic population. These were difficult times, often dramatic for Pomerania and Kashubians. On the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, he pays tribute to all those who worked for the Polishness of Pomerania from 1772 to 10 February 1920 to realize the dream of generations Pomerania has returned to the borders of the Republic of Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u392	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have just authorized Senator Kazimierz Kleina to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... Oh, Senator Danuta Jazlowiecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u393	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you if you're planning any celebrations for this holiday here in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! High Izbo! According to the conclusions of the meeting of the Legislative Commission, a small conference or seminar should be organised to bring Pomerania's history and its complicated fates to the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. A conference like this, I think, will take place shortly, I'm sure of it. I've already talked to the right people about organizing this in the near future right here in the Senate. In turn the main celebrations are held at this moment in many towns in Pomerania, as I said, from Toruń to Władysławowo, Hel and Gdańsk. And these main ones, connected with the date of the wedding, will be held on February 9, 10th in Gdańsk and Puck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u395	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski signed up for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first of all like to thank the applicants for this project. I would like to say what the rapporteur did not mention, that at some point, when we were working on a text revised in relation to the original submission, we were working in a consensus, because during the committee meeting amendments were tabled and those amendments were accepted by the senator, in this case Senator Kleina, too. The design of this resolution is a bit unusual for our senate projects, because it points to a very wide historical space of events that concerned the history of Poland and the history of Pomerania. From the 18th century to the 20th century, the applicants explained that it was necessary to understand these perturbations and these changing turns of fate, often dramatic, which these lands met. This construction caused that the marriage act itself, which took place on February 10, was actually spelled out in one sentence, without any description of the wider event. And this was a part of the discussion at the committee meeting. Well, I would like to throw in two thoughts so that the transcript of this meeting sounds like we discussed it. Because maybe not everyone is aware of what the marriage act itself was all about. It is also about a historical context, which is also not included in the draft resolution, but which is important for its understanding. Well, on January 8, 1918, President Woodrow Wilson issued a message to Congress about the war that was at that time. In item 13 of this message there was a record that independent Poland would be created with access to the sea. Such a record was, then, all the perturbations associated with it, as Poland had come to have this access to the sea integrally in the territory of the Republic of Poland... There were 2 concepts about which part of the Baltic would be assigned to the territory of the Republic of Poland. As I remember, there was an idea to separate this access to the sea from Eastern Prussia and through the Pomerania of Gdańsk. Finally, as we know, the Gdansk Pomerania option won. And the other thing. The marriage act itself consisted in the fact that on February 10th, a delegation from General Józef Haller, then Minister of Interior Stanisław Wojciechowski and representatives of the voivodship authorities arrived in Puck. And there was a festive service during which... Mr. Senator, five more minutes. I'll watch the time. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, I know the time format, and I promise you I'll be done even sooner than five minutes. Please, please... On February 10th, the Holy Mass took place, during which the consecration of the Polish flag was made, which was solemnly pulled onto the mast. Former cannon salves and General Józef Haller threw 2 platinum rings into the sea funded by Poles from Gdańsk. It was that historic moment of the wedding. I'm not describing the whole ceremony because of course it was more extensive. By the way, on February 10, 1920, so nearly 100 years ago, Puck's Bay was iced. That's how it happened. Ice-cuffed? Yes, sir. Imagine that at the beginning of the 20th century, this was what it looked like. In order to clarify this description, I wanted to add it, and I'm done here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u397	Thank you very much, Senator, for this beautiful description. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The Senate could now proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution, but this third reading would only cover the vote and will therefore be conducted together with other votes. Now messages will be read.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u398	Mr. Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like a moment of focus, please. Information on individual committees. As soon as the adjournment is announced, the following committee meetings will be held. A meeting of the Environment Commission on the examination of applications submitted to the Act amending the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws will be held in Room 182. Immediately after the adjournment, a joint meeting will be held between the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the fourth Senate meeting to the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. Immediately after the announcement of the break, a joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration will be held on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws in Room 176. Immediately after this meeting, only the Committee on Infrastructure will hold a meeting in Room 179 on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Construction Law and certain other laws and on the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation and Renovation. Then 20 minutes after... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...the adjournment will be held at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Infrastructure Committee and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted at the fourth Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Road Traffic Law in Room 217. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 10 minutes after the adjournment will be announced, a meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration will be held on the examination of proposals submitted during the debate for the Law amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws in Room 176. 15 minutes after the announcement of the break will take place... [[Talking in the O.R.]] How do you figure all this stuff out? One thing at a time, I sort it all out. ... Meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection and to the Plant Protection Act against pests in Room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u399	In connection with... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Senator, I've been thinking. Could you repeat that, please? That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the members of several committees need to meet, I am announcing a recess until 8:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 38 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u400	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that the next fifth meeting is scheduled for 25, 26 and 27 February 2020. This meeting will begin on Tuesday 25 February at 3 p.m. The agenda will be provided to you by electronic means, but it can already be announced that it will focus on budget issues. I would also like to inform you that the Senior Convention has changed the time limit for the sixth Senate meeting. Oh, Jesus! This meeting will take place on 12 and 13 March 2020, i.e. Thursdays and Fridays, and not Fridays, as was previously planned. March 11 and 12, Wednesday and Thursday. The shift is one day. We return to the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested that the bill be rejected; Senate print No 35 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Let me remind you that the draft resolution is about rejecting the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 97 senators, 51 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. We return to the third item on the agenda: the Act on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act, while a minority of committees submitted a proposal for adoption of the Act without amendments. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the request of the minority of the committee to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this request is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 45 votes against, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Attention, amendments 1, 5, 6 and 7 should be voted on together. These amendments are intended to clarify the terminology for the scope of this law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? The votes were 97 senators, 51 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] The amendments have been accepted. Attention, amendments 2 and 3 should be voted on together. Amendments 2 and 3 aim to clarify terminology and correct drafting of the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] The amendments have been accepted. Attention, amendments 4 and 8 should be voted on together. Amendments 4 and 8 aim to exclude the financing of an additional annual benefit from the Solidarity Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] The amendments have been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, no one opposed, 45 abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 37 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the Senate Act No 52 A. A minority of the Health Committee has requested the adoption of a law without amendment. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if it is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the Health Committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 60 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission, having read the amendments tabled in plenary and the committee meeting, recommends that amendments be adopted, with the exception of Amendment 7, which was withdrawn by Senators Kazimierz Kleina and Leszek Czarnobaj. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u402	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Kazimierz Klein and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Krzysztof Mróz was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. When any requests were withdrawn... I would remind you that in this case we are dealing with this because the Senators Leszek Czarnobaj and Kazimierz Kleina withdrew their application in the Pkt. II pkt 7 in print no. 60 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the request of minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, no one was in favour, 97 were against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] The motion was rejected. In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to ensure that the budget of the Minister responsible for Education and Education for Teachers is allocated to the level set out in the Teacher's Charter and based on the basic amount in force on 1 January 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 2 aims to ensure that the budget of the Minister responsible for Education and Education for Teacher Awards for their educational achievements is allocated to the budget as set out in the Teacher's Charter and based on the basic amount in force on 1 January 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 96 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 3 results in a partial unfreeze of the write-down to the occupational welfare fund for teachers by applying the basic amount in force on 1 January 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 4 aims to compensate for teacher increases based on a new base amount from 1 January and not from 1 September 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 5 makes the funds of the Fund the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers can only be spent for the purposes for which the Fund was created. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 6 aims to maintain parliamentary control over the transfer by the Minister responsible for public finances and the Minister for National Defence of expenditure planned in part Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 7, as I recall, has been withdrawn. Amendment 8 makes it possible to increase the provision of the educational part of the general subsidy by PLN 50 million from the special reserve of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 9 defrosts the write-down to the social benefit fund and makes this write-down to be determined on the basis of the principles of the Act on the social benefit fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I say 97 senators voted, 97 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 61 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u403	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, 29 amendments were tabled, 5 were excluded as a result of previous votes on other amendments. The Commission supported the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u404	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senators Bogdan Klich, Marek Pęk, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Marek Komorowski and Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz was the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 9, 28 and 25 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 10, 11, 26 and 27. Amendments 1, 9, 25 and 28 aim to eliminate provisions that ensure that the Minister for Economic Affairs can create positions, departments or task forces operating in the structure of foreign offices, i.e. the so-called. economic diplomacy, and also remove from the act an inter-temporal provision laying down rules for the transfer of workers between the offices serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and the Minister competent for the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, no one was in favour, 46, 51 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 2 seeks to ensure a proper relationship between the departments of construction, planning and land-use and housing and the Climate in respect of the matters covered. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 45 were in favour, 2 against, 50 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 1 against, 50 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was accepted. Attention, Amendment 4 will rule out voting on Amendment 5. Amendment No 4 aims to eliminate the provision authorising the President of the Council of Ministers to specify in the Regulation the permanent representation of the Republic of Poland to the European Union and the rules for the appointment of persons in this representation and for management positions in foreign offices of the Republic of Poland in the Member States of the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, no one was in favour, 45 against, 52 senators abstained. [[Voting No 22]] The amendment was rejected. On Amendment 5, let me remind you, there will be no vote because... No, it will be. It will be. Oh, excuse me, I'm pouring ash on my head. Amendment 5 deletes the provision... I'd better not. I've been waiting for this comment, Mr. Senator, I've missed it. Amendment 5 deletes the provision making the apparent amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 45 were in favour, 2 against, 50 senators abstained. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 sets out the procedure for the declaration by the Minister responsible for State assets of opposition to the decision of the founding body to liquidate the State enterprise. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 46 were in favour, no one opposed, 51 senators abstained. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 Senators voted, 48 in favour, no one opposed, 49 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 maintains the principle that it is the voivode who appoints representatives of science or non-governmental organisations to the supervisory board of the voivodship fund for environmental protection and water management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Amendment 9... She's already been there. ...was already voted with the amendment... [[Voice from the room: Results.]] What, what? [[Voice in the Chamber: Results of the vote.]] Sorry, I didn't get the results. Ninety-seven senators voted... We're talking about Amendment 8. 97 senators voted, 46 votes against, 1 against, 50 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 9 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 1, 25 and 28. Amendment 10 states that in the Foreign Service Act the concept of economic diplomacy will be used in the sense given to it by the Government Departments Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 97 senators voted, 45 for, no one against, 52 senators abstained. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 48 in favour, no one opposed, 49 senators abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 12 adapts the terminology of the amended provision to the Government Departments Act on the names of government departments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 46. in favour, no one opposed, 51 senators abstained. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 adapts the terminology of the amended provision to the Government Departments Act on the names of government departments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 46. in favour, no one voted against, 51 abstained. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Aye, aye, aye, aye, I state that 97 senators voted, 48. in favour, no one voted against, 49 abstained. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 eliminates the change, following which the public task of Polish aid and Poles abroad will also be carried out by the President of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 6. in favour, 39 against, 52 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 16 harmonises in the related provisions authorising the form of participation in the regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 46. in favour, no one voted against, 51 abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 17 takes account of the fact that the European Union has existed since 1 December 2009 and not the European Community. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Against the Union. No, no, no, no, no, I find that 97 senators voted, 50. in favour, no one voted against, 47 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 18 aims to clarify the relationship between the provisions of the European Affairs Committee Act on the composition of the committee and to adopt the principle that the chairman of the committee is a minister competent for the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that 97 senators voted, 45. in favour, no one voted against, 52 abstained. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 19 seeks to take into account in the provision amending the existing provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 45. in favour, no one voted against, 52 abstained. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was accepted. Attention, amendments 20, 22 and 29 must be voted in total. Amendments 20, 22 and 29 correlate the bill under review with the Act of 9 January 2020 amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws which postpone the date of entry into force of the provisions of a simple public limited company on 1 March 2021. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Correction number... Sorry, 97 senators voted, 45 for, no one voted against, 52 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 21 adapts the reference in the unamended provision of the Law on State Property Management to the changes made by the law under consideration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 46. in favour, no one voted against, 51 abstained. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was accepted. I would remind you that Amendment 22 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendments 20 and 29. Amendment 23 eliminates non-normative terms. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted, 47 were in favour, no one opposed, 50 senators abstained. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 24 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jazłowiecka... I'm sorry. Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 46 were in favour, no one opposed, 51 senators abstained. [[Voting No 40]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 25 was voted on, including Amendments 1, 9 and 28. Amendment 26 aligns the terminology of the transitional provision with that of the Labour Exemption Act in the case of sickness and maternity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 46 were in favour, no one opposed, 51 senators abstained. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 27 clarifies the transitional provision, stating explicitly that it refers only to persons who perform tasks within departments and teams under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 45 were in favour, no one opposed, 52 senators abstained. [[Voting No 42]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 28 has already been voted in total... The same is true of Amendment 29, which was voted on together with Amendments 20 and 22. This is the end of the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, in favour of 45, against 52 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] As a result of the vote, the Senate has passed a resolution... He didn't. He made a resolution only by rejecting the bill. No, no, no. He hasn't adopted a resolution. Well? Now, Mr. Marshal, we can apply the article. 54... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a formal motion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, formal motion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I inform the senators that according to the article. 54 (5) in the absence of a resolution, the Senate may refer the law to the relevant committees for review. Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a formal motion. Oh, I'm so sorry. I haven't seen your senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u405	Mr. Marshal, in accordance with the rules of procedure, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This request is inadmissible. If we'd rejected all the amendments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Only if all the amendments were rejected in the vote... And here we've accepted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...only in case of rejection of all amendments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We've almost all accepted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So we have to go back to the committee... Yeah, that's a vote: for the committee... Yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Wind, do the explanations of the legislators satisfy you? Of course, yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'm requesting a reassignment to the public finance committee... Not to finance... No, to self-government... To the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u407	Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u408	Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a counterclaim. We are in the middle of a third reading, I remind you, amendments have been accepted, and some of the amendments have also been... Just maybe... 'Cause it's so weird... I don't know if I should report to Mr. Borowski or to your marshal. 'Cause it's so weird behind your back. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] He's also a marshal. Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, because yes... It's so good not to be behind the marshal's back. Mr. Marshal, as we are in the middle of a vote, this situation is... The referral to the committee at this point is meant to serve... why? Does that mean... Mr. Senator... But wait a minute, let me finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u409	Mr. Senator, we're not in the middle of a vote anymore. The votes have been completed. We haven't made a resolution. Therefore, the senator has filed a motion to refer the bill to the committee. You've filed a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u410	But explain to me... And that's what the vote's gonna be about. ...one case. If we refer the bill to the committee again, will it therefore be possible to submit further amendments and proposals at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u411	Of course. Of course. Since there are two proposals, I am voting... But, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. I am convinced that this proposal is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Paragraph... Art. 54 (1) (a) 5 makes it clear: In the absence of a resolution, the Senate may refer the bill to the relevant committees for review. And this item is being discussed. The senator has filed a motion for referral to the committee, Senator Skurkiewicz has filed an objection. And in my opinion, further discussion is pointless. One sentence. It's just about... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u412	Mr Marshal, to complete my proposal, I would like to draw your attention to one point: That the High House decides at this point, in agreement with the senator's motion, that the bill will go directly to the President's desk because it will pass! The Constitutional term which gives the Constitutional Law to the Senate's review of the Law. The Senate is required to consider the law proposed by the Sejm within a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u413	Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, thank you for your concern about punctuality. However, in this case, the deadline is 23 February, and the committee may meet immediately after the end of the votes, before the formal closing of the session. So that I appreciate your concern, but I don't think it's entirely justified. Is the senator holding up his counterclaim? Yes. Then I'm in charge of the vote. Who's in favour of passing the bill back to the committee responsible... But, Mr. Marshal, I am on a formal matter. Because the marshal after the vote... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's already a vote. There's a vote now, Mr. Senator. Who's in favor of being handed over to the committee? [[Talking in the O.R.]] When's the Senate meeting? Today. Who's against it? The sitting's till tomorrow. Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted in favour of referring to the committee 51, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] The motion has been accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Commission will be convened within the time limit to be stated in the Communication... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...tonight. Today's announcement or today's committee? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the end of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 38 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u414	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees unanimously recommend that all amendments tabled be adopted. The government side was also in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u415	Thank you very much. Do the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, or do Senator Alexander Pociej, as Senator, still want to speak? No, thank you. Thank you very much. So we proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to maintain the existing definition of a civil case by transferring the provisions governing the scope of the intellectual property case to the appropriate chapter of the amended law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour, no one was. against or abstained from voting. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 2 eliminates a reference that is unnecessary and at the same time raises doubts About your precision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 3... The adoption of Amendment 3 will exclude the vote on Amendment 4. Amendment 3 introduces, on the basis of 2 procedural provisions, terminology which takes into account their applicability both at the pre-trial stage and during the process. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 5 seeks to give intellectual property courts greater flexibility in the formulation of the provisions so that the obligation to provide information is better adapted to the scope of copyright law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 6 is intended to reflect in the provision of its actual relationship with the earlier provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ninety-seven senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 7 seeks a more precise expression of the circumstances determining the need for a confidential hearing by the court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted. It was 97, no one held back or opposed. [[Voting No 50]] Attention, Amendment 8 will rule out voting on Amendment 9. Amendment 8 removes a provision the content of which may give rise to doubts as regards the rules applicable to the recovery of material claims by creators and collecting societies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Attention, amendments 10 and 20 should be voted on together. Amendments 10 and 20 correlate the provisions on intellectual property proceedings and the Industrial Property Law, which refer to the information claim, eliminating the time gap in the obligation of the provisions on industrial property rights. Amendment 17 further aligns the Law on judicial costs in civil matters with those amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 11 complements the amendment to the necessary amendment of the regulation, which sets out the grounds for the refusal of assistance or termination of the power of attorney by the patent attorney. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 12 eliminates the non-essential transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ninety-seven senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 13 corrects the technical error which prevented the amendment of the relevant provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 14 is intended to apply in a provision amending the appropriate legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted. It was 97, no one was against, no one stopped. [[Voting No 56]] Attention, amendments 15, 18 and 23 should be voted on together. Amendments 15, 18 and 23 seek to take into account in the current law. Public procurement law and the law replacing it, the new date of entry into force of the provisions of a simple public limited liability company. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Attention, amendments 16, 19 and 24 should be voted on together. These amendments shall be made in time In a manner consistent with the intention of the legislator, subsequent amendments to the article. 67 §1 of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 17 deletes the amendment of the no longer existing provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 21 corrects too wide a reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 22 aims at a more synthetic regulation of inter-temporary matters. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] After voting on all the amendments, we will proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, as all senators voted in favour. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 39 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u416	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law without amendments was not supported by the majority and the proposal for an amendment to be put to the vote was supported by the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u417	Thank you very much, senator. Do the Senator or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz submitted his conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk was the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 45 against, 52 against. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment seeks to maintain the provision under which the voivode is to initiate ex officio proceedings for the confirmation of the acquisition by the municipalities of property which became their property by law and which were not included in the inventory lists submitted to the voivodeship by 31 December 2005. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 64]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that the senator hasn't voted yet... I didn't get it in here... Now. The vote is over. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 53 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has examined the proposals submitted during the discussion and proposes that the law be adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u419	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Anthony the Husband, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority asks for 13 amendments to the contested law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u421	Thank you very much. Does Senator Antoni the Man still want to speak as an applicant? No, thank you. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, 45 were against, 50 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the results of the vote, we are voting on the amendments tabled in the light of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendment. Amendment 1 modifies the drafting of the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 55 votes against, 41 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 clearly indicates the entity required to store the evidence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 eliminates the wording of the provisions by stressing that statutory obligations should be performed free of charge. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 70]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 5 clarifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] The amendment was accepted. Note that the adoption of Amendment 6 will result in an appropriate modification of Amendments 7 and 8. Amendment 6 deletes the provision introducing the legal fiction of effective service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 95 senators voted, 51 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 73]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 transfers competence to manage the destruction of things from the provincial inspectors to the court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 94 senators voted, 52 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 provides for the terminology of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 9 abolishes the immediate feasibility of decisions imposing administrative penalties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 76]] Note that the adoption of Amendment 10 will result in an appropriate modification of Amendment 11. Amendment 10 introduces a bail-back mechanism where the proceedings have not ended with an administrative penalty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 52 votes against, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 77]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 provides for the terminology of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 12 eliminates from the wording of the rule the standard resulting from the Code of Administrative Procedure and improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 79]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 introduces vacathio legis for repressive provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 52 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 80]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Plant Protection Act against pests. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print 54 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission has examined the requests made during the discussion and proposes that the law be adopted without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u423	Thank you very much, senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Anthony the Husband, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. Senator Man was the applicant for these applications.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A minority of the Committee on Agriculture tabled 15 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u425	We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 44 votes against, 50 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Attention, amendments 1, 2 and 10 should be voted on together. Can you read faster? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Amendments 1, 2 and 10 eliminate provisions that remind us of the obligation to apply regulations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Does that satisfy you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you don't vote, we won't make it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 83]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 3 completes the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 84]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4 and 5 should be voted on together. These amendments correctly introduce into the legal system standards resulting from international phytosanitary standards. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 52. for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 85]] Correction number... I state that the amendments have been accepted. Amendment 6 improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 86]] Attention, amendments 7, 8 and 9 should be voted on together. They correct punctuation errors. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 87]] Attention, amendments 11 and 14 should be voted on together. These amendments change the liability regime for failure to take decisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 52. for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 88]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 12 eliminates from the wording the standard resulting from the Public Finance Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 52. for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 89]] Amendment 13 makes the obligation to pay the administrative penalty conditional on the final termination of the procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Elephant? No. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 90]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 introduces vacathio legis for repressive provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 91]] The amendment was accepted. We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Plant Protection Act against pests. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 93]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Commercial Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 55 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After considering the amendments tabled in the Plenary Chamber and considering them by the Infrastructure Committee, I would like to ask the High Commission In accordance with the votes held in committee . to accept all amendments. At the same time, I would like to inform you that Amendments 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 15, 18, 20 and 32 have been withdrawn by me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo! And, of course, I'm asking for the bill to be adopted along with the amendments. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u427	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet... Senator Artur Dunin and Senator Władysław Komarnicki submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, the committee's rapporteur was Senator Artur Dunin. I would remind you that Senator Artur Dunin withdrew his conclusions in points 2, 4, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19 and 21 to 31 in print No 55 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u428	Mr. Marshal, stand by. Would you like to specify which one? All the marshals you mentioned. All of them, all of them. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u429	Excuse me? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, okay, okay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This proposal will be put to the vote in accordance with the order of the law in the light of the Senator's maintenance of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... Amendment 1 amends the scope of obtaining derogations from technical and construction regulations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Arthur, Arthur... in the case of your withdrawn amendments, shall we vote against? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, with 1 abstention. [[Voting No 94]] The amendment was accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Attention, Amendment 2, 4, 6... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please focus, we have a lot of votes. Amendments 2, 4, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19 and 21 [[Talking in the O.R.]] We will hold this vote because they have been sustained. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 8 and 11. These amendments... Unless the senator wants me to read all the numbers again? Yes. They rely on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...relysing from the division of the construction project into 3 documents: land or land development project, architectural and construction project and technical design. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, no one was in favour, 94 were against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 95]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 3 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 96]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 is the consequence of changes made to the construction law in the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 97]] The amendment was accepted. Attention, amendments 8, 9 and 11 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to eliminate from the market construction projects which do not meet the basic requirements set out in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 construction law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 56 votes against, 39 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 10 seeks to ensure that a copy of the decision to grant the designer or designer checking the building rights of the relevant specialty does not have to be confirmed for compliance with the original by the designer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 52 votes against, 41 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 99]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 introduces the possibility of establishing a technical project in electronic form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 40 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 100]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 18 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 13 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 101]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 20 introduces an additional condition on which the initiation of a simplified legalisation procedure is conditional on the compatibility of the construction with the local spatial planning plan or the decision on the construction conditions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 42 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 102]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 32 excludes simplified legalisation of construction self-reliantly in the area of family gardens. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 64 votes against, 28 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 103]] Voting on a resolution. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 104]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 58 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Infrastructure recommends adopting the only amendment and adopting the entire law together with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u431	Does Senator Dunin still want to speak as Senator of the applicant? No, thank you. Thank you very much. Which amendment? There's two corrections here. So we proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendment 2. Amendment 1 extends e.g. about the premises which are in the resources of the social housing associations a catalogue of premises whose renovation entitles to a renovation premium by the local government unit or a company which is 100% owned by the local government. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, no one opposed, 43 abstentions. [[Voting No 105]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 will therefore not be put to the vote. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 106]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. We are returning to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 59 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal to adopt the law without amendments was not supported by a majority of committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u433	Thank you very much, senator. So we proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if it is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Environment Committee to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 95 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 107]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Public Finance Act. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 31 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Janusz Gromek to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 95 senators voted, 58 for, 1 against, 36 abstentions. [[Voting No 108]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Public Finance Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Janusz Gromek to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 42 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Jackowski? You can't put pressure on the senator... Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 59 votes against, 3 against, 33 abstentions. [[Voting No 109]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print no. 43 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The three committees together recommend that the High House adopt all 4 amendments and drafts together with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u435	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? During the second reading, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński submitted legislative proposals. At present, can senators submit no more than a minute of query to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted? Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, in the order of the text, in print No 43 X and then in the adoption of the draft, in print No 43 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Attention, amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. These amendments shall include in the confirmation of the vehicle's release from the parking lot a statement by the owner of the vehicle that he is aware of the criminal liability for lodging a false declaration if he provides false data, such as the name and address, necessary for issuing the enforcement title in the administrative execution, initiated when the storage charge is not paid within the time limit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal Blanket... Please state the results of the vote. I state that 95 senators voted, 94 were in favour, no one voted against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 110]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 is intended to allow interest to be collected on the storage charge of the vehicle in the parking lot if it has not been paid within the time limit and to introduce a limitation period for the obligation to pay that fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 111]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 introduces a transitional provision in the draft, on the basis of which the owner of the vehicle which was removed from the parking lot without payment of a fee before the date of entry into force of the provision shall pay that fee within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 112]] The amendment was accepted. We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We proceed to vote on the draft law in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and to adopt a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 113]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on road traffic and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea on February 10, 1920 in Puck. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the matter was presented before the session was interrupted and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 64 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Ambrozik, Mr. Senator Bierecki... Please state the results of the vote. I state that 94 senators voted, 94 were in favour, 0 against, 0 abstentions. [[Voting No 114]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Polish Wedding with the Sea on February 10, 1920 in Puck. I declare... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] I'm declaring an hour's recess... But why... I'm declaring an hour's break. Please state your messages... But I'm gonna make a formal conclusion... After your break, the senator will have the opportunity... But not after the break, Mr. Marshal, because it's related to the break just now. I would like to ask you to clarify one key point. You'll file your motion after an hour's break. Please state your messages. Why? Why? But, Mr. Marshal, the senator applied earlier than your Marshal announced a recess. Excuse me, formal motion... Absolutely! Mr. Marshal, a formal motion is a formal conclusion. How can you say that after the break...? But, Mr. Marshal... How can you say that? ...the application was filed after I announced a break. No, no! No! Mr. Marshal, don't make jokes. You can't do that, no. Mr. Marshal is selective about the formal proposals. A formal motion will be given to the senator after the break. But, Mr. Marshal... But it has something to do with... You didn't announce a break. You haven't given me an hour... It has to do with what's gonna happen next. And it's in the well-understood interest of your marshal. Trust me. Mr. Marshal's business is... I'm serious. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In view of... Okay, don't ask him, don't ask him. In the face of my soft heart, I'm allowing you to file a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u436	Mr. Marshal, in fact, based on an article. 48 (1) (a) I would like to make a request for a break and a call, during a break, by your Marshal of the Senior Convention. What do you mean? This is due to the fact that some kind of abuse of the rules and misunderstandings occurred during the vote on the Law on administrative departments. I would like to use the transcript of what happened during the vote and to eat the words of the Marshal of the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, the marshal... I'll read a fragment, if you don't mind. I find that 97 senators voted in favour of 45 against 52 abstentions. As a result of the vote, I find that the Senate has passed a resolution... Periods. Mr. Marshal's approval continued. Only by rejecting the law. Question: No? And then... And then pressure, then pressure. Silence. And then the Marshal informs: "I inform the senators that in accordance with Article. 54 (5) in the absence of a resolution, the Senate may refer the law to the relevant committees for review. You didn't say there was... Has the Senate passed a resolution or has it not passed a resolution? You said he did. It was the Marshal's statement that he had passed a resolution. He's passed a resolution! So I expect him to stay... Mr. Marshal has taken... [[Senator Boris-Damięcka:...]] ...the convent of the Senior Convention and this matter will be settled. But it was... And this is in the well-understood interest of Mr Marshal, for the sake of legislative clarity, the legislative process that is taking place in the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u437	Mr. Senator, I accept your request. I'm declaring an hour's break. I'm asking the Senior Convention to go to my office. After the senior convention is over... But in the meantime, maybe the committee... Are you the Senate Marshal? At the end of the Senior Convention, a committee will be convened. The senator will read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u438	Meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the review of the Act amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws, Senate printing No. 61, will take place immediately after... What's that again? Mr. Marshal, once again, a formal remark... ...the senior convention in the hall... This announcement should not take place until the verdict is delivered by the Senior Convention, because we do not know what will be the outcome of the Senior Convention, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u439	You're wrong. The Commission has the right to meet whenever it wants, and can wait for the decision of the Senior Convention. As if you were listening to me, and with that number of votes, I had the right to rephrase, so you'd know that I said that the committee would meet after the senior convention is over. Thank you. I'm declaring an hour's break. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 46 to 23 minutes 46]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. Let me remind you that according to the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate The High Senate passed the law for review by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I would like to remind you that the text of the Act is contained in print 61 and that the committee's report again In print No 61 A2. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Departments was addressed to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration by the Commission. A motion was made to reject the law in its entirety and was supported by a majority of the members of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u441	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u442	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Following the committee meeting, we could see that the senators of the committee had no opportunity to submit other proposals or amendments, nor did the representative of the government have the opportunity to speak on this issue. Therefore, my question is: does the senator think that the course of the sitting itself was in line with the parliamentary custom and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u443	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u444	Mr. Senator, there's been a motion for 23 amendments to this bill. He was to be submitted as a minority request after voting for the rejection of the bill, but two senators supporting the proposal are needed to submit a minority application. There was no PiS. There were no two senators and this proposal was therefore not put to the vote. No one else, despite the question asked about the willingness to speak, came forward for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u445	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you'll have to fly after the bonus. Are they... Mr. Marshal... Yes? Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u446	Since Senator Skurkiewicz was just talking about what was going on at the committee meeting, I would like to ask if Mr Skurkiewicz was present at the committee meeting. There's a transmission. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u447	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u448	It's not the rules, but I'll answer Mr. Borowski. But that question was for me. We live in the 21st century and there is also a television broadcast...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u449	But wait, wait... Tell me the truth! Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, I'm sticking to Mr. Marshal Karczewski's school here. This is not a discussion, and the question was addressed to the rapporteur's senator and concerned the course of the committee meeting. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u450	I did not notice the presence of Senator Skurkiewicz at the committee meeting that had recently ended. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm in corrigendum mode, as my name was mentioned... Ad vocem? Absolutely. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Corrections. Corrections. There you go. Corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u452	I would like to draw the attention of the High House, and especially of Senator Borowski, to the fact that it is possible to attend the committee in an active and passive manner. We live in the 21st century and so many millions of zlotys spend the Senate Office on... Fake news. ...a variety of TV connections and not only that you can also watch the committee sitting on your tablet, which is probably not unusual for you. Fake news. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u453	I call on you to focus. We're voting. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Senator Frankiewicz. I would remind you that this bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, somewhat induced here by your senator, Minister Skurkiewicz, have to make a statement above all that I appeal to the High House to reject the motion to reject this law in its entirety and to adopt this law with amendments which I know you intend to make to Senator Komorowski. These are the 23 amendments that you have already mentioned to the President. These are the amendments that were already discussed at the committee meeting and adopted by the High House in the previous vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u455	Thank you very much. Thank you. More questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. You're a senator. You're welcome, Senator. Just to remind you, it's worth signing up early. It's a first-year... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Not from this side. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As it has been said in part here, the Minister mentioned this, and you also mentioned the chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I would like to make 23 amendments. These are the amendments that... about two hours ago the High House accepted them all. There are no other new amendments to this bill. These are amendments which, firstly, were discussed at two committee meetings and, secondly, were discussed and voted at the meeting of the High House. And that's actually what I have to say. These are, once again, these 23 amendments. And I'm filing for their admission. I don't know...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u457	Thank you very much. It's signed. Signed. Maybe everyone will sign... As I understand it, the senator is aware that there will be another committee meeting. Of course, he's aware. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. I suggest a fellow senator has his vote. I don't think he needs lawyers. Senator Frankiewicz signed up for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will consistently file a motion to reject this law in its entirety. Since this atmosphere of senate seriousness has already relaxed a little bit here, I will remind you of what this proposal is all about. Namely, many amendments were quite serious in order to correct this bill, because it has very many errors. The correction was almost 30. But one of them is critically important to the Senate. It concerns the competences associated with Polonia, which the Polish Senate has been dealing with for a very long time. Behind this change... It is probably the intention of the rulers to collect part of the money for the Polish Senate. And that's why we're against this bill. That's why I'm filing a motion to reject it in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's a shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u459	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Marek Komorowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes. Minister Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, I will only confine myself to the legislative proposals put forward by the senators. There are two possibilities at this point. The first is that the motion to reject the law in its entirety will be accepted. Then the bill will go to the Sejm and, as one might suppose, in connection with the political arithmetic that this House has, it will be rejected. But what's he saying? You're not a prophet. The second possibility is that we will not waste this acquis, which we have developed here together with the senators of all options and together with the employees of the Legislative Office, we will accept these amendments and with these amendments we will refer this law to further work in the Sejm. I repeat: if anyone does not like the change that Mr Frankiewicz was talking about here... I will not agree with this, of course, but I will in some way understand if the amendment deleting this change is voted out by a majority in this House. This will be understandable to me and consistent with political logic. However, I absolutely do not understand the grounds for rejecting the entire bill. Please accept the explanation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u461	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held immediately after the interruption. I'm declaring a 35-minute recess. I'll meet you at midnight, Mr. Marshal. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u462	I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted during the re-debate on the Law on the amendment of the Government Departments and some other laws will take place 10 minutes after the adjournment in room 176 has been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u463	Because of my inherent complacency, I'm shortening my interval to 30 minutes. I'm declaring a recess. [[Adjournment from 23 minutes 58 to 00 minutes 36]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 61 Z2. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two proposals were submitted to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The further rejection of the law in its entirety was supported by a majority of committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u465	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. You have reached conclusions during the discussion by Senator Marek Komorowski and Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 93 senators voted, 51 against, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 115]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. The Senate turned down the bill. It's all success. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the fourth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters involving the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Adam Szejnfeld. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Adam Szejnfeld, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u466	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am making a statement that I am sending to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The statement concerns the implementation of investments in the construction of the S11 expressway and the necessary bypasses on this route, including the Piła ring road Okay, okay, okay, okay, In view of the concerns of residents and authorities of cities, municipalities, powiats and voivodships, as well as users of the national road S11 and the position of the Association of Municipalities, Powiatów and Voivodships, the S11 road, I appeal to the Prime Minister to take the necessary steps to introduce the nearest investments in the area of the national expressway infrastructure S11 and to build the necessary bypasses on this route, including the Piła ring road Okay, okay, okay, okay, The implementation of the S11 national road was introduced into the National Roads Programme for the period 2014 to 2023 in July 2015. Unfortunately, after the election, it turned out that much of the previously planned investments for unknown reasons were not included in the list of key projects of the current government. This undermines citizens' confidence in the state and undermines their sense of stability. It is difficult to operate under such conditions and to make economic plans in the medium to long term, because we all know that road communication is an important cycle of the economy. It is therefore worth recalling here that the S11 expressway is not a local infrastructure solution, but it is necessary in a state-wide aspect, as the planned route is intended to connect the fast and secure infrastructure of the Kołobrzeg and the Silesian Piekary. In total, it is to count about 550 km long and run through Zachodniopomorskie, Wielkopolskie, Opolskie and Silesian voivodships. However, its economic importance will be much wider as it will also affect the Łódź and Pomeranian voivodships. What is important for the nationwide wheel communication system, this road on the Kołobrzeg section Koszalin will be combined with the S6 expressway and the E28 European route. In Pile there will be a strategically important intersection of 2 expressways, S10 and S11. From the Piła Podlasie junction the road S11 is to run together with the national road S10. This is important, because it is necessary to build at this point the ring road of Piła - the outlet. The planned expressway is to avoid the saw, the capital of Wielkopolska north, and the east side exit, and it is planned to create 4 knots: Piła Podlasie, Piła Przemysłowa, Motylewo and Chrustowo. The total length of the ring road is approximately 23 km. In order to proceed with further work related to the circumvention of the Saw, a technical and environmental study has been developed and an application has been submitted for environmental decisions. Unfortunately, I have recently learned that the ongoing proceedings in this area have been suspended, which makes it necessary to update the materials to restart the efforts. The signing of the contract for this task with the contractor is, in fact, planned for February 2020, but the agreement is supposed to be extended and signed only in 2021. In practice, it can block the construction of such an important bypass not only for the inhabitants of the Saw and the estuary but also for all users of the communication route of the national road S11. The lack of necessary bypasses is burdensome for all, both for the inhabitants of Piła and, perhaps even more, for the inhabitants of smaller cities, as well as for the Ujście or Oborniki Wielkopolski. This can be easily illustrated by the example of the city of Evacuation. The compact housing structure along the national road No 11 in the mouth causes residents with very high traffic, especially during the spring-summer period, to be exposed to considerable nuisance. The movement of vehicles causes shocks and cracks in the walls of buildings, there is a breach of all standards related to noise intensity and exhaust emissions. The road is corked in summer for several kilometers, both towards the Saw and towards the Walking Party. Nor is it possible to leave the submissive streets freely. Mr. Senator, five minutes. Mr. Marshal, I'll cut it short. I wanted to submit this document to the protocol, but since I've been called, I'd be happy to read it, although in the part that fits in these five minutes. The construction of the S11 route, including the bypasses of the Saw and the estuary, would therefore, firstly, help to shorten the journey time throughout the 550 km route; secondly, to improve regional connections; thirdly, to adapt the road to existing legislation; fourthly, to ensure proper service of agriculture, industry, trade and services; fifthly, to achieve socio-economic benefits. I'm gonna cut it short, so I'm gonna go to the Prime Minister's questions. I hope that the Prime Minister will take into account my appeal in his plans and decisions, but at the same time I ask for an answer, among others. for the following doubts and questions. First of all, why isn't the S11 expressway connecting Silesia and Western Pomerania a priority in the government's plans to build expressways and motorways? Secondly, why are the needs, including those concerning safety, of the inhabitants of this part of Poland overlooked and treated worse than in other regions of the country? Thirdly, whether this situation will improve in the near future, among others. thanks to the acceleration of the construction of bypasses, including the bypasses of Sawa and the estuary, and will this bypass be included as a priority in the government's construction plan of 100 bypasses in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u467	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that the marshal may refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which could not be made within five minutes. Please take this into account in the future. You will now make a statement to Senator Jerzy Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have two brief statements. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, I was very concerned that the European Commission was preparing a lawsuit to the Court of Justice of the European Union on the construction of the channel by measure. The reasons for the action are the failure of Poland to comply with its obligations under EU procedures, including in particular those relating to the implementation of investments in the Natura 2000 network, and matters relating to the non-compliance with social rights in environmental consultations. I hope that the Polish government, as it has repeatedly declared, is carrying out this important investment in accordance with European standards on the care of natural and environmental values and will be able to demonstrate it. I also appeal for this attitude, because building a channel by measure cannot be at the expense of a valuable environment or the risks arising from omissions in this matter. I'm also asking you to answer my questions. Has the Polish Government been officially or unofficially informed about the preparation of an application to the TSUE for the construction of the channel by measure? If so, does the government know the charges against Poland and know what the answer will be? Can the proceedings before the TSUE end with a request to suspend the investment until the doubts have been clarified or stopped at all? Can the proceedings end with penalties for Poland and, if so, in what forms and in what amount Are we in danger of being punished? At the same time, I ask for information on the scope of the investment to adapt the Port of Elbląg to the parameters of the channel. The previous replies to my interventions in this case show that the Ministry does not feel that this obligation is fulfilled, but informal declarations suggest that the port will nevertheless be adapted to the parameters of the channel at the State's expense. If yes, please indicate which document this document specifies, what tasks will be carried out and what amount is foreseen for this task. The second statement is addressed to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Marian Banasi. Dear President, Between 2016 and 2018, a large-scale ban on employment or service relations was used during the creation of the National Tax Administration. We dealt with this problem as part of the work of the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team. We then made a request to investigate this incorrect, in our opinion, and even unconstitutional phenomenon, by the Supreme Audit Chamber. We have received confirmation from the then president of the Supreme Audit Chamber that the Chamber is planning to address this problem. Given that you are currently the President of this institution, I ask you to inform me whether, under your direction, the Supreme Audit Chamber will implement this proposal from the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Group and, if so, how long we can expect the results of the audit. I believe that you will want to explain all the ambiguities involved in this process, because you were the head of the Customs Service at the time, whose employees and officers are most affected by this operation. You were also the head of the National Tax Administration at the time, where the creation of these evil phenomena took place. I know that you have received alarming information and that you have radically warned subordinate services against disciplinary and even criminal consequences of possible negligence, errors and lack of understanding for officers, especially those assigned to eastern voivodships. However, I would also ask you to take into account not only the procedure itself, but also the very essence of the laws that form the National Tax Administration. Judgments in court proceedings, so-called. exterminated ex-officers suggest that statutory errors have been made and people have been deprived of work in accordance with many standards. Please undertake or continue the inspection process by the Supreme Audit Chamber of application in 2016 and 2018 of the institution for the termination of employment or service relations. Please inform me of the form of reference to my request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u469	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, I'd like the floor of Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u470	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Professor Łukasz Szumowski. According to Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 7 of the Act of 1 July 2005 on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs of cells, tissues or organs for transplantation or of cells or tissues for use in another person may be collected from a living donor, which may include: has full legal capacity, i.e. as a rule from an adult person, and who has voluntarily given written consent to the collection of cells, tissues or organs in order to transplant them or cells or tissues to be used in a known recipient before the doctor. It should be stressed that the collection of tissue or organ cells from a living donor for the purpose of transplanting them to another person is acceptable if this collection is made to a relative in a straight line, siblings, consort or spouse, and to another person only if this is justified by special personal considerations. In turn, a minor may be a donor where there is a direct risk of loss of life, and such danger cannot be avoided in any other way than by performing a bone marrow transplant or peripheral blood haematopoietic cells, only for siblings. If this does not result in foreseeable impairment of the donor's body's performance. According to art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of The third act referred to above, the collection of peripheral blood marrow or haematopoietic cells from a minor who does not have full legal capacity, may be carried out with the consent of the statutory representative after obtaining the consent of the court responsible for the place of residence of the donor candidate. Where the donor of the bone marrow is a minor over the age of 13, his consent shall also be required. It follows from these provisions that a minor cannot be a bone marrow donor to persons other than siblings. This principle applies to both initial parents, grandparents, and other family members. A case has been reported to me confirming the need to examine and amend existing legislation in view of the possibility of expanding a group of relatives for whom a minor may be a donor of bone marrow or peripheral blood haematopoietic cells. A 17 - year - old Polish boy With his mother's great organizational and financial commitment, he saved his father's life by handing over stem cells in Germany, where there is no such restrictive law, because in Poland this procedure was not allowed. In many cases, the lack of opportunity to find a suitable donor is the cause of the patient's death and the opening of opportunities for related minors would give the patient a chance to survive. After obtaining an opinion from the Minister, I will consider reporting a senate legislative initiative to speed up the benefits for the sick and their close changes to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u471	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u472	Thank you very much. The declaration on the inclusion of the Krakow-Czestochowa Jury on the UNESCO World Heritage List I am sending to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Dear Minister, The Society for the Protection of Nature on behalf of the social initiative of the inclusion of the Krakow-Czestochowa Jury on the UNESCO World Heritage List has asked me to support this initiative. I am an inhabitant of this region and, above all, a lover of the Jury, and I would like to express my sincere support for this initiative. Jura Krakowsko-Czestochowska is an extraordinary, picturesque land with unique valleys, caves and castles, rich in architectural monuments and beautiful landscapes. It extends in southern Poland, including an 80-kilometer belt between Krakow and Częstochowa. In the landscape there are medieval castles, elegant palaces, historic wooden churches, museums and museums. In addition to many hiking trails, we also find cycling trails and teaching trails. In the landscape of the Krakow-Czestochowa Jury there are castles, old fortresses, which were built mostly in the 14th century by Kazimierz the Great for the protection of border areas. To this day, only ruins or fragments of castles that rise on the Jurassic hills like eagles of nests have been preserved. Hence the name of the main trail leading through Jura from the castle to the castle The Eagle's Trail of Nests. It is a castle in Podzamcz, a garden, a castle of Doeskowa Rock, ruins of the castle Smoleń, a castle of Bobolice, a castle of Mira or a castle in Olsztyn. On the map of the Krakow-Częstochowa Jury we can also find other attractions such as the Ojcowski National Park, the Prądnik Valley, the Hercules Match, the Łoket Cave and the Cave. Few people know that the territory of the Jury outside of cultural and natural values also have a wealth of clean water, mainly groundwater reservoirs. I am sure that the inclusion of the Jury on this list will contribute to the promotion of this region not only in Poland, but above all in the world, so that this area of exceptional cultural, natural and landscape value will be a place of various forms of recreation. The inhabitants of the region, its lovers and self-governments have already started to enter this area on the list of world heritage. An open letter was written to the Polish Committee for Foreign Affairs. UNESCO, the Center for World Heritage in Paris, as well as various government, local government and non-governmental institutions. They take a lot of promotional measures. For my part, I would like to support these actions and encourage the honourable states of the senators to sign, to begin their collection at this point, and to the Minister I am asking for support for this type of initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u473	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm inviting Senator Czerwinski right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński. Dear Prime Minister, For over a year we have celebrated the century of Poland's regaining independence. There are various celebrations in Poland and the world aimed at reminding and honoring events and people important to our history at that time. The most spectacular are the celebrations related to the military effort of the Polish people With battles, with uprisings that directly led to the designation of our country's borders. They certainly include 3 Silesian uprisings. Silesians shed blood proved their attachment to the Polish homeland. As a result of the uprisings, and especially the third one, a large industrial part of Silesia was attached to the matrix. It is not surprising, therefore, that the celebration of the first Silesian Uprising last year will take place in Katowice. Next year's celebration of the Third Silesian Uprising, 3 May 2021, i.e. 100 years after the uprising, they'll be equally impressive. The natural place of such celebrations should be Mount St.Anna in Opole, the place of the biggest and bloodiest battle of this uprising. It is there that the annual celebrations of the next anniversaries are organized at the Monument of the Insurgent Activity. That's the problem. The state of this monument and its immediate surroundings is highly unsatisfactory. The owner of the monument is the State Treasury, but it is managed by the local governor It's a shooter's starship. Unfortunately, both the ongoing maintenance of this important for the Polish historical memory of the facility, as well as conservation and renovation works are insufficient to say more: the monument is neglected. Whether this is only due to short-sighted omission or to deliberate action It's hard to settle. This last explanation is possible if one considers that the shooter's head comes from a German minority, and the representatives of this minority repeatedly, by act and word, expressed their view of the history of the region, different from that of the Polish majority. Every now and then there are local scandals in the Opole Voivodship, the source of which is a lack of understanding by the German minority of the Polish state, e.g. in the assessment of the course and effects of the Silesian uprisings. Returning to the Monument of Insurgent Activity: the state authorities, when they saw the necessity of repairing it, obliged the manager, i.e. the senior shotgun, to carry out this task. Unfortunately, for several years the governor did not fulfil this obligation, because the projects he submitted, apart from the necessary revitalization of the monument and located next to the amphitheatre, contained much more expensive road work in the village of Góra Święta Anna. As a result, tenders did not lead to the choice of the contractor, because the measures offered by the State were too low for such a broadly defined task. In part, the renovation of roads, which should be financed as an own task by the local government. The effect is that the monument as it destroyed, so it destroys, the old man from the German minority is still deliberately powerless and blames and blames the state authorities, the Treasury, the Polish state, and the German minority wipes their hands, hoping to compromise next year's celebrations. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to intervene effectively in this matter as the person responsible for Polish national heritage, for Polish culture, for Polish historical policy and for the course of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Please bring to the reception of the board of the Monument of the Insurgent Activity on the Holy Góra Anna to an inept person who does not understand the Polish state and Polish history... Mr. Senator, five minutes. I'm just finishing my thought. ... And then to provide funding for the necessary repair work and hand over the management over the facility e.g. Opole voivodeship or other responsible entity, so that the Opole voivodship without shame can be the host of the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising next year. There is still more than a year left to carry out the right work. Local authorities, also the local government of the Opole Voivodeship, co-managed also by the German minority, cannot be counted on. Hope only in the government, in its institutions, in the Polish state. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland from the Opolskie Voivodship.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u475	Thank you very much. Your statement will be made by Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u476	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Foreign Minister, Mr Jack Chaputowicz. Dear Minister, The elections of the President of the Republic of Poland were ordered on 5 February 2020. The first round of elections will be held on 10 May 2020. Polish citizens who are permanently or temporarily abroad will want to participate in the election of the President. In accordance with the provisions of the electoral code, the establishment of voting circuits abroad and the designation of the seats of electoral committees abroad is the responsibility of the Minister. According to my information, in Italy, a country inhabited by tens of thousands of our compatriots, in the last elections of the President of the Republic in 2015 two voting circuits were set up, based in Rome and Milan. In total, over 2,000 valid votes were cast. However, three voting circuits were set up in the 2019 parliamentary elections, i.e. committees in Rome, Milan and Palermo, where more than 6,000 valid votes were put together, three times as many. The creation of an electoral commission based in Palermo should be assessed as a positive step. However, there is a huge group of Polish citizens living in the area of the Apennine Peninsula, between Rome and Palermo, including above all the area of Calabria. Not all compatriots can afford a financial or temporary effort to reach such remote places as Rome or Palermo, about 500 km away. For a long time, a group of Polish citizens from the Association of Poles in Calabria has advocated the creation of another voting circuit in Italy with the seat of the electoral commission in the centre of Calabria, in the city of Cosenza. The election commission in Cosenza would be a great amenity not only for Poles from Calabria, but also for compatriots from the neighbouring Basilicata, Puglia and southern Campania. From the information obtained by me, representatives of the association received positive votes in the embassy of the Republic of Poland on this matter. I kindly ask the Minister to inform whether, in connection with the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland in 2020, he intends to set up a voting circuit in the Italian Republic with the seat of the electoral commission in the city of Cosenza. Sincerely, Marcin Bosacki, Senator of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-06-senat-04-2.u477	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more statements. There are no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 01 minutes 07]]
