ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u1	High Seym! I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 18, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u2	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw (print No.506). Formal conclusion. I ask you, Members, to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. From the end of July to the first days of September 1920 Poland and Bolshevik Russia had a decisive start. Blood struggles were fought over nearly half a thousand kilometres: between Nieszawa nad Vistula, Sokal nad Bug and Kolno near the Prussian border and, between 13 and 15 August, in the prefield of the capital of the Republic - at Radzymin and Ossów. The Government of National Defence, led by Wincent Witos and the Polish Army's staff, took action that decided to win the Republic of Poland. The Polish Army, headed by Marshal Józef Piłsudski, saved not only the sovereignty of our Homeland, but also the democratic order of the whole of Europe. By stopping the Red Army offensive, the Poles prevented the spread of the communist revolution to Europe and thus the destruction of Western civilization. Bravo counteroffensive from the Wieprz River, led personally by the Supreme Leader, has passed into history as one of the greatest triumphs in the history of Polish weapons. The war from 1919 to 1920 was a collective effort of the entire Polish nation, all its social layers, as well as national minorities. We remember the heroism of women from the Volunteer Legion of Women and all those who served in auxiliary units. Together with Poles against the Bolsheviks, the Ukrainian army, Belarusian troops, democratic soldiers 'III Russia' fought. We recall the attitude of France, which enabled efficient delivery of weapons and ammunition, and its military mission supported the Polish command. We will not forget the act of armed American airmen from the Kosciuszko Squadron, the Belgian sanitary train, the kindness of Latvians, Estonians and Finns. We especially remember the Hungarian brothers who gave up their ammunition supplies and delivered them to Poland until the end of the armed activities. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of these events, established the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Today, on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the Miracle on the Vistula River, we pay tribute to its heroes, defenders of independence of the Republic of Poland. I propose that the Sejm adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. The formal proposal was made by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u3	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are here today to hear information from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland about the so-called. The summit of the European Union, which is presented by the Prime Minister himself as an important success, while others are being criticised. In a broad spectrum of these criticisms, we have even conjectures concerning treason of the state, which would consist in allowing citizens of the Republic of Poland to pay direct taxes to Eurokolozu without asking the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, and thus exceeding the premier's prerogatives. Since the issue is so debatable, please do not shorten the debate. I ask you to order a break and carry out an extension of the debate by the Seniors' Convention (the bell) so that near the Confederation there is no limit to one question to the task in this discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u4	Thank you, sir. Mr President, we will not vote on the request for a break because the aim is to convene the Senior Convention. The Senior Convention has been held. There were no conclusions on this. We will therefore not make any changes. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! However, I ask that the Seniors Convention be convened to take into account the information provided by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on Poland's intention to denounce the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. If there's anything between us in this room, it's concern for the weakest, it's concern for the victims of violence. Remember, 100,000. Women are victims of violence every year, 500 of them die, commit suicides, die. It's not a political issue. The Council of Europe Convention is a European framework to help victims of violence. The convention stands on the side of women - victims of violence. We expect the government to know clearly whose side it's on, because it's zero-one: either it's on the victim's side or it's on the perp's side. If we hear that the government is considering giving up this convention, this is a very bad signal when it comes to supporting women - victims of violence, and a very strong signal for the perpetrators. That's why we're asking for this information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please, as soon as possible. And we're asking for help from the victims of violence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u6	Thank you very much, Member. This case has been the subject of an opinion by the Senior Convention, and I will therefore not put it to the vote because I will not call the Senior Convention on this issue for the second time. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u7	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to convene the Convention on a very appalling matter, namely: your Marshal refuses to give the print number of the law declared by the Left. It's about the law on safe abortion and education, health and sexuality. I remind you that in Poland there is still a law and a democratic system in which parties have the right to submit projects and these projects must be considered. Mrs. Marshalkini! It is not possible to be guided by worldview considerations in relation to the projects submitted and to refuse to issue a print number and therefore refuse to proceed with the bill for which thousands, hundreds of thousands of women are waiting in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the victims of this law are women every year and they are waiting for this law to finally be amended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It cannot be that women's rights in Poland do not matter at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u8	Thank you, Member. Member, listen to me. First of all, I do not deny the right to issue a printing number. At the moment, this project is being analysed by the legal services of the Sejm. And that's why you're rejecting... Marshal, this is a decision. There doesn't have to be a printing number right away. The project is currently being analysed by legal services. How long do we wait? So how long are we gonna wait? Mrs. Member! I'm not gonna call the Senior Convention, so I'm not gonna announce a break. The proposal is not a formal proposal. Thank you. But we're supposed to vote on my motion before it's re-translated... We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws (prints Nos 430 and 499). I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft Government Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws, print No. 430. The Parliament held its 14th meeting on 15 July 2020 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 21 July 2020, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u10	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev will perform with the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. This is a report that is available in print No 499. The subject of this law, this draft was discussed in detail at the previous session of the Sejm here in the High House. We talked very much about the solutions that are in this government project. We talked through a debate, by asking questions. Unfortunately, which Mr Swed rightly pointed out, most of you, particularly when asking questions, did not speak about this law. Let us remind you that this law applies to something different than what the questions asked at first reading were about. This law applies to foreign companies that delegate workers to our country, not to posting in the other direction. I will also mention the speech of one of the members of the Civic Coalition, who was thundering from the Sejm stand, saying that the directive had not been implemented. Here, too, I will remind you of the words of Minister Swede and I will stress the fact that Mrs Swede spoke completely not about the subject at the time, because this implementation directive was implemented in 2014. These negotiations were conducted by Minister Mleczko of PSL. That was the beginning, that implementation bill was the beginning. Today we're just changing a piece of this bill. This implementation directive was implemented under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. So let us remind you that this project concerns the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, whose objectives are to address the problem of unfair practices and promote the principle that the same work in the same place should be remunerated, and to ensure fair conditions of remuneration for posted workers and equal conditions of competition between companies posting workers and local businesses in the host country, as well as to improve the quality of EU legislation, and to remove the barriers currently encountered by the State Labour Inspection in obtaining information for the purposes of carrying out its statutory tasks from tax authorities, and to introduce provisions providing for the exclusion of cabotage from the provisions of the proposed law and the maintenance of cabotage operations as amended so far. The bill is very important. There is, of course, a positive recommendation from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I'm bringing this to the High House to make this bill. I would also like to thank the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs with the President, Ms Ursula Rusecka. It was a great deal of work that was done yesterday, a nearly two-hour discussion about this law, so a great deal of gratitude to the president of Urszula Rusecka. It is worth noting that the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has finally expressed its positive views on this draft law. 22 votes were in favour, 22 Members and 22 MEPs voted in favour of the final form of the print proposal No 499, no one was against, only 10 MPs abstained. This also shows the outstanding achievements of the President - this discussion was very good in character and very good in direction. I would also like to draw attention to the article. 13, which has been amended by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, Article. 13, which changes the time of entry into force of this law. This will no longer be 30 July 2020, but printing report No 499 assumes that the Act will enter into force after the impact of 14 days after the announcement. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, please accept the draft law from print no. 499. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u12	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr Boris. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u13	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that Mr Law and Justice representative was not present at the family committee meeting yesterday. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there was a situation that probably did not take place in the process of creating law in Poland. Instead of working on the implementation of the directive implementing the rules relating to posted workers, we have dealt with the issue of the public finance crisis, your marshal. Well, sir, if you were present, you would know that, at the last minute, Law and Justice have de facto devastated the stabilisation rule, the expenditure rule, excluding all public investment from this rule. Excuse me, are we talking about the Posted Workers Act or are we talking about the Public Finance Crisis Act? This kind of practice... That's not how you do it. [[Applause]] That is why we will demand an urgent meeting of the Public Finance Committee. This is an unacceptable practice. The directive, which we are talking about, is extremely important and fundamentally regulates the conditions for the competition of posted workers in terms of the level of remuneration to be equal and stable at the place of work, namely the regulation of the 2018 Directive and the previous Directive, which entered into force in 2014. This is an extremely important directive, which is expected by posted workers working in Poland, but also awaits 200,000. Polish workers who do the work, posted workers, in the European Union, because most of the Member States of the European Union introduce or introduce the provisions of this Directive. It is extremely important. And the state what you did-- you violated the principle of diligence at all in carrying out work on the Public Finance Act. COVID cannot be amended to the Posted Workers Act. This practice is simply unacceptable, your marshal, and I am surprised that the Committee on Public Finance, which monitors the sovereign debt system... Here we are. ...she didn't know anything about this amendment, she came to us half an hour before this committee meeting. [[Applause]] Therefore, I would like to say to you that, as regards the essential subjects relating to the substantive part of this law, they are properly prepared, this is almost unambiguously regulated, as the directive states, both in terms of wage standards, the maintenance of minimum remuneration for a period of 12 months, with the possibility of extending by 6 as well as in terms of the time limit for maintaining minimum remuneration. It also gives many of the necessary competences of the State Labour Inspection. In a fundamental way, it places us as an entity in the European Labour Agency, which was created in Slovakia. On the other hand, this law, as we talked about and followed, was prepared at the last moment. We received the amendments half an hour before the meeting. This is practice, I'll repeat it again, unacceptable. Not only is it time for the directive to be implemented at the end of July, but it is also because you are behind the back door, Mr President, which you have not said or were not present at the committee meeting, that you are introducing the dismantling of public finances. To exclude all public investment from the traditional spending rule, you need to have a lot of nerve, introduce it through the family committee without the information of the Public Finance Commission. What is the debt, Minister, of the state budget? What are you doing with Polish finances? We're gonna need full information on this. I just wanted to add a little bit more information. Even during the economic period which Poland had until COVID, investments were 1.5%. lower than in 2015. This year, the investment in the private sector is falling dramatically to 13.3%, i.e. the 1992 level. And you want to hide the debt of our state's public finances in the Posted Workers Act? We will demand a meeting of the Public Finance Committee, because this is an unacceptable practice. I also apply for the deletion of Article. 12, which demolishes the system of stabilisation of public finances in this law, introduces an amendment which excludes public investment as a rule [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's an expense. That's the amendment we're making. If this amendment passes, we will vote against, because it is against the interests of the Polish state and the stability of public finances. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u14	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Maciej Necessary will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Labour Code in Poland has not been accepted. That's what they often say, and there's a reason for it. For many years, the Polish state has not been able to seriously pursue labour law violations. In this room full of relentless defenders of the rule of law, on the one hand, and hard sheriffs, on the other, the subject of defending workers' rights somehow cannot find recognition. You just don't care. That's not true. Waving a constitution and shouting about the rule of law from the parliament benches is too busy to see that millions of Poles are deprived of an honest employment contract, paid leave, due leave or paid overtime. It does not leave much time to chase real criminals who rob Poles of their payouts, contributions or free time for their family. The PiS Sheriffs prefer to take care of their colleagues in the Treasury companies. The truth is that in Poland you can break labour law and do a good business with full passiveness and helplessness of the state. I'm talking about this in the case of the Posted Workers Act, because it's time to change that. It is time to make sure that the regulations protecting workers are not just on paper. Therefore, as a Left, we will make key amendments to this law. One that will ensure that the State Labour Inspection will be able to get funds for the new tasks assigned to it. And the second is that for breaking the rules there are proportionate penalties, linked to the company's turnover, so that these laws are not just on paper. Without these amendments, these rules will not be enforced or penalties will be so ridiculously low that big business will throw them into the cost. In Poland, it pays to break labour law. Contrary to the opinion of the oppressive country that oppresses entrepreneurs, checks are very rare and penalties are ridiculously low. For a misdemeanor, an unfair employer will pay a $1,000 ticket. Or 2,000. zł. Recriminal, 5,000. zł. For big companies, it's no money. Trade unions are low, and repression for professional activities is real. The organizing employees just get fired from work, let them look for justice in court. Maybe they'll find her in four years. Only the bills have to pay now, not for four years. What are the effects for ordinary people? That hundreds of thousands of them have been poached for years. They get garbage contracts, although they work at a certain place, at a certain time and under supervision. Where did you get this data? Legally, they're entitled to a contract of employment. Is that legal? Of course not. Does everyone know that? Of course. Is someone gonna do something about it? Not really. That's not true. Where is your rule of law, Civic Platform? Where's your tough attitude towards criminals, United Right? In Poland, you can go to prison for minor theft. Sheriff Zbigniew Ziobro is very fond of bragging about how he raises penalties for criminals. However, thousands of Poles are looking forward to their payouts. Unfair employers rob them of their wages. Has anyone seen these crooks go to jail? Not at all. The norm in Poland is to pay a significant part of the salary under the table. We're all paying for it. That's bullshit. I can't listen to this. Lower pensions, underfunded health care - these are the effects of robbing workers of their contributions. Is anyone really fighting this? No, not at all. Overtime in Poland should be recorded, additionally paid or received in a free form. There they are. Of course? Legally, yes. Then listen to the employees. I want you to read the inspection report. This is bullshit. I can't listen to this. In many Polish companies it is exactly the opposite. You stay late because the boss says so. Illegal free overtime is a sad norm in Polish workplaces. You're a fairy tale. Read a little. In this way, Poles are robbed not only of their money, but mostly of their spare time, which they could spend with their family. Bullshit. This is the truth of the Polish labour market and if you were interested, they would know it. Why is all this possible? Because workers in Poland are still more afraid of losing their jobs, poverty, that they will not have bills than dishonest entrepreneurs are afraid of the consequences of breaking the law, because penalties for violating labour law are ridiculously low. Because the State Labour Inspection is toothless. Because he is still fired in Poland for trying to become a trade union. Because over the years, no one in power, no one in this House, didn't really bother you. The law, the rule of law, justice are changed in the Sejm by all cases, but somehow they cannot enter Polish workplaces. On behalf of Parliament's Left, I would like to say that we will stand by the protection of the fact that labour law in Poland does not exist only theoretically. Ha, ha, ha! Hence our amendments. Specific amendments, a specific enforcement tool for posted workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we will have the opportunity to see, here I particularly appeal to laughing Members of the Law and Justice, on the occasion of these amendments, whether the government really wants to ensure equal treatment of workers, whether it is merely appearances, whether it is just, as usual, drinking on water, photomontage for the needs of the European Union. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tell me about the facts. These are facts. Thank you very much, sir. If you ever talked to your employees, not just in the Seym, or... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...you'd know. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u16	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Coalition club in relation to print no.499, the amendment of the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws. The aim of this proposed law is to implement the EU Directive, Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament concerning the posting of workers and the compensation of posted workers in particular in the countries of the European Union. In our view, this directive is evil and harmful. I think that, in the view of the Government, it is also because this is evident from the fact that it has been challenged to the Court of Justice. We do not have a verdict yet, so today we are proceeding over a law that may change in a moment, but it contains a number of bad things. Of course, we can say that the implementation of this law in Poland is due to employees whose foreign companies are posting, only that in practice it looks like that companies who delegate workers to work in Poland, foreign companies, are certainly paying them more than it would have been due to the rates in force in Poland, so there is really no change here. However, implementing this directive in other countries of the European Union can unfortunately not help workers - it can only lead to them losing their jobs, because entrepreneurs who have emerged and have a chance to compete in other European markets may simply not be able to implement it at the moment. Is that why I'm saying right now? Because it is designed in the middle of the year, during the pandemic and unfortunately at the moment companies are very often talking about various problems. This directive, its implementation, imposes additional logistical responsibilities, administrative responsibilities on companies and we do not think that it is good for any employees. This is only an artificial demonstration that such rules can be introduced. On the other hand, will entrepreneurs be able to handle this? I'm having a lot of doubts here. The problem is also what a fellow Member from the Civic Platform mentioned - how to proceed. If we are implementing European law, ladies and gentlemen, then let us implement it. Let's not blame everything on COVID for making this a legal mess. As could have been yesterday at an hour. 18.30, in the course of the committee's meeting, make a dozen amendments which amend the COVID Act and are absolutely not related to this directive? This directive may be amended in a moment, the Polish law may be amended. There is a record there - I am no longer talking about other records that have emerged, absolutely unrelated to the posting of workers - abolishing the expenditure rule. After all, it is unacceptable at this point to bring about such a situation that by adopting the Posting of Workers Act, we could ask the question: What is the state deficit? If we exclude investment expenditure from that, so that it does not enter the deficit, the next generation will not know, because at this point the Minister of Finance cannot tell what the cost of this amendment will be, what the situation of local governments after COVID will look like after 2021. Will we not find out what the deficit looks like, what we leave to future generations of Poles, how long we leave them? No, because we're not gonna type it in. We're doing creative accounting. This should be in the finance committee, should be structured and counted such cases, should not be added ad hoc in the course of the social policy committee's deliberations to changes absolutely concerning the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen! That's no way to make a law, to make such a mess. We're dealing with this all the time. After all, this must be followed, for after the rule of law and justice: after us even the flood, Gierek would probably be the master of it, because he did not owe you as much as the state. We really don't know what state finances are gonna look like. How to plan investments, spend money, dozens of billions of zlotys, and not tell citizens that they cost so much, and say that in theory there is no... And these are really debts that the next generation will pay back. They're gonna be paying in taxes right now, because they're gonna work longer because the ZUS has debts, and hospitals have debts, and local governments have debts. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do this, future generations will never see the situation that they will earn just like the workers of the European Union in Poland, because they will spend their entire lives paying off these debts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u18	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krystian Kaminski will speak first on behalf of the Confederation's Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The EU Posting of Workers Directive will be in force in a few days. The government proposal for a law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws is precisely the implementation of this EU directive. We talked about what this EU directive is going to do last week. At that time, I told the Seymary that there would be a limited time for the posting companies for which they could delegate workers. There will be limited places, areas where they can be posted, e.g. they will not be able to be posted in the case of fixed professions, where they are for a long time, i.e. for months, years. The possibility of issuing A1 certificates will be limited. And here you say that this will not apply to Polish companies. No, it's going to be because we're implementing the law that obliges the U.S.S. to control these A1. ZUS will therefore be in cross-checks blocking access for Polish companies, i.e. the Polish state will de facto influence that companies will not be able to delegate workers abroad. And this is a problem for the Polish state, because these posting companies, which in Poland have about 90 thousand, bring Poland huge income, bring billions of PLN to the Polish budget, bring money for which they have earned themselves. Annually we spend as a Polish country 600 thousand. A1. A huge number of employees - almost 600 thousand. certificates, which means it's a plus minus 350,000. employees who are posted, who bring this money from the West to Poland. And what does this directive cause? It causes one thing: these workers will not be able to be posted by the Polish State, but will be directly employed in Western countries, Germany, France, and there these contributions will be paid, there will be all the profits. The companies that are posting in Poland, which bring this money to Poland, will be liquidated. The whole business that was created is just gonna be wiped out. And that's the problem. If you think that this has nothing to do with the Polish national interest, then I think we really understand Polish national interest differently and what the Polish state should have fought for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u20	Thank you very much. And Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! This Posted Workers Directive is an excellent example of what hypocrisy exists in the European Union as regards the planning of economic law. We were promised, Poles, that in the European Union, in the common market, they would win better, that those who would have more competitive and innovative economic models would gain markets. And so it was, indeed it was, especially in the case of Western companies entering Poland. However, when after 15 years of European integration there was one industry, the transport industry, in which Polish companies, thanks to better organization of work, thanks to lower labour costs, do not be afraid to say this, thanks to the solid hard work of Polish drivers, Polish logisticsists, Polish entrepreneurs, began to dominate German, French companies, becoming a very influential actor throughout the European market, it turned out that Germany and France agreed to prevent further expansion of Polish companies to Western markets under the pretext of protecting labour rights or preventing any alleged tax abuse. It turns out that this national selfishness in matters of economic competition has always been very deeply seated in Germany, France and citizens of other Western European nations. They never accepted the fact that Poles can dominate in any industry at all. They consider it a natural situation that they come here, dominate in various industries, lay down rules of play for us, both in the economic market and in the political, legal field. They're going to parametrize the rule of law, explain to us what human rights are, they're going to impose a convention on us, how women's rights should be understood. On the other hand, when there is normal competition on the same economic basis, they flee to Brussels and immediately ask to establish a special protective lens for them. That is exactly what the Posted Workers Directive is about. And now: What is the mistake of the Polish government? The mistake of the Polish government is that, first, he allowed such a situation that it is possible to regulate the market so unfairly, second, that he does not intervene ostensibly in the international forum in defence of Polish companies, and thirdly, that he is too eager to implement this directive. You had to apply for a continuance, you had to delay it. I would like to point out, as I have already said, that the countries which requested this, namely France and Germany, have not implemented this directive themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. 13 parliamentarians signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On the occasion of this ratification law, the government has traditionally recently made outcasts. Instead of working over the past two weeks and taking appropriate legislative initiatives, the government has participated in President Andrzej Duda's campaign. That is why we now need to save ourselves in the second reading. I would like to ask the Minister for a solution, which is contained in the revision of the COVID Act, which states that district, voivodship labour offices and public employment services may use the electronic systems introduced by the competent Minister for Labour, accessing the data collected in the account of the payer of insurance contributions (Book). And there's a reference to eight provisions in this law. What information will the county, voivodship labour offices and public employment services be able to apply for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wonder when, under the pretext of fighting COVID, PiS will introduce the death penalty into the Polish legal order, because you probably haven't done it yet. Pretending to fight the epidemic, you destroyed the Polish state, you destroy it every day. We already have impunity in the bill today in the case of sticky hands of the ministers of the PiS government. And in this law, in the Posted Workers Act, the Minister of Finance amends the Public Finance Act. It is a change which - attention - allows them next year to spend as much as they want, as they want and de facto what they want. All property expenses are excluded from the stabilisation of the expenditure rule. Then why did they come to the finance committee three weeks ago with a novel of this rule when you think it's different after three weeks? It's not enough that COVID's expenses are outside the rule (the bell), which we understood, yet you want to do everything without any control. Remember that Poland will also be there when you are not in power. What will retirees and pensioners do if you destroy the state's finances... Thank you. ...in a complete, unreconstructable way... Thank you, Member. ...for many years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u26	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Social solidarity, which is so much said by the Law and Justice and the United Right, is also solidarity between the generations. Today, the United Right, the rulers, aren't even thinking about what's going to happen to the next generation, how much of their salary they're going to pay off to pay off those debts. The balanced budget was the biggest lie of Prime Minister Moravian. Last year, when I talked about it from that platform, you guys were booming. If we went into a crisis with a sustainable budget, with sound public finances, today you wouldn't have to make these kinds of contributions at night, which remove further state expenditure in this and next year from the stabilizing expenditure rule. How badly do you want to indebt the Polish state under the cloak of the COVID-19 epidemic? How much debt will we pay after the rule of law and justice? Come to your senses. After you not only the flood (the bell), there must be generations to live for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u28	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this law should not be called a law amending the Posting of Workers Act, but a law on the CPR of a dead body, because that is the most important provision in this law. It's the CPR of the budget corpse. And today, the questions that should be asked from this speaker should be about what is the real state of public finances, what is the real deficit, how much future generations will pay, because that is really what this law is all about. What do Poles expect from the government? A stable policy that ensures security. Meanwhile, what do we got? The central bank markets, prints cash as much as it can, causing inflation to rise. What's the government doing? The government is hitting the second pillar, which is absolutely loosening the expenditure rule in the state budget, which will result in a lack of confidence, a further drain of capital and a deterioration of macroeconomic conditions (the bell). Question: "Where is any logic in all this?" Minister! What is the real state of public finances? Thank you. Poles expect an answer to this question today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u31	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This implementation of European law is another example that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki cannot fight against European patronism and discrimination against our employees, Polish companies. This is another example of the fact that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki cannot find himself in the European arena. All countries, even the Visegrad Group countries, have left us about posted workers. Like you, since they couldn't build the so-called. The blocking minority on posted workers wants to build such a blocking minority on very serious issues, such as the question of defending Europe's resources in confronting the rule of law? Secondly, how can we afford to introduce other issues which are incompatible not only with the ordinary political culture (the Bell), but also with all the principles that ruled in this House? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u33	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, once again, we show that in the bill that we are working on, we add additional things. And let me say this: my clubmate said about the case of these posted workers, that we really need to do this as the last country in the European Union, and with these solutions, I hope, the Court of Justice will take care of it in due course. But I'd like to get back to the specific case, to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (1). Ladies and gentlemen, this stabilizing expenditure rule is aimed primarily at bringing the deficit down. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that if we allow today total freedom of operation and total expulsion of this, then the budget [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish countries after your governments will never be able to fix them again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, it has become a kind of tradition that we put into various laws things that do not concern these laws. Let me remind you, we put the famous self-government fund into the Tourist Gift Bill, which is the possibility of giving out checks during the election campaign. On the other hand, the situation is very serious because we are talking about public finances. As early as June, the Minister of Finance announced the need for a revision of the budget and actually indicated issues relating to the flexibility of the financial and expenditure rules. So my question is: Are Poland's finances in such a situation today that they require these rules to change? Second thing. When is the budget really being revised? Because according to this law, we should still be working on (the bell) amending the budget in July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u37	I have a question: Why are you so zealous? Why are we the first country of the European Union to implement a negative directive? Who promised you for this? What kind of business did you find out about this? What interest do we have in this as a country to be a leader in the sector of implementing unfavorable solutions for ourselves? Instead of this overzealousness, maybe we could consider paying some prank here, because since Germans and French in the European Parliament, by proceeding over this bill - I was there then, I listened to it until they got away - they referred to the welfare of the workers, that the same pay should be made for the same work, so maybe, on the same principle, let us introduce a provision that German companies in Poland should pay their employees as much as in Germany. The work of the cashier in Lidl is the same in Poland and Germany, so let them pay as in Germany if they are so forward. And to Mr. Necessary: give up such aggressive, classic rhetoric of employees' hatred of employers. Workers and employers are different, they are different people and the same (the bell) can be dishonest workers, cheating, stealing, but building stereotypes and mutual hatred classes on this basis is not right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first question, formal, is whether there is an opinion of the Legislative Office, because there is an assumption in the Directives that cannot be amended and broken: the scope of the Directive must not be extended. However, in the statements of all Members, I think I hear that this enlargement has taken place. So what is the opinion of the legal office? On the other hand, in substance, by listening... I am not on this committee, but after hearing the speeches, as a Member, I am shocked because this directive seems to be unfavourable. We hear that it imposes new obligations on Polish companies, which at the moment, during the pandemic period, are in a often dramatic situation and are fighting for survival. So any additional obligation is an extremely unfavourable situation. It is not enough, we can also hear (The bell) - I am finishing, your marshal - that this directive will cause a drain of funds from Poland. So what's the point? What's the benefit? Minister! I ask for a clear answer and an explanation to all those who listen to our debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u40	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government applies the principle to Polish workers: as I see no problems, it means that they do not need to be dealt with. Often left to themselves employees must fight for their rights in courts, and the government says: I don't see the problem, it doesn't have to be dealt with. By the Act on Posted Workers, it is worth recalling the institution, which is to seek the interests of employees, to control all the bodies that employ in Poland. It's about the State Labour Inspection. The State Labour Inspection is still underfunded, new responsibilities are delegated to it, new tasks are translated, and money as it wasn't, it's not. If we want to fight to ensure that workers are treated with dignity, so that we, as parliamentarians, can speak to them in the eyes that their rights are being applied, we need to spend more money on the State Labour Inspection. In this regard, the Left tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three specific questions that have been sent to my parliamentary office, namely: Should an employee on a business trip obtain an A1 certificate? During the secondment, are the costs of transport and accommodation in the event of the employer's covering of these costs subject to payment and taxation? And the third question: If the workers provide alternate work within 12 months, is it correct to assume that up to 183 days we only include time spent abroad? So if an employee works, for example. 2 weeks in Poland, 2 weeks in Germany, then we only add up and only work in Germany? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I wonder why, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, you rejected our amendment, which linked the amount of the mandate imposed on the company to its turnover. President Rusecka commented that she did not know if it was worthwhile to punish entrepreneurs during the epidemic. And I ask you from the United Rights: What entrepreneurs? After all, dishonest entrepreneurs who deceive Polish workers should be punished. Don't put all the entrepreneurs in the same bag. Not all entrepreneurs are criminals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u46	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I would like to ask you a specific question: How much will this amendment cost? It's about an amendment that came in yesterday, not even at the last minute, but in the course of a committee meeting, and it's not the finance committee, it's the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. I'm very curious how you're gonna untangle it later. Why are you able to confuse this law so much, since it is already so twisted that most Poles have difficulty interpreting it? You're making an even bigger mess of this law. I don't think that's the right direction. I ask you to answer the question: How much will this amendment cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u48	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer your questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion. Let me just briefly recall a few things from our first reading last week, so that we can be clear about what we are working on, and I will move on to answering some questions that have been put here. First thing. I would like to reiterate this important point that today we are discussing a directive amending the implementation directive, which was implemented in 2014 by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Later, this basic Directive, negotiated in 2015, entered into force in 2016. The point is that we are not inventing a new directive, we are adapting the provisions to those directives that have been adopted. Let me just remind you that we have fought the whole battle so that these provisions amending the directives do not enter into force. It is about the implementation of the so-called. yellow card procedures. 11 countries have taken this decision with us. Finally, Parliament has adopted this solution, with the opposition of our country, Hungary and the four countries that have abstained at the time: the UK, Lithuania, Latvia and Croatia. Six countries were against this directive, i.e. there was no unanimity on this solution. Once again, I would like to remind you that this directive does not apply to the road transport sector. This will be regulated in the lex specialis, in the mobility package that is adopted by the European Parliament, and road transport issues are negotiated by the Ministry of Infrastructure. This directive, which we are implementing, concerns employees of foreign companies who are posting workers to our country. Other countries are implementing this Directive in their countries. Today we are neither leaders nor at the end of this directive. Today, Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Malta, Lithuania and Slovakia have already implemented this directive. These countries have already implemented it. It is followed by Austria, Denmark and Finland at a similar time. We are halfway through, so to speak, the rates for the implementation of this directive. One amendment states that the law will enter into force 14 days after the announcement, so we give time for foreign entrepreneurs to adapt. A few questions have been asked about the detailed records. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked what data... It is about changes concerning the determination of benefits from the COVID Act by entrepreneurs. It's about making things easier, for example. It's whether or not someone's behind on their contributions. These data will be downloaded electronically from the Social Insurance Institution by county labour offices that implement programs related to the fight against the koravirus or the voivodship labour offices. There were questions about the State Labour Inspection. As far as the punishments are concerned, we talked about this yesterday at the committee meeting. The penalties are appropriate to those penalties which we impose on Polish entrepreneurs. If today in Polish legislation we are given that the highest penalty can be 30,000. zł, it is also for employees of foreign companies that this penalty must be at the same level. Otherwise, we would be faced with discrimination. As far as budgetary issues are concerned, the Minister of Finance, who was at the committee meeting yesterday, explained that the government budget deficit for the first half of the year was PLN 17 billion. Tomorrow we have a discussion on the implementation of the 2019 budget. I think those questions are gonna rain there, too. And in a moment, the Prime Minister will talk about the negotiation success of the measures that are earmarked for a new perspective of European Union funding. These questions will probably come down as well. So there's no breach here. The proposal, which was adopted by the committee, is intended to make it easier for us to get out of the crisis. With regard to the specific question that you have asked about A1 - that is, the coordination of social security systems - we will answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. Since during the second reading... Corrigendum. I'm sorry. I just wanted to... But in what mode? You've been exchanged, sir? The Lord said that it is not true that we are the first country, and in the explanatory memorandum it says something else: that we are the first country. It's in the explanatory memorandum. Okay, but he wasn't referring to your statement. I'm so sorry. He was referring. You were referring to my statement. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the provisions of the agreement signed at the extraordinary European Council in Brussels on 17 and 21 July 2020. I ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to present the information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I flew to Brussels on Thursday evening, the situation was full of many question marks, many unknowns, for many reasons. Because I don't think there's ever been such a difference between different groups, between different alliances, alliances within the European Union. The terms of the negotiations for the new budget have also changed substantially, and this is mainly because the United Kingdom has emerged from the European Union. In the context of the budgetary negotiations and in the context of the negotiations of the Fund for Reconstruction, this meant a EUR 70 billion cut-off, since the UK was the net payer at this rate of 7, about 10 billion times 7. However, if we were to add a hypothetical contribution to the Fund for Reconstruction, this gap would be even larger, proportionally around EUR 100 billion. It was therefore obvious to many countries that this time the Cohesion Fund must be significantly smaller, that Poland will be a smaller beneficiary of the Cohesion Fund. Meanwhile, I have the first very good news for the High House and for the compatriots, a very good message: Poland is the largest beneficiary of the Cohesion Fund. [[Applause]] Bravo! This amount is about €70 billion, and counting in current prices - at different times it will be spent - it will be more, but I am already giving these lower figures so that there is no doubt. So we have the resources of the Cohesion Fund, and these are measures of unprecedented scale. It is also worth recalling that Poland was a co-deciding country for the first time in these negotiations. We have actually dealt with various alliances, alliances. Poland, together with the Visegrad Group, together with the countries of Central Europe, which in some sense were very close to us, was a co-deciding voice, and this co-deciding vote ultimately also decided to compromise, to win. [[Applause]] The main figures must first be given within the fund as a whole. All European funds, all funds related to the so-called Next generation, a fund for the reconstruction of Europe after the coronavirus, is the total funding for the entire European Union exceeding EUR 1700 billion, for the whole of the European Union. Now, as part of the sharing of these funds, part of the reconstruction fund was allocated to the main lines of action that we know from previous perspectives, namely agricultural policy, cohesion policy or the recently emerged just transformation fund. And here in each of these policies there were new measures, but there were also additional beneficiaries on the basis of a new criterion, a criterion that was not before. This is such a very sad criterion that the country has been most abused in the context of an epidemic that has been damaged from the point of view of economic conditions, but also as regards the issue of health care. Poland belongs to the best, and this was emphasized, among those who did the best. You understand the perverseness of this argument, because everyone said to us: If you have done the best or are in a group of countries that have done the best, together with the Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, then maybe this fund should not be for you because you have done the best. It took a really big equilibrystics, building alliances, so that Poland would not only be included in this reconstruction fund, but that the losses associated with the so-called. The reduction of 22% by a group of cheap people, 22% from the starting proposals, cost only 3% of Poland. [[Applause]] That's a huge advantage. Indeed, Poland faced not only a certain fundamental dispute concerning the future, development on the basis of which parameters to develop, or, above all, on the basis of cohesion policy, or on the basis of national policies. So our victory is not only a victory for Poland, it is also a victory for European solidarity, it is also a victory for the continuation of the best years of the European Union, the years in which the European Union... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Is everything okay? ...the continuation of the best years when the European Union really knew very well that we were all in one wheelchair, saying on a daily basis that we need to develop mechanisms that the European Union as a whole will push forward on the macro- and micro-economic side. This thought has guided us from the very beginning, and this thought has finally convinced the vast majority, with the exception of maybe four or five countries. We were in this vast majority, which sought fair distribution of funds, fair distribution of funds, and as part of a fair distribution of funds, we have always believed that the countries that are underdeveloped, for historical reasons, we know, we do not need to go back to that, must receive proportionally more funds. That is why I spoke about the total pool available to the whole European Union. Now I'm going to talk about the pool of funds we negotiated. For Poland, within the total envelope, this will be over PLN 700 billion. [[Applause]] Bravo! These funds consist of both grants of over PLN 620 billion and privileged loans, because it is not excluded that they will have zero interest rates and even the issuance of some Polish loans, the issue of Polish bonds from a month ago had a negative interest rate, i.e. those who lend us money, still pay us that they lend us money. Will it be that good with these privileged loans, that we do not know today, because it depends on future conditions in the financial markets, but it is very cost-effective, long-term - the return date is 15, 20 years - the loans that we can use for infrastructure, road construction, big projects, energy projects, energy transformations, as well as communication projects that we have been talking about for many months, i.e. the Central Communication Port, and especially its railway axes. In the context of the whole negotiation process, it is worth noting that a group of countries that wanted to reduce resources, both within the multiannual framework, within the framework of the budgetary perspective, i.e. the so-called. the multiannual financial framework, as well as the reconstruction fund, has been shrinking. We have been able to convince an increasing number of countries, headed by Germany, France, of course Italy and Spain, which is the largest population and the size of the economy in the European Union, that this must be a major recovery plan, since the European Union, in this and next year's view, will have an investment gap of around EUR 1.5 trillion. If, on the one hand, we have an investment gap, it needs to be flooded, flooded through large, extensive, generous investment programmes, public investment programmes supported by European funds. Ladies and gentlemen! Every time you come back from such a summit, there are different circumstances. However, probably the best comments from various Western media about Poland's success, such as, I think, also for the opposition - are not only very famous media, but also some kind of determinant of the western opinion. For me, this is not a measure of our victory, because I remember what the opposition said when negotiating the previous budgetary perspective. At the time, she claimed that such funds from cohesion policy would never be sent to Poland again. There are even greater resources from cohesion policy and other policies. [[Applause]] Bravo! I remember the opposition saying that this is the last such a good prospect for Poland. This perspective, the next 7 years, is much better for Poland than the previous one. [[Applause]] Bravo! I don't know what kind of cake you shared back then, or 300 billion or 400 billion, different numbers were falling, but I think it's gonna be hard for you to prove that 400 or 350 is more than 700. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I will also tell one story, one of the many scenes that took place there. We entered into negotiations in a very narrow group of countries on certain detailed arrangements in the field of cohesion policy, a transformation fund under which Poland was not to receive any funds, because this was the position of the main negotiating bodies, namely the European Commission, the European Council, from the first to the last day. I want to report here to the High House and to my fellow countrymen that coming out of that room, where we were supposed to receive less, not only did we get the opportunity to spend 50 funds from the Fair Transformation Fund, even without declaring ourselves about climate neutrality and without giving a date on the Polish side, but we also received an additional PLN 3 billion for the development of the least prosperous Polish regions. [[Applause]] Bravo! And everyone who knows the clues of these negotiations, knows that up to the last hours, literally up to the last hours, i.e. on the night of Monday to Tuesday, these funds were not available for Poland, they were not available. Today for voivodships of Eastern Poland, for less prosperous areas, those who will need the biggest investments in infrastructure, Via Carpatia, Via Baltica, Rail Baltica, connections in energy infrastructure, railway and road - there these additional funds will be redirected. It is a very big success, which will help in sustainable development, i.e. in the trademark of Law and Justice, the United Right. [[Applause]] Bravo! Ladies and gentlemen! We were also on our way to this summit with the conviction that these negotiations would indeed be very difficult, because we knew that in the case of smaller countries their negotiating power was relatively lower for obvious reasons. And that's why the ability to build coalitions was the foundation of our success. The honourable opposition has been saying for a long time that our assertive policy will lead us to a negotiation failure - those were your words changed by all cases - and that we will receive half of these funds. That's what your representatives said. Meanwhile, it has turned out that hard negotiation policy, assertive policy, rather than patting on the shoulder, is the most effective policy. [[Applause]] And under this policy we have received the largest resources in the European Union. Just look at this table, which the Czech Prime Minister showed me, probably even at the press conference he showed the Hungarian Prime Minister himself, where Poland among 27 countries is in the first place in the total amount of funds available. [[Applause]] High Izbo! It was also discussed so-called. the rule of law. Well, we know very well that for over 2 years there has been a procedure of inclusion of the so-called. Conditionality, i.e. dependence of access to funds on hypothetical compliance with the conditions of the rule of law, which is unknown who and how, who and according to which criteria should be defined. And we actually acted against it, not only with the Prime Minister of Hungary. Very interesting were voices from the centre of the European Council, voices from other prime ministers... Which ones? ...also those who are essentially standing on the other side when it comes to certain disputes. These were voices indicating the indefinability of certain definitions, with a very high risk of applying entries in cases which do not have a specific legal status. And these negotiating capacities, building coalitions and convincing, which lie on the side of several countries, especially the Visegrad Group, especially Hungary and Poland, have resulted in a good solution. It is a solution whereby the European Council, on a unanimous basis, as everyone knows, must speak on this issue. And comparing the previous records to today's... All you have to do is compare the records. Previous records: real dependence on so-called. The rule of law, we do not know who, and on what basis, would define it, and today's provisions on which we also strongly confirm that we want the funds to be spent honestly, because, High Izbo, a pretext or reason to discuss this subject at all, was the voice with which we fully agree that budgetary discipline, financial discipline, hard anti-corruption measures, which are the trademark of Law and Justice, [[Applause]] are reflected in the conclusions. And these actions are reflected in the conclusions, because we also wanted to do so. Ha, ha, ha! However, we also wanted those indeterminate procedures that have been developed within the Council of the European Union for more than 2 years not to be found. And they're not here. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the best thing about our victory in this respect is a few short quotes from the international press I mentioned. This is the Washington Post, which talks about the great victory of Hungary and Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo! Here we go: Rule of Law... Budget, Politico, which is a very often quoted portal of the European Union: Hungary got everything they wanted. They actually got everything they could imagine they'd want. Here is the "Euroactiv" Rule of Law Retreat.... Here, in turn, the New York Times, or quotes, which confirm that Poland and Hungary achieve their goals. It's just for your information. The press? TVP Info. But also, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show you how we have negotiated with this group of the most cheapest countries. Well, here are quotations from very well-known European economists, Paul De Grauwe, or various representatives of the world of politics who show that this group of the most cheapest countries at the same time benefits most from the European single market. He benefits by being such tax havens. It also benefits in such a way that it shapes regulations, shapes legislation mainly, it needs to be said, below itself. We have used these arguments in a very concrete way, in very many moments, creating coalitions, creating alliances and alliances that have finally helped us to convince both the European Commission and the whole European Council to our option, to our proposals, which were very different from what we had assumed. Everyone, of course, has very high goals. Both in the agricultural policy, the common agricultural policy, we received more money than six months ago, anyone else might have thought. In cohesion policy we received significantly more resources in the total pool, not only more than in the previous perspective negotiated by our political opponents, but more than just a few months ago anyone could have assumed. Similarly, measures are involved in energy transformation, in climate policy, which is so important for the European Union in the next decade. It's a huge extra money that wasn't on the table before. Six months ago, you could say, they weren't on the table. And progress in the negotiation process, in terms of conditions, paid off. Therefore, High Izbo, I would like to present today the results of our negotiations, to say that this is a good or even very good budget for Poland. He not only doesn't mean, as the opposition says, lost years, he means supporting our economic model, a sustainable economic model. And it means that the chance for a golden decade, for very good years before us, is significantly higher, because these measures will support the development of infrastructure throughout Poland. This is the compensation for farmers to the EU average, which is what we assumed. [[Applause]] Bravo! They will also support the processes we care about, i.e. Poland as a modern country, Poland, which benefits from innovation of others, but also develops its innovations. It develops areas of research, development, implementation of various solutions, because it is known that there are the highest margins, and they translate into higher salaries of our employees, higher salaries of our citizens, and this is the basic objective of our European policy, economic policy. Well, dear opposition, I think today is the time to smile. We must really smile at the success we have achieved. [[Applause]] Bravo! We need our additional resources, which are and which are no longer as significant a part of the investment process as before 7, 10 years ago, when it was actually the main portion, the main part in public investment... Today Poland has developed thanks to the sealing of the tax system, which has helped us to convince our partners in the European Union... [[Joy in the Chamber]] That argument... I know you don't like him very much, but dear people need to know that effective sealing of the tax system, the fight against VAT gaps, the fight against VAT mobs, which in the times of the Civic Platform ran around Poland, as they wanted, was an excellent argument for us. Why? Because that means that Poland successfully fought corruption... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...so you no longer need to implement new mechanisms, since we have shown how to fight corruption effectively, which has spread in Poland in previous years. These additional measures that we obtained from the sealing, together with the additional measures that we obtained in the EU negotiations, will constitute a key development injection for the Republic of Poland for the next 7 years. This is a great success of Polish diplomacy. I want to thank you from here. To thank our partners, partners from the Visegrad Group, but also from other countries of Central Europe, e.g. from Slovenia, because the voice of the Prime Minister of Slovenia was very, very important in this whole process. I would also like to thank all the ministers, the entire Council of Ministers, all our colleagues who were involved in this process. [[Applause]] Ministers built negotiating positions in specific areas. Thank you very much to you and your teams in ministries, resorts, agencies, cooperating institutions. Great material preparation, availability of materials for any negotiating circumstance - and there were hundreds of conversations, plenary sessions were dozens, counting the whole process over the last few months - this caused us to have hard arguments, hard, numerical, substantive arguments. They have dominated our victory and have also contributed to the fact that Poland is returning from this European summit together with other countries, mostly Central Europe, as a great winner. We can be very proud of the effectiveness of all our diplomacy, the effectiveness of the Council of Ministers, because it is a common cause and a joint victory. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] [[Some Members get up and clap]] [[Joanna Borowiak and Lydia Burzyńska's messengers give the prime minister flowers]] Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! Some Members chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u52	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anita Czerwińska. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Szczerba, I ask you very much to calm your emotions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today in Europe, anyone who knows mathematics would like to be a Pole. [[Applause]] These are the words of Prime Minister Orbán, who summed up the summit. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has won the most money for Poland in the history of our membership of the European Union, in a situation where the opposition has been threatening for years, that this money, these funds will be less or that there will be no money at all. You say that Poland is marginalized in the Union, that we mean nothing, that no one matters to us that we have no friends. If someone is watching some commercial stations, if someone is following some media in Poland, then this must be the impression. However, the best measure of our position in the European Union is the results of the summit - PLN 750 billion for Poland, an absolute record. [[Applause]] Today, the Platform says that Poland is a passive recipient of the summit's findings. Would a passive recipient be able to win this amount - once again, I will stress - PLN 750 billion? That's what we deserve. Yesterday's success is the result of more than 2 years of consistent diplomacy. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawicki started his first negotiations in 2018 and then started building an alliance for an ambitious budget. He led us not only to join the Visegrad Group, not only in our region, but in principle the whole Union. It was our opponents who found themselves in a minority, in a group of five countries of cheap people. This is Europe's policy, consistently building alliances, not waiting for France and Germany to allow. [[Applause]] As for the rule of law, this is a legislative mechanism in which there is a qualified majority, but it is still in the Treaty. If there was no agreement yesterday, the Commission could still submit a draft regulation to the Council of the Union for adoption by qualified majority, and even such a proposal was presented in May 2018, proposing a rule of law mechanism. What happened yesterday was a breakthrough because we added one additional condition to the legislative procedure: acceptance by the European Council, unanimous acceptance. [[Applause]] This is a situation that completely changes dynamics in our favor. Without the unanimous consent of all EU countries, sanctions are not involved. It's a success on the one hand... That's not true! ...but on the other hand it is to safeguard the interests of Poland, which are of a nature, even historical dimension, because the opposition, we know this from experience, would almost certainly try to lead to sanctions, because as we know, there are no scruples in this respect. [[Applause]] The best measure or one of the best indicators of this success is the mood in European and global media, among European and global politicians, among those who dislike, do not like Law and Justice. Everyone announced that Poland and Hungary won. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The mechanism of the rule of law, this political scarecrow of large countries against smaller ones, has been diluted, has become toothless. Who wrote this to you? We also have an example of media reactions in Poland. I guess it's the first time one of the big commercial stations doesn't quote foreign media. That's why. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I address the opposition, with particular emphasis on the Platform. Please, I urge you to allow your constituents to enjoy this success, because this is the success of Poles. All Poles will benefit from these measures on a level playing field. Do not tell your constituents that they have no right to be happy, to be satisfied with this success. Don't take them out, don't separate them from the community, because this is the success of the community. [[Applause]] Bravo! Do not tell your voters about this principle, that the worse it is for Poland, the better that Poland cannot be sovereign, that Poland cannot be strong, strong. It is, it's happening. Poland is strong, strong, sovereign. Enjoy it with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u54	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Boris Budek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Firstly, thank you, Prime Minister, for your firm attitude, for the negotiations and above all for not agreeing with the part of your political camp, to what you were led to, i.e. to veto the conclusions of this summit. I am pleased that, for the first time in this document, there have been as important records as those concerning the need to comply with the law. Yes, Prime Minister, the law must be respected. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, five years of your governments have shown that this is what must have been in the document. Why? Because our partners in the European Union know very well that there are countries where you can do the interest of living on masks in one day. Yes, I'm talking about a colleague of yours from the government. I'm talking about your government's way of buying ventilators and how it was done with abuse of law. Ha, ha, ha! There's one thing that bothers me. Prime Minister, if you are happy that the law should not be respected in Poland, I am ashamed for such a prime minister. If you call our partners in the European Union a group of cheap people and do so during negotiations, I really admire your approach to diplomacy. This is... Effective. Learn how to be effective, Mr President. ...to show how you treat the European Community. You didn't give me any specifics. Why? Because you would have to admit that for the Fair Transformation Fund, instead of EUR 8 billion, there are only 3 billion, that you even fooled the voters in Silesia, promising very large sums of money, and unfortunately it turns out to be a dream. Second thing. Are you proud that we will not pursue climate neutrality? After all, half the resources will be lost if your government continues to misconstrue that climate problems do not exist. You can't even count the euro into zlotys, because you're rounding the course up to 5 zlotys, unless you already have information that the zloty is about to weaken as a result of a growing budget hole. [[Applause]] Finally, we find it unacceptable. I think the Confederate colleagues are gonna talk more about it. Oh... Disgraceful! You have agreed to give up part of our sovereignty, because national programmes will be approved by other governments, and by a qualified majority. So you agreed that no matter what three-year programmes your government invented, it would still be at the level not of the European Commission, but the prime ministers would approve it. You gave part of our sovereignty in the name of PR and in the name of pretending to be successful. [[Applause]] That's not how you do it, Prime Minister. Finally, the myth of the Visegrad Group fell. Why weren't there four Visegrads? Why did you leave? Only with Prime Minister Orbán? You can't even bring this to an end, not even unity in the Visegrad Group. If the argument for the High House is to be clippings, tweets or stripes - it is good that not from TVP Info, at least that you have stopped - is this diplomacy? You have immeasurable information on this matter. Prime Minister! Contacts. Unfortunately, this summit was not a success for your government, but fortunately a great success for European solidarity. You have finally understood that European solidarity is about cooperation. You will talk to your constituents about hard negotiations, but we want concrete numbers. These numbers aren't there yet, because you know perfectly well that there's no budget. The second very important issue: these numbers are missing, because a large part of these funds will be loans. You're exactly an expert in credit, and I'm not here to argue with you, and you know that every credit has to be repaid. That's another thing. That's what gierek used to do. And finally, thank you for one thing. For the fact that there's a mechanism for linking to the rule of law. Why? Because our partners in the European Union know what you can do just to be out of control. If the Polish Minister of Justice blackmails you and says that you are to veto the summit because there is a rule of law, it shows the state of mind of part of your government camp. [[Applause]] Learn to obey the law, Prime Minister. Learn to understand that the mechanism of the rule of law is precisely so that you do not be unpunished so that you can not take millions from the state budget with masks contracts, respirator contracts (the bell) or throw 70 million PLN into the mud, just as your deputy Mr Sasin did. Empty words. That's too bad. We cross our fingers for the budget of the European Union, we believe that we will work together in the European Parliament and we will be able to do what you unfortunately failed to do, and this information shows that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u56	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Andrzej Szejna will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u57	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You signed an agreement in Brussels on Monday that is not in the way of your party colleagues: Zbigniew Ziebra and Jarosław Kaczyński, although they do not know it yet. But, Prime Minister, thank you very much for this signature. However, thanks to common European wisdom, Poland's participation in the distribution of extraordinary resources in the post-crisis economic recovery mechanism and in the long-term financial perspective will indeed be a huge opportunity for technological and development leaps. I stress: an opportunity, because for the time being you have brought a check to the Polish parliament in the shape of those you gave away without inhibitions in Andrzej Duda's campaign. The money guaranteed for the time being on paper still needs to be able to spend legally, in the spirit of the rule of law and for the purposes set out in the budgetary priorities of the European Union. Cohesion policy, infrastructure investments are welcome by you, but energy transformation and new green governance clearly do not fit, contrary to the health interests of Poles and Poles. I wonder if you, as a Member of Silesia, want to put your hand to death as a result of the smog of tens of thousands of citizens. Instead of using more than half of the Fair Transformation Fund, do you intend to look idly at Russian coal imports? Access to funds does not require the signature of an eco-target card, but their payment is directional, i.e. linked to green investments. At the summit in Brussels, you found that it is not enough to walk around Brussels salons in hand with Prime Minister Orbán and to plough into your own media. Unfortunately, on your own request, you went to Brussels not as one of the main players in the exclusive club G6, but as one of the defendants in the process of breaking fundamental European principles. But I'm glad you made it. In fact, out of your opposition to the rule of law in general and to the new climate objectives, you have made a lieutenant of your negotiations. Did you really want to convince the economical citizens of Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland, or did Germany to agree to a larger budget for any country that would break the rule of law and push the values of the European Union? It was a bad tactic and at the end of negotiations for the PiS government shock and disbelief. To this day it is unacceptable that this imaginary community, as the classic used to say, has decided to introduce a conditionality system aimed at protecting the budget and next generation. The Commission shall propose measures to safeguard the financial interests of the Union, in particular in accordance with the values set out in Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, to be adopted by the Council by a qualified majority. Prime Minister, by the Council of the European Union, not by the European Council. Decisions will not be blocked by one or two states, i.e. no rules of law, no money, but you repeat like a mantra behind the despaired Orbán that there are no provisions making payments of funds subject to compliance with the rule of law. That's not what all the other negotiating parties say. Head of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said, quote: The document is very clear in its commitment to the rule of law. Head of the European Council Charles Michel, quote: For the first time in European history, our budget will be clearly linked to our climate objectives. For the first time, respect for the rule of law is a decisive criterion for budgetary expenditure. There were two alternative realities: one - the Prime Ministers of Orbán and Morawiecki, the other - the leaders of the other countries and institutions of the European Union. It is a serious threat that the ink has not even dried up under the conclusions of the summit, and Poland and Hungary are starting a new conflict, where the billions are involved. I hope that this does not mean a desire to withdraw from the signed agreement, because we have to work hard in the European Parliament, where all political forces, Prime Minister, should lobby in the spirit of cooperation for these proposals. Unfortunately, there will be no better proposals for Poland, and the European Parliament has the right to reject the multiannual financial framework in its entirety. Prime Minister! This was not an ordinary summit in Brussels. It wasn't just about the money. Before our eyes, an agreement was reached, the implementation of which determines the future generations and shape of a new, possibly federally fiscally-fitted European Union. The Left believes in Europe as a political project, putting strong emphasis on social issues and concern for people. That is why we declare our support for our conscious and strong membership of the European Union. We also intend to ensure that every euro from European funds is spent in Poland in a cost-effective way, so that the authorities do not waste this historic opportunity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u58	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by the President of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We are happy with every euro that comes to Poland, but this success that you are announcing here is largely a success on credit, because a large part of this money is just grants, and these are also loans that you will have to pay back someday. That's the first thing. The second thing, however, is that Union is not so bad. This is a positive change that we see in your camp, because if Union money isn't bad, then the Union isn't that bad either. That's the denial of the bullshit some of you have been saying over the years. Third thing, we haven't heard the specifics of what these measures are going to do today. You have not confirmed, Prime Minister, the announcement of equalising direct payments to agriculture with French and German levels, and that was your promise five years ago. How much will go into the regions and who will spend the money? I hope that they will not only be spent centrally, but will have a decisive impact on the spending of these funds by local governments, and not by the party card of a given governor or mayor, but by the social needs of a given region. We will strive to improve this budget in the European Parliament so that it is even better for Poland. It's possible, it's the only place we need cooperation, and that's the kind of cooperation we're hoping for. The Prime Minister announces success and says that this is the best budget for Poland. Budget for Poland No 1 was negotiated before 2014. We had 25% of the Cohesion Fund and 11% the EU budget went to Poland. Now he's hitting 8.5, not counting the loans. This shows that even if we have achieved the objectives, it is good, not all of them, I think, because it is a mistake not to sign up for climate change, under climate neutrality... More money could then be obtained by Poland, and for 30 years technology will develop so that meeting this requirement will not be a problem. And one last thing. A lot of money is also a big responsibility, including the ability to spend, and you haven't shown it in the last few years. 30 billion from the common agricultural policy are still in banks in Brussels, not in Poland. You haven't used these resources, although the perspective is almost over. What guarantee do you give that you will make better use of these funds today? They have to go to local governments because you can't do it at central level. And one last question to the Prime Minister, using the presence of government representatives, also the Minister of Finance, which is rare. 100 billion deficit in the Polish budget? Maybe this is what we need to talk about, and this debate should not only concern the European budget, but also the Polish budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u60	Thank you very much. And Mr Andrzej Grzyb. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I think the numbers indicate that the proposal for Poland, which has been made, is good. No one's questioning that. We have no satisfaction in criticizing what is a fact. However, I think we should do this reflection here. Everyone announces that they have been successful - Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Rutte, Chancellor Kurz, says this also to the head of the current Presidency, Mrs Merkel, and Charles Michel, President of the European Council. Everyone's talking about success. There is a large gallery of those who have been successful, so it can really be said that the Union as a whole has been successful. Why? Because nothing has integrated the Union like COVID-19. Brexit didn't make that impression. It was the COVID-19 that integrated it. And this pressure that the multiannual financial framework and this recovery plan should be approved at the last European Council is the main cause. I think it is a good thing that this is the joint decision that budget adoption or proposals to the general budgetary framework have not been separated from this financial assistance. I think that's a good thing. Thus, the Union as a whole has shown that it is an institution that is not imaginary, but real. It allowed all those who took part in the European Council to succeed. This is the element of European negotiations - no one should be set to an angle. And I think that's an important message too. Secondly, this is 1.8 trillion euros. But in this there are 750 billion, which come from the financial markets. This money from the financial markets also Poland, participating in this, will have to pay back in due time. This repayment will start in 2028 and will last until 2058. So we should remember that, too. Moreover, there is still a tax decision. It is an additional carbon tax at the borders to be introduced. This is a good idea from the point of view of those who produce with greater emissions outside the European Union. There are other taxes: a plastic tax (the bell), which will be around EUR 0.8 per kilogram of plastic packaging or a digital tax. I think some are good and some are bad. But they too, so to speak... Thank you very much. ...will affect you. For what? Mr President, finish up. To pay, among others. the money, the financial commitments that will be incurred on the recovery plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u62	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will present the position of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Honourable Members! The amount that the Prime Minister is bragging about may indeed seem impressive. She's not little, no one's denying it. 160 billion in 7 years is about EUR 23 billion per year. This is roughly the equivalent of the annual total income of the Polish public sector. That's pretty much the equivalent of ok. 4% GDP from last year. A year. It's not a small amount, no one's saying otherwise. On the other hand, the fact that during the presentation of the results of this summit, the Prime Minister focused solely on this, shows that the Prime Minister wants to avoid talking about serious issues, which are contained in hundreds of points, conclusions from this summit. So let me fill in and present the assessment of the other things that the Prime Minister has kept quiet. Let's take a look at the experts' opinions. The influential left-wing French daily Le Monde is talking about strengthening integration, progress towards federalisation, increasing the common dependency of the European Union countries. One of the experts in Berlin think tank SWP talks about the progress of integration, which would not be possible if Britain were still in the European Union. So there are things that the Prime Minister agreed to, the PiS agreed, the government agreed, and the United Kingdom wouldn't agree. Prof. Grosse, one of the best specialists in European integration in Poland, associated with the Sobieski Institute, i.e. think tank associated with PiS, commented on these results, said that such fiscal construction moves us towards the federal state. Jakub Majmurek, from the political critics of the Polish Radio 24 this morning, praised for moving the European Union towards the federal one. The conclusion is that you realized at this summit, with the hurrahoptimism of Polish right-wing voters who tied their hopes with PiS, the federal scenario, the scenario that always supported the Left, as we have just heard here, and the Civic Platform. It is a scenario for centralising the European Union. New mechanisms have been created that have never before been in Europe's history and have always been controversial. It is a Community debt-taking mechanism. In our view, such a thing requires consent on the basis of an article. 90 Polish Constitution. It is not possible for the Prime Minister to go and agree to move, to introduce new competences of the Polish state, e.g. on budgetary policy, without the consent of the Polish Sejm and without referendum. It's a game changer. [[Applause]] This is not what the Poles agreed to in the accession treaty. Let us remind you that the issue of the so-called issue. Eurobonds are a matter that has been blocked by the German Constitutional Court over the last decade. I wonder if the Polish Constitutional Tribunal will deal with this matter. Another issue is the creation of new Eurotaxes. The Prime Minister has been presenting himself as a proponent of tax making at European level for several months. It is a clear sign that the PiS is an extremely pro-Union party, not a moderate but extremely pro-Union party, [[Applause]] which wants to create new pan-European instruments. I do not blame the Prime Minister for this because I know the Prime Minister as a longtime Euro-enthusiast. You advised Prime Minister Tusk, you supported the introduction of the euro in Poland before the financial crisis, as did Jarosław Kaczyński, who announced this many years ago at the Economic Forum in Krynica. I remember all this, so I can't blame myself. I may resent some of the Members from the back benches of the PiS who believe in Polish sovereignty do not believe in the European Union and at the same time support all of this. On the other hand, voters have the right to know what's going on backstage. [[Applause]] You're saying you negotiated the right terms. I would like to add that the conclusions contain negotiated reductions in the EU contribution for countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden, Germany. For Germany, this is a reduction of more than EUR 3.5 billion. This means an increase in the EU contribution for Poland, as these reductions negotiated for these richest countries are to be covered by contributions from all other Member States. Now the moment about Eurotaxes, because Poles have the right to know what is coming to us and what the Polish government agreed to. In turn - in these conclusions this is called enigmatic: own resources, the point is that the Union creates own resources - there will be a plastic tax, a CO2 tax It is difficult to count the things that you have agreed to and which extend the competences of the European Commission. The rule of law is a cherry on a cake. We're gonna argue for years about what you've agreed, because it's extremely unclear. We'll be in the defense. Thank you very much. We'll be in defense, explaining that we're not a country of lawlessness. This is the situation you've put us through. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u64	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the European Union summit is a very big success of Poland, the success of the entire government, but above all the success of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who won huge money for Poland. It's a really big success. We are thus opening a new chapter, because with these measures from the European Union we will catch up with Western European countries. This success, which is very visible, is based on two very strong arguments, but also on very important alliances. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, honourable opposition, we have managed to create as broad a coalition as possible: all 27 countries have agreed to those provisions that have been proposed. It is also a huge victory of the Visegrad Group. It is 3 billion extra money for poor regions of Poland - a huge success. The isolation that the opposition is constantly talking about can really be inserted [[♪ The bell ♪]] between fairy tales. The fact that you've always reported Poland... Join this white-red team today, be behind Poland. [[Applause]] Andrzej Duda did it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u66	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Thank you, Prime Minister, for a few days of undoubtedly difficult negotiations. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you for not vetoing the agreement, as other ministers have advised you. Now I'm gonna ask for more details. One of the priority issues from the point of view of the Polish state is the Fair Transformation Fund. Poland had and still has a chance to become one of the biggest beneficiaries of the programme. The bad news from the summit was that this budget was cut from €40 billion to €10 billion. The bad news for Poland was therefore cutting our part of the fund to around EUR 3 billion, and the conclusions from the summit assume that half of this amount may be stopped for countries that do not commit themselves to the objective of climate neutrality 2050. We know that Poland is such a country. Prime Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] I believe you won't lose that fund. What are you gonna do in the next few months so you don't lose half of the Fair Transformation Fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Probably, the Prime Minister with the Polish Government has achieved the maximum of what could be achieved, because all negotiations, however, rely on compromise and simply cannot achieve everything you want. My question is this. There are a number of issues that undoubtedly need clarification, which are what has actually been signed. First thing: Is there a question in this agreement that has been signed concerning the Paris Agreement with the Ub. R., concerning climate neutrality as the direction to which all countries signing agreements will seek? The second point is that of the Cohesion Fund. I'd like information on that. The Prime Minister signalled something about the eastern wall, while Poland is not just the eastern wall, so I would ask for information on how many local governments will benefit from it. Third thing (The Bell): Is it true that it is stated that 30% of the funds from the Reconstruction Fund are for climate change purposes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I think that we would need systematicisation: what I am going to say is the subject of the European Council's agreement, which is enshrined in this agreement and which is still the subject of long-term negotiations. After all, the budgetary authority is the Council of the European Union and Parliament, so this is where it will take place, as will the matter of the broad rule of law. I wanted to ask you, among other things. on the issue of compensation. On the one hand, you say, Prime Minister, that there is a decision to compensate for the payments, and on the other hand it is said that this case will only happen from 2022 and that there will be six stages in the application for aid, so this issue is not yet decided. Similarly, with regard to the amount of the Cohesion Fund. I think that when it comes to these prices, we should not give current prices, only fixed prices, then we would have a benchmark. Then we'd avoid it sometimes, so to speak, [[♪ The bell ♪]] collisions of our interpretations. We often talk about fixed prices, and we often talk about current prices, and then these are completely different figures on the amount of individual quotas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u73	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Prime Minister, I will address you directly. Well, you came back from Brussels, announcing success, announcing that you guaranteed Poland over PLN 740 billion. It's just a fact, but when we divide it into eight years, it's a bit lower, around 90 billion. At this price you also accepted the risk of making these payments dependent on the rule of law, on the establishment of taxes at EU level or from imposing objectives of climate neutrality. Hence my very specific question: Will this European Green Deal, which is also announced here, be in force in the area of agriculture and will our payments from the European Union depend on it? And the second question is: Why are the cheap countries these countries? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is it Sweden, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria and why isn't Poland there? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 750 billion PLN - so much money was negotiated by Prime Minister Morawiecki for our country, for Poland. And with great bangs fall the myth that the policy of submission, of being patted on the back, the policy of obeying orders would be more effective. You're boring. I just want to remind you that this is your leader, your sun Peru, this is the policy he represented. Sir, forwards, not backwards. It turns out that a policy that is tough, but based on alliances and skillful negotiations, is much more beneficial to our country. So watch and learn. I don't think you understand. Dear opposition, which you are without a vision of the shape of any views. Because you have to rule not only to want - and as for the fact that you want to rule, there is no doubt - you have to rule first and foremost. ♪ The bell ♪ Therefore, Prime Minister, the question is: How did they achieve such great negotiating success? Thank you very much. Joy in the O.R., applause.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you are boasting that we are the largest beneficiary of the Cohesion Fund, but you forgot to add that in the previous perspective we were too. You say that our partners are cheap, but it is precisely this largest share of Poland in the Cohesion Fund that best shows that they present great European solidarity. You are propagandizing success, but you have really lost twice, because first of all, we have a rule of law condition and good, because the rights must be respected, and second of all, Poland will have limited access to money from the energy transformation fund, which means, among other things, that Poland will have limited access to money from the energy transformation fund. My region of Eastern Greater Poland, but also the one you represent here, in Parliament, Silesia, will lose huge money from the Fair Transformation Fund. Prime Minister! Finally abandon the alternative reality and start really taking care of the interests of Poles and Poles, but also future generations, and stop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] questioning the need to combat climate change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u79	High Izbo! Prime Minister! Poland needs a strong, solidarity-based Europe, and that is why I will not join Mr Budka and Mr Bosak's nose in European tax cooperation as regards taxes that protect the environment, because this cooperation is needed. It's a good thing you didn't listen to the voices of the radicals from your camp who wanted to block them. But Prime Minister, the joy of this summit is much less if you look at the details. Because if we look at the expenditure on modernization, if we look at the expenditure on climate, on digitization, on health research, then compared to the original shape, these expenses have been cut off. Funds are cut for the Horizon 2020 programme, which means much less money for learning, including for Polish science. There are funds cut for fair transformation, for European health cooperation, i.e. to raise the level of health protection, also in Poland. My question is very simple. Other countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result of this form of agreement, they are now working on how to add money from the national budget to these developmental, forward-looking parcels. My question is this: Do you have a programme ready to balance the negative effects of the summit in this respect? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u81	Prime Minister! It could've been worse, but it's not okay. You mix different resources, you add so-called. the multiannual financial framework 2021 and 2027, which you combine with funds from the reconstruction fund. These are different measures, in different ways financed, because different are also money. So we need to compare the perspective of 2014 and 2020 with the financial perspective 2021 and 2027. This must be compared not at current prices, but at fixed prices and then separately show the reconstruction fund. Then there'll be a real picture of the information. Because current prices give a completely different picture than fixed prices. [[Applause]] Finally, when we talk about fixed prices, it turns out that we have much less if we do not take into account the recovery fund, which is another fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 750 billion are also loans that need to be repaid, but these are also our contributions that we are making to the Union, which are going to be higher each year, which is normal. You have to talk net, you have to speak truth, you have to speak truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the context of the European Union Summit, the principle is that Poland will follow and achieve climate neutrality at its own pace, which is undoubtedly the success of the Prime Minister's negotiations. In this connection, please bring all Poles closer to how this will be done practically, what we avoided, and what we were threatened with if the Prime Minister had not negotiated it. High Izbo! It is undoubtedly a success to negotiate as high amounts as Poland will receive, and I have a very big dream that you will not disturb and help in spending this money. Thank you, Prime Minister, on behalf of all Poles and Poles for restoring Poland's proper place in the European and global arena. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, however, Poland took the right place in the negotiations, as we are witnessing. It is undoubtedly a success to obtain so many billions of euros for the further development of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u84	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Zalewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It is a great success of a united, strong, Community Europe, but he has shown that unfortunately Poland in this Europe is not a strong country. A strong country, Prime Minister, is a country that does not become sideways or turn away from the problems that are being discussed but is involved in solving them. Why did you threaten the veto of the rule of law system when it was already introduced instead of working to construct it so that it would actually be objective and unarbitrary politically, for example. was associated with the case law of the Luxembourg Court? Why are you misleading Poles by talking about some involvement of the European Council in this system when it does not take place? Unfortunately, Prime Minister (The Bell) is as much a lie as the lie of Minister Fotygi of 2007 about the great success of President Lech Kaczyński in the negotiations on the European Treaty. Knock on the forehead. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome. Will your marshal want to react to what Marshal Terlecki said? You're welcome, my fellow Member. The words "knock on the forehead" are absolutely unworthy of a member... Mr President, that's what the ethics committee is for. Please report it to the ethics committee. That's what you're for, Marshal. You should be minding some minimum decency in this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Ethicals, the Committee on Ethics. You're welcome, my fellow Member. We're not on you, Marshal. No, we never were. A little class would be nice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u87	High Izbo! Prime Minister! In the conclusions of the summit there is a provision addictive to the payment of 50% appropriations from the Fund for Fair Transformation from the State's commitment to meet the objective of climate neutrality. Cutting the fund by 20 billion could mean reducing subsidies for Polish mining regions from €8 billion to €5 billion. The lack of commitment by the Polish government to achieve the objective of climate neutrality will mean that the remaining amount will be halved. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'm talking to the Prime Minister. Can you please don't disturb me so I can get an answer? This amount will be reduced to EUR 2.5 billion. Poland is the only country that does not meet this condition. Prime Minister, I ask: Will Poland sign the objective of climate neutrality, or does it intend (the bell) to deprive half of the funds from the just transformation fund? And even when a regional strategic transition plan for Silesia is prepared, because this is a condition by which we can obtain resources for this purpose, as set out in the Paris agreements? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u88	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ministers! From this point on, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his hard and very effective work for Poland and Poles and for obtaining such significant resources for our homeland. I would also like to thank you on behalf of farmers, [[Applause]] because there is a great chance that at last this great injustice, which was taken up and signed by the Polish People's Party, will end when we entered the European Union. Don't lie to me! I would like to ask, what funds will be allocated to Polish agriculture? What is the scale of these measures in this financial perspective? Thank you again, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! If they compared apples with apples and not apples with oranges, what you just did, the Civic Platform in 2013 negotiated 90 billion PLN more than the PiS today. We - EUR 118 billion, you - EUR 96 billion. Polonist math. This is not even math, Madame, these are simple bills. 118 is more than 96. [[Applause]] And do you know why we said that the ending perspective is the last such generous one for Poland? Because we thought Poland would develop as quickly and as quickly as for 8 years of government of the Civic Platform, the countries of Western Europe will catch up. Ha, ha, ha! Meanwhile, during your reigns, we catch up with the countries of Western Europe twice as slowly, which is why we are still a poor country, and the poor get more, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there's nothing to be happy about again. [[Applause]] It's so perverse.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u92	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u93	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! This is a good time for Poland. President Andrzej Duda was re-elected in the presidential election and Poland will still have the President of Polish cases. [[Applause]] About. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki achieved a huge success, negotiating in Brussels over PLN 750 billion for Poland and Poles. As we know, President Andrzej Duda is cooperating with the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This is very good for the future of Poland. This success of the Prime Minister appreciates abroad, appreciates foreign media, appreciates foreign politicians. I just don't know why in the Polish Seym we don't see, we don't see the smiley faces of the opposition, we see discontent, we see sadness on our faces. Why is it so, Prime Minister, that the Polish opposition cannot enjoy the success of its own homeland? Opposite, get started. [[♪ The bell ♪]] enjoy the success of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u94	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Four days of negotiation. Some say it's heavy, some say we're alive. During these 4 days, Prime Minister, such regions in Poland as Silesia, Lower Silesia, Eastern Wielkopolska, Lubuskie, Małopolska and Łódzkie, the Belchatov region, have especially held your thumbs. They hoped for efficient, energetic and effective negotiations. You're coming in today and declaring success. I, on behalf of the inhabitants of Silesia, especially from whom you are an MEP, ask you: Where is this success? It was supposed to be €40 billion, there's $10 billion. There was supposed to be 8 billion for Poland, there are less than 3 billion, and in connection with the provisions of item 100 of the declaration we still have a problem (the bell) whether we will receive 3 billion or 1.5 billion. Prime Minister, as you will compensate for the lost resources for the regions affected by mining, the mining damage, the jobs... Thank you, sir. ...for energy transformation under the Fair Transformation Fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u96	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Your Marshal, however, I would like to start by referring to what happened just moments ago, because, in the presence of Mr Zalewski, the Vice-Marshal, we are all insulted by Mr Zalewski, and you are not even responding. What are the rules, what rules... That's a gentle word. Very gently said. Look at Nitras. You really have to stop, Mr. Marshal. What are the rules here? Once there was a personal culture, or at least the marshal leading drew attention, even if it was the Vice-Marshal. But you are insulted and no one reacts. It's not an insult, it's true. I'd like to remind you... So here you go, marshal, in this case somehow... ...how your club behaved during the performance of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Now, going to the Prime Minister's question. You fought like you wanted your own life so you wouldn't depend on the rule of law on the payment of funds. Question to the Prime Minister: What were you afraid of? What are you guys up to for Poles in the fall? If you don't know, ask Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński what you're up to. Because it wasn't without a goat that you did it with a stamp in your lap (the bell) of Law and Justice. But I still have a second question. You said you were able to negotiate more. Well, I'd like to check out that math class. Proceed to the end. 72.9 billion for cohesion, 28.5 billion for cohesion billions for agriculture. That was 101.4 billion. Thank you, sir. Give me 20 seconds more. I'm just finishing up. But for what reason, sir? For what? For what reason, sir? For politics... Time's up. No, really, you're crossing... Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Your marshal, I had to stand up for the MP. You should do it here on the stand today. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Applause]] You didn't even notice the marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u98	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. But, sir, you've used your time. I extended your speech by half a minute, didn't pay much attention. Really, sir, let us respect each other. Let's respect each other. I, believe me, always show respect. Let me finish one sentence, one last sentence. You've really gone through a lot of time. But are we going to discuss it now? Excuse me, this discussion is over. But why would you do that? Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition... Excuse me, Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The conclusion of the agreement was in the interest of Poland and it is good that this agreement is because this is what we have all been waiting for. Today, on the other hand, we expected specific information from the Prime Minister about the findings of this summit, and that was lacking. The Prime Minister boasts about the loans. Prime Minister, money is cheap today and loans can always be borrowed, but they have to be paid back later. We're interested in how much you negotiated in grants. In comparison, only for cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy in the previous perspective, which is now in force, we had over €116 billion, cohesion policy - over 83, common agricultural policy - 32.5. Local government officials are asking how much will be available for regional programmes. In the current perspective, this is €31.5 billion. Counting 5 zlotys per euro, as you've counted here, that's about 160 billion zlotys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Entrepreneurs are waiting for information about the amount for development, for grants for them. In today's perspective, these measures are... Go ahead and finish it. Time's up. ...close to €9 billion for infrastructure and the environment. Where are the details? Where are the details, Prime Minister? Thank you very much, sir. You're hiding them because either you don't know them or they're just very pathetic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u100	Okay, the question's been asked. Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today, clean air and ecology must be a priority for the Polish government. Unfortunately, Polish cities are leading the list of the most polluted, and we have learned that the Prime Minister is coming from just EUR 3 billion, not EUR 8, which were originally planned for a fight to support ecology. Prime Minister! I am a Member of the Silesian Voivodeship, just like you, but I live in the Silesian Voivodeship and know what breathes there, and basically what chokes us. You don't know that, because if you knew that, I'm sure you'd put the fight against smog and the fight for clean air among the priorities of your government. Ha, ha, ha! Sadly, many of us die of air pollution every year. Today, as a young generation, Prime Minister, we expect the Polish government to think about the future, that we will not reheat the old disputes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time to change our minds and head for the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition. I can't see. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member. You're an MP. Good. Please watch your time, sir, because we are waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u103	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! I would like to ask about the fundamental thing in the negotiations, which is how our tactics and the negotiating strategy were, what was really our plan for this summit. Was our plan to demonstrate communication with Hungary and the community of interests with only one European country? Because what is characteristic of our European policy recently is the lack of our initiatives, the lack of our ideas, the lack of our proposals and merely presenting Poland's position as a country dissatisfied with what is happening in the European Union. So please say: What concretely serious initiatives in the European forum - and by whom have they been supported - have Poland submitted in recent years? Who really supports us besides Hungary? What have we come up with in the field of energy, climate? Who and what did he say, yes, you Poles are right, can we play with you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u104	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u105	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about negotiations, we should consider these negotiations from two points of view: the first - money, the second - principles. Or vice versa - rules and money. On the Cohesion Fund, in the perspective of the end of the 2014-2020 period, we said that in proportion to the entire European budget, this is more money than what the Prime Minister said. But I'm gonna talk about the rules. You have not been told either today from this tribune, Prime Minister, how you will defend the rule of law, so that your ministers, your fellow parties, do not break the rules in force so that we are not exposed to conflict with the European Union for this reason. I did not hear it, and I would like to hear it, and I think that Poles also, when you decide when the government will decide to join a fair climate change (the bell) and when we will know about this problem. These are the rules, above all the rules of fair play. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u106	Thank you, Member. That concludes the questioning. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs will answer questions on behalf of the Government. European Minister Konrad Szymański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There have been a number of topics that have been raised, so cross-cutting that I would like to give a collective answer. First of all, the problem of cuts. This is a real problem because, in fact, when the draft multiannual financial framework was first presented two years ago, everyone in the European Union was amazed to note that this is the first time that even the European Commission does not want to defend an ambitious, large, properly formulated budget in terms of scale. But we knew that this was not the end of the problems, because, as it turns out, the internal situation in the European Union is changing in such a way that we are dealing with a growing number of countries which, indeed, since Christmas and on a daily basis are willing to declare pro-European declarations, but when it comes to formulating a common financial response, they look at the ceiling. Sometimes it gets worse, sometimes they look not only at the ceiling, but also actively attack even as modest budget proposals as those presented by the European Commission. Poland was not in this group. Poland, like the majority of the Member States of the European Union, also like the European Parliament, which may surprise you, has sought to make the budget sufficiently large over the past two years. When the economic problem arose, especially as a consequence of the pandemic, we said it even more strongly. When we saw that there was a trial, there was a plan for this epochal problem, a dramatic problem of the economic consequences of a pandemic to be solved by pretending, we said it loudly, so loudly that some, even in this House, it hurt. We said out loud that the problem of pandemics must meet an adequate response not only in terms of scale, which today, also due to the assertive attitude of such capitals as Warsaw, Paris, Rome, has actually reached a level that enjoys Polish support, but also in terms of the internal architecture of this response. This architecture, in our view, should definitely be based on grants. I think there is no one in this House who would question the meaning of such an activity, not the one based solely on financial editing, as it was in April, when we also heard about huge sums. To this day, they are not dressed in a costume of regulations and decisions, but they all come down to financial editing only. It's not the new money in the game. Thanks also to the attitude of countries such as Poland today, not as much as we have to look at the problem of the multiannual financial framework, which has been misrepresented from the outset, together with the European reconstruction instrument, which has radically improved our individual situation, but also improved the European Union's response to the existential problems not only of the European Union but of Europe, of our Member States. This has been met with a well-known reaction, I think, that is, the continuing pressure on cuts, despite the disastrous economic consequences of the pandemic. They do it, as I said, the same countries that not only wave the European flag on a daily basis, but are willing to account for others with Europeanity, including Warsaw. We've had quite a lot of experience in this area over the last four years. In short, if you are looking for answers, why the budget is not as big as it could be, please pay attention to several other capitals, not to Warsaw, not to the Polish government, because we were on the right side of both economic reasons and political reasons. Finally, when we were close to the agreement, we had to focus not only on the general solution but above all on defending our own interests. That indicator that was mentioned here, the cut pointer, it says everything. Unfortunately, I repeat: we have never supported this; we have touched 22% of the European Instrument for Reconstruction grant. These cuts in the case of Poland amounted to only 3% and this is a measure of success, one of many measures of success of negotiations. Because it was no longer a question of offer, kindness, European solidarity, it was a question of a sharp collision between political and economic reasons in the European Council. I think it should be remembered that in this negative trend, which is generated in other capitals, not in Warsaw, we maintained the defence of Polish interests and Polish participation in this construction. There is no way to judge these two instruments separately, it would be completely bizarre. This instrument of reconstruction, like the multiannual financial framework, is based on a single decision, a decision of this House as well. It is a decision on the European Union's own resources. This is the only source we have on which the budget and the reconstruction instrument are based. So not only for political reasons, but also for important reasons, because we have been working on two instruments in parallel, but also for purely formal reasons, we need to consider together where the money is going. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's been moved here... Do I have a limited period of time? But answer the questions, Minister. The Parliamentaries asked them, so... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs European Konrad Szymański: Much of the questions concerned the reasons for the cuts, which is why I focused on this at the beginning. Okay, I'll answer them briefly. The issue of taxes was raised here. We were scared of European federalization, building some superstate. Honestly, if that were true, I would have joined those voices because I am not in favour of a federal Europe. I am not in favour of solutions that transfer fiscal competence to a transnational level. They should stay here, in the Polish Parliament, but also in German, Dutch, Slovak, there is no doubt about it. It is only in order to interpret the decisions we are dealing with today that we need to interpret them in a very ideological way. There is no shift in competence in who creates taxes. There is no change in competence, there is no change in who is responsible for the debt. Those who drag him are responsible for the debt. In particular, the debt that has been created before shall be incurred where it has been created in the capitals of the Member States. There's no change here. This one-off, I stress: the European Union's one-off debt act for the purpose of achieving the development objectives of the European Union as a whole is under the strict control of the Member States and is the subject of a unanimous decision by the Member States. Therefore, the story of the federation is simply very uncanny. And the most important thing. It is true that Poland does not exclude support for the Union's own resources - if any, it can call it taxes, although it is a name for growth - which would have two effects: firstly, the reduction of the Polish contribution directly from the budget, secondly, and perhaps the most important, the creation of a great financial capacity on the part of the European Union, which Poland is simply a beneficiary. This can be seen throughout the process of agreeing, seeking these conclusions. Poland, let us admit that almost alone, has effectively opposed the introduction of a resource based on the ETS, which would cause very serious losses in the Polish budget. That's not an idea. This idea is written down as possible in the future, sometime, somewhere. We agree that we can talk about this until the end of the world. On the other hand, we are keenly interested in adopting own resources which will make the financial flows from Poland to the European Union smaller and the transfer capacity will increase. I think it's pretty obvious that there are solutions that would have exactly this effect. And we will be constructively, without ideological glasses, taking part in discussions in this area. Today and tomorrow. And it is true that we are seeking solutions that would actually bring relief on the part of the Polish budget and the effect of strengthening financial opportunities on the part of the European Union. If we already agree that we have to judge everything together, apart from the fact that we have stopped the wave of cuts in relation to the Polish position, we have created a system that has brought us the effect of essentially doubling the possible transfers towards Poland in relation to what we have been dealing with in the last 7 years, in the years 2014-2020. So I think we should at least put an end to this discussion with facts and figures that are absolute. At least in this one case, we could all agree that this is just a giant success. Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] It has rightly been pointed out here that the very wrong thing is to limit the possibility of financing a fair transition. We are attached to this because it was Poland that brought the concept of a fair transformation to the international debate. It was in Katowice that the then president of the United Nations Climate Conference, Minister Michał Kurtyka, first raised this subject, that climate transformation, climate objectives must meet the criterion of justice. It is not only a purely and exclusively financial issue, it is also a question of social costs, for example energy poverty, which is a potential problem also in Poland. We're pretty sure of that. We have introduced this topic to the EU level. If you really want to compare what the Fair Transformation Fund looks like today, and what it originally looked like, you have to compare it to the value of 0 euro, because in the original proposal of the European Commission of 2018 it was 0 euro. It was our emphasis that first emerged the first concept of the Fair Transformation Fund, where there was EUR 2 billion, and today we are landing with the result of EUR 3.5 billion. I know that there have been a lot of ideas on the paper that we supported, I admit, we supported it with conviction, which suggested that there might be more. But ask the other capitals why they cannot accept that the European Union simply needs more money. These cuts must have affected the positions of the individual countries. In the case of Poland they have reflected as little as possible and this should be appreciated. There was an important question about how Poland has implemented, implemented its key interests in these negotiations over the last 2 years. I'd love to tell you more about it, but at least that's all I can say. With regard to cohesion policy, Poland has recreated a coalition of cohesion friends, 17 countries, which have jointly pointed out from the beginning to the end that cohesion policy cannot be the victim of ideological fashion, political fashion and development needs of other countries. I think we've got our primary target. The cuts in cohesion policy have been blocked and additional money in the European reconstruction instrument has been designed for similar purposes. The second thing is the common agricultural policy. It was on the initiative of Warsaw, Minister Ardanowski, that a coalition of countries was created, which effectively blocked the loss of money in this part of the budget. The last thing - the common market, the future of the common market. Here the coalition was completely different, but it's 17 countries again. Recently, a coalition on the future of pharmaceutical policy. One of the tasks 1 after the crisis, when we saw how big our dependence on supplies from third countries is, not always interested in making Europe the best possible. On this issue, we are in the coalition of seven countries to ensure that pharmaceutical production, medical equipment, is subject to progressive Europeanisation. All the important things in these negotiations were implemented by Poland in wider, sometimes very wide groups of countries. It is not only the Visegrad Group, which, I think, the Sejm should also be given full recognition, because this regional loyalty has been confirmed in confidence, not only at the level of the declaration, but in a specific negotiating battle. This isn't just about Hungary. But if you ask more, I would stress: 17 countries, 16 countries, seven countries on the CAP, six more countries on the pharmaceutical strategy. Poland is not entirely alone in any of its cases, on the contrary. It all consists of one basic thesis, which should sound the strongest, especially among those complaining and searching for a hole in the whole. There are countries that emerge from these negotiations as the main beneficiaries, one of the main beneficiaries of the European Union budget. There are also those who are satisfied with the only European reconstruction instrument. Poland is the country which is the main beneficiary of the multiannual budget and the instrument of reconstruction. This is the measure of Polish success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956 (prints Nos 452 and 500). I would like to ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956, print No 452. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to move the discussion outside the plenary room and allow you to present a report. At its 14th meeting, the Sejm held on 16 July 2020 pursuant to Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 21 July 2020, asks: The High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u110	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Borowiak will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to you the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law by President Andrzej Duda on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. The Act is in print No 452. The project presented by President Andrzej Duda is to make amends to those Polish citizens who were sent or deported to inhuman soil in 1939 and 1956 to the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. The bill, so much expected by the sibiraks and their loved ones, is based on the draft by the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, a project that the Platform with PSL rejected twice, refused to accept twice, in 2009 and 2013. I am delighted that today, with the present presentation, we have managed to develop the support of the opposition Members for this project, which was also shown yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Neither the Soviet Union nor Russia today have confessed to the harm done. They were not tried and did not pay compensation for extermination of hundreds of thousands of Poles. This has persisted for years, despite the fact that the International Military Court in Nuremberg considered forced resettlement crimes. Today, thanks to President Andrzej Duda, the Polish state stands for its citizens and wants to fulfil its commitments to those repressed who have survived this difficult time. It's our duty to them. To date, compensation has not covered all Polish exiles, therefore the primary objective of the presidential bill is to eliminate the existing inequalities and to satisfy the legitimate claims of Polish citizens who have suffered enormous suffering. The satisfaction referred to in the draft law will consist of a single payment of money, and its amount will correspond to the duration of the exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The benefit will be awarded in the amount of PLN 200 for each month subject to repression in the years 1939-1956, but the amount paid will not be less than PLN 2400 according to the draft law. According to the data of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the number of persons who could obtain the benefit is around 22 000. Taking into account the amount of the benefit - for each month subject to repression - i.e. 200 PLN, which the draft law refers to, the average amount of the benefit for one person would be at the level of 13 200 PLN. Given the number of people who would benefit from the Act, the burden on the state budget due to the implementation of the project would not exceed PLN 300 million. The Presidential bill complementing the laws in force in Poland concerning sibiracs is very important for social reasons, but above all for dignity reasons. Many Sibirians who have survived this hell on inhuman soil now live in very poor conditions. These are the elderly, most often severely ill. President Andrzej Duda's bill aims at symbolic recognition of the harms and pains sent and deported to the USSR, but this also applies to their families, their loved ones. The adoption of the proposed solution will highlight the merit of the Sibiraks, will be financial support, but will also try to make amends to those sent to Sibir for the lost years of their lives. I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda very warmly for this project, so much expected by the Sibirak community, as well as their families, supporting the elderly who have experienced great suffering in their lives. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the presidential bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u112	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Joann Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club on the presidential draft law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill provides for the granting of a cash benefit to citizens sent or deported to the Soviet Union in 1939 and 1956, who have so far received no compensation for suffering. The proposed provisions lay down the granting of compensation, the circle of persons entitled to receive compensation and the amount and method of granting the benefit. The bill provides for the payment of one-off cash benefits. His Majesty will depend on his time of exile or deportation in the Soviet Union. For each month of the period under repression in the years 1939-1956, 200 PLN will be due, but not less than 2400 PLN. The average time during deportation or camp in the Soviet Union in the case of sibiracs was about 66 months. Therefore, the average amount of single benefit may be PLN 13 200 for one person. In order to be compensated, the persons concerned will have to submit an appropriate application to the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the project is a response to the demands of the sibirak community, in which it was signalled that they live their days often under very difficult conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! The law is needed because it aims to bridge the existing inequalities and enable the right claims of Polish citizens sent or deported to the Radzitski Union to be met, and it will also satisfy the social sense of justice. It should be adopted as soon as possible, as further delay may result in many people not using its records. A year and a half of delay made it impossible for about 2600 sibiraks to benefit from this benefit. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Six amendments were adopted during the work of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. These amendments were designed to clarify some of the provisions of the project and to eliminate interpretation doubts. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Czerniak will speak on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome. There isn't. In that case, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome. Your Marshal, you cannot join the Member. We'll wait a minute. There was no information. Maybe because there are problems, we'll change the order. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u115	Perhaps acceleration, Mr. Marshal, quite large. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! It is good that we have acceleration, but in the scope of this project we need acceleration. Before I spoke on behalf of PSL-Kukiz15, the Polish Coalition, I had doubts that this project would not go into the seym freezer. Such doubts were also raised by the interested parties themselves, so the sibiracs, because an example of the previous project... And it is not only the Platform and the Polish People's Party or the Left, because it is also about the last project. So? It's the PiS 'cause the presidential project that hit... You've had most of it for five years. The president promised in his election campaign that the case would be handled and the PiS blocked the presidential project in the freezer. It's a good thing it happened right now, that the project at a very fast pace... Besides, there was a proposal to proceed without referring to the committee. We thank the committee for taking care of him in no time. Finally, this project, on a limited scale, will come in. In the first version it was twice as much, 400 PLN, not 200 PLN per month. But it's a good thing he's coming in, because if we waited another term, there wouldn't be anyone to pay. Thank you very much. I think the sibirates will be grateful to everyone. Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will support this project because it is a good and expected project. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u116	We very much thank Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, who presented the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Thank you. Yes. In view of the difficulties in connecting with Mr Czerniak, Mr Wieczorek will speak on behalf of the club Lewis, but... Now? No, I can do it later. If the Member is ready to speak, please do so. No, I'll listen to the Confederation first, because maybe I'll have someone to refer to then. So it's a culture. In that case, we ask Mr Michael Urbaniak, who will present the position of the Committee of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u117	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If the Sejm had always been as compatible as this project, the world would have been more beautiful. I am pleased that such a project has been submitted by your President at all. Basically, this project must be viewed as symbolic, because we will make amends to those who have just been wronged by fate, not necessarily by the Polish state. We are talking here about almost a million citizens who have remained, at different stages, in four large deportations of the population transferred into the USSR. We can even talk about Silesians who were also exported during the Upper Silesian tragedy, and for example. The miners had to work at Donetsk. On 17 September each year, the Sibirak Union meets in Szymbarek in Pomeranian Voivodeship, in Kashubia. It has to be made clear: these people, these sibiracs who come there, are getting less and less every year, so the time to process this law is important here. This must actually be made clear, but there is an aspect to which I would also like to address and which, I think, we should change a bit. Art. 3 of this project is about those who have already received compensation - these people will not be able to avail themselves of the provisions of this law at this time. Well, you have to take it. Considering that since the '90s, when some people have been compensated by court cases, after the verdicts... These compensations were of different heights. Relatively, what was in the 1990s was much lower than what such a person could have received today, e.g. in 2020. You have to keep that in mind. And that's why we think it's Art. 3 should be deleted, simply should not be so as to include all Sibiraks in this witnessing. It will not really be a relatively big difference for the state budget, but at the same time we will be able to make up for all the sibira, because they all deserve it. For this reason, I will allow myself, because this second reading, to report an amendment to your marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u118	Thank you very much, sir. In view of the successful connection with Mr Czerniak, Mr Czerniak, on behalf of the parliamentary club, will present the position of this club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Welcome. On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present my position on the draft law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. This draft was discussed in plenary. We discussed both the rules, the amount and the method of granting these cash benefits to people sent or deported. After the meeting of the committee, it is worth noting that an important change, which was proposed, is to remove the entry on the necessity of having Polish citizenship at the time of deportation or deportation to the Soviet Union. This entry meant that some of the persons to whom this benefit should be granted could be deprived of that right. It is important to remember that at that time many of the deportees may not have Polish citizenship for various reasons. We support this proposal from the committee. Of course, the amount of this benefit has been maintained. As a result of the legislative amendment - the word "full" was deleted at the word "month" - it appears that this was fixed at PLN 200 per month, which also meets our expectations. Cash benefits are to be granted at the request of the persons concerned. What is important, in comparison to the original project, the committee also proposed adding a sub-section allowing for the collection of this benefit by people residing outside our country who have Polish citizenship. We also fully support this addition. In conclusion, the Left parliamentary club is in favour of this bill. The proposed redress is, in our opinion, a good solution for those subjected to repression in the years 1939-1956, and thanks to the amendments of the committee it can be further extended to others. I think we should adopt this law as soon as possible, because the number of these people is decreasing for biological reasons. We are in favour of the solutions proposed by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that 10 Members have joined the questions. I'm determining the time to ask a question - 60 seconds. As Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski's first guest at the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! This law is an element of solidarity between the Polish state and the victims, deported to the former Soviet Union. It is also an element of redress. Today it is difficult to say that 200 PLN for each month of deportation this is a form of redress, but more this solidarity satisfaction of the Polish state is an important element in connection with what we emphasized, because this is a solution, it is a one-off benefit of the elderly. According to our parliamentary calendar, on 7 August, we will complete this bill by considering the Senate's amendments. There will be 30 days for the law to enter into force, which means about 15 September this law will start to live. I would therefore like to ask the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to carry out an information campaign (Ringtone) today, because I think that we can do so on the basis of the bill adopted, since the Prime Minister had previously distributed cartons without a legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u122	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! None of us present here certainly has doubts about the validity of the initiative taken on helping people oppressed by totalitarianism and the Soviet regime. As we read in the justification for this project, the aim of the Act is to enable the legitimate claims of Polish citizens sent and deported to the USSR in 1939 and 1956, who have so far not received compensation for the harm and suffering suffered. The problem is - and I must say - that Poles were also victims of the second totalitarian regime - the Third Reich. There were exports here too, repressions, deportations. Not to mention the bestiality of Selbstschutz, which worked very hard and intensively in Pomerania and Wielkopolska. My constituents, and I am from Pomerania, say and complain: but we were also deported, we were thrown out of our farms, we were thrown out of our workshops and shops (the bell), we were also serving the Germans. I'd like us to remember that so that we don't forget it, because not only was Stalin the oppressor, but Hitler was also the criminal. You must not divide Poles into better and worse. It should be remembered that the project should introduce a burden of harm dissonants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u124	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! So often from this speaker are the important words relating to history, to respect for heroes. It's just that words aren't enough. The people who were sent or deported to the USSR in 1939 and 1956 expect concrete and rapid action. As early as 2018, President Duda raised their hopes. Unfortunately, that's the end of it. These people were hurt because they believed that after years they would finally get the compensation they deserved. However, that did not happen. Why? In the last two years, more than 2,600 sibiracs have died and have not lived to see it. There can't be a similar situation today. It is our duty to proceed quickly over this law in the name of respect for thousands of victims. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u126	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Piotr Boris of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This project has been expected for years and months by the Union of Sibiracs, by a huge environment, which lives all over Poland, people who for decades of the Polish People's Republic could not wait for any compensation, it is not only about compensation, but also about the issue of full dignity. Therefore, financial support of an average of 13 thousand. zł is just a gesture and a symbol. This gesture and symbol of the Polish state can be passed on to all those who were deported during the years 1939 and 1956. Let us remember that many people have lost their lives and have not been able to return to Poland. But always fresh in conversations with sibiraks is the memory of that period of hard experiences in Siberia or Kazakhstan, return, often also the return of people who settled in the western part of Poland after the war. I'm also talking about Lower Silesia and my contact with sibirians. That is why (the bell) is a law that should unite us all. This gesture of solidarity should be done jointly, unanimously, for the dignity and memory of all those who have been deported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u128	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club, to ask you a question. There isn't. So the question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's hurry, because people who were repressed between 1939 and 1956 are leaving. The heroes who suffered on this inhuman earth are still waiting for this symbolic reparation. Let's not kid ourselves. This is a symbolic reparation. It does not in any way compensate for the harm and sacrifices our heroes have suffered in the East. I hope that no more obstacles, as soon as possible they will see this solution, that they will not wait again, as it happened in 2018, for several years so that we can say in such a symbolic way: We are with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u130	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I must admit that I am pleasantly surprised at the speed of the Family and Social Policy Committee, because I was afraid that it would be just like the 2018 presidential project. Indeed, it is high time that this one-off benefit, the necessary benefit, was expected to be paid to those who were deported to the Soviet Union. I very much hope that this bill will be passed during this session of the Sejm, that the Senate will take care of it very quickly and that these regulations will come into force. There are situations where you can't wait. I remember a project that we submitted concerning the exemption from charges in the homes of social assistance of Warsaw insurgents, national heroes. We waited too long back then. Today, these regulations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which I'm happy to note, they're working. Many Warsaw insurgents are surrounded by warm help from the city. Warsaw, without paying for this care or gold. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u132	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is a good thing that today we are working on a long-awaited bill, which in some way is supposed to bring at least a minimum compensation or, in principle, compensation, if you can say so. I have three questions here that should be asked at this point. First of all, the amount of 200 PLN per month of catorga. This, ladies and gentlemen, is truly a shame that we offer such a low amount to those who have survived such a torture on inhuman soil. It's no secret that the sibiracs were counting on 500 zlotys, then 400 zlotys. 200 zlotys left. Why does a government that's been giving away money so generously, especially before the election, saves money on sibiraki? I think we can afford more money. It's just... [[♪ The bell ♪]] 22,000. victims. I'm really sorry that we're finally gonna settle for that amount. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u134	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For all we know, it's okay. 22,000. Sibiraks. The Left, of course, will support this project, but the request is to simplify as much as possible, Minister, the procedures for filling out and delivering these documents, because you know these people are old. And a request and a question of whether this case will be broadcasted by television so that this information will reach all the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u136	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The consequences of the exiles in 1939 and 1956 are still felt today. One-off compensation is disproportionate to the harm suffered and is not an appropriate gratification for the victims. This is far too low, 200 PLN. The deportees were losing their homes and everything they had, they were traumatized, and they were being transported out on a massive scale. It was a huge gehenna of generations. That's my question. In this case, those who have been compensated will be harmed. I wanted to ask you if they're going to be regulated as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] who have already collected this little compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u138	Thank you very much. The list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I now ask you to answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Minister Andrzej Dera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u139	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all representatives of the parliamentary clubs very warmly at this point for supporting the bill submitted by Mr Andrzej Duda. Yes, indeed, these people should be compensated and, of course, they have a symbolic dimension. I said this at first reading: there is no way to count the suffering into gold, especially since this compensation should be paid by the Russian government today. It is not Poland that is guilty to these people, it is those who committed this crime, because that is what forced deportation must be called. This is a crime, so defined by the Nuremberg Court. And I will answer the question immediately about the German repression. Of course, they were. We were subjected to powerful repression on the one hand by the German occupier, and on the other hand by the Soviet. Except the German Government admitted it and prepared the relevant documents and money. I'll remind you that it was so-called. Reconciliation Fund. The Germans from the German Foundation paid the money to those who came forward, who were injured by the Third Reich, and those people received compensation. So that the German side, first of all, confessed to it, and second, secured the funds and paid them out to Poles who turned to the foundation. This is about explaining the German problem. The Russians didn't do it. The Russians don't recognize it, they don't want to pay and they won't pay. That's why it's a project. And I'll tell you right away... As far as questions are concerned, that's information now. The Siberian Union is a very dynamic relationship. Although there are people of age there, it is very efficient organizationally and very well connected. So I can assure the High House that we are in constant contact with the authorities of the Polish Union of Sibiracs, who have contacts with field troops, and this correspondence, the flow of information between the office of the President and the Union of Sibiracs is really, I would say very good. These people live it, there's a lot of words about it here. They expect it to be realized as soon as possible. And about the fact that the project is being discussed in Parliament today, these people already know mostly very well. I think that the vast majority of these people also use the Internet and watch this broadcast and committee meetings. There were representatives of the Siberian Union at the committee meeting yesterday. So, as far as information is concerned, there are no slightest problems and problems. On the other hand, if this project is adopted, I think that information through the media: public television or journals, news, information on the Internet, through various portals will be disseminated and this information will be universal information. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to time, there were many words about it. I wouldn't want to settle why two years, why so many people died because everyone made it so late. There's no... I'd like everyone to hit their own chest and say, "My fault," because any one of the previous governments could've done it right before." For various reasons, I don't want to inquire about it anymore today, it hasn't been realized, but it seems that today is a good atmosphere and let's not spoil its backwards accounts, but let's just enjoy it, just like it's been done many times here, that there's this project that he's going to be, I hope, quickly put into practice, and that's why these people will get this moral reparation. 'Cause I'm gonna say that they really are people who are very, very hurt by fate when it comes to the history of them and their families. Often they lost their parents, siblings, few survived. Today, this help has a symbolic dimension and serves to show that Poland respects people who had a terrible childhood not because of their own fault and only because they were Poles. And I will also refer to this amendment, which was tabled by the Confederation club. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the deletion of the article. Three won't do anything. If you looked at the bill, you'd see it there in the article. 11 we have a record that sounds so... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. I just want to explain this one more thing. In the Law of 23 February 1991 on the recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed in Article. 8. the following paragraph shall be added: The following shall be added: paragraph 6. 2a shall not apply to persons to whom the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons has granted a cash benefit under this law. It's dotted up there because we don't know what the number will be, what day this bill will be, and what the Journal of Laws will be. But it was all about not being just... Because this injustice is that some people have received compensation under this 1991 law. Unfortunately, the vast majority of these people are already dead because it has been almost 20 years since this law entered into force. But the idea was to give those who didn't get anything. And that bill was about to even it up. That was the purpose of this bill, so that those who have not yet received any compensation could have been granted. We didn't want to escalate it so those who had already gotten more, because this inequality would stay. That's why we decided that these damages... Because today it would also have to be counted that these compensations in terms of value were powerful compensations. Let me remind you that it was 15 and 18 years ago when these people were getting compensation, and today this money is about, you can say, taking into account inflation, a similar value. But it was all about getting those who hadn't received any compensation so far. These records are designed to involve those who didn't get anything. It's like this - to explain. I understand the intentions of the Member and the Club, but if we had maintained this, this inequality would still exist, all the more so because only a small proportion of those who had already received funds would have been compensated. It's just that - to explain and provide information. Once again, I sincerely thank you for accepting this project and I hope that it will be adopted by the Polish Sejm in a very short time, then - I hope that no amendments - by the Polish Senate, and that this law will enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again on behalf of the government, I thank President Andrzej Duda for this very important and necessary initiative. I think we've all talked about this. And once again, I will repeat to the people who said here that no financial means would compensate for what happened to Poles who were deported, who were deported to the Soviet Union. It is also about all those who lost their lives during World War II. Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. Minister Dera practically said everything, so thank you very much, because the Minister answered these questions very precisely. He also spoke about the amendment tabled by the Confederation, and this was not about the number of people, but about equality. This law is addressed to those people, those sibiracs who have not yet benefited from any support, except, of course, the support which is granted under the law on combatants, which everyone can benefit from. It is therefore a one-off benefit, which will on average amount to around 13 000. zł and is for those who have not yet benefited from any such benefits. There's still important information here. As regards the information issue, it is the declaration by Minister Jan Kasprzyk that, in situations where the Sibirak Union would have any difficulty reaching people who would be directly interested in this issue, there will also be an information campaign here, of course, as well as information available on the website. We know that the Sibirak Union is very strongly involved in the work on this law and on the information campaign that it has information, contact with practically all its subjects. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. I also think it is worth stressing once again - not so that I say so, to make someone angry - that we insisted that the project should not be procedated immediately, but was addressed to the committee. The amendments we have proposed are changes for the better, they have improved this project: on the one hand they have extended the number of eligible people, but they have also given us the source of funding, which is the state budget. So we can calmly say today that the project will be implemented because we will have an amount of about PLN 300 million for its implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u142	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Prison Service (prints 432 and 493). I would like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to present a review of the committee. Mr. Marshal, there is no minister, let's wait. How about a five-minute break? So, Mr. Marshal, what do you want to do? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister for Home Affairs and the Prison Service. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 19 June this year, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. The area and scope of these changes was and is quite powerful, so the first reading, which took place at the committee meeting on 14 July in the presence of Mr Mariusz Kaminski's Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, required an accurate presentation of this scope. The Commission has decided to set up a subcommittee which has worked in the context of this very first reading, presenting and analysing cases relating to the draft law submitted. It is worth mentioning that the law is very much expected by the environment's uniform services, especially those under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, because it solves matters that are important for this service, the optimal conditions of this service, the comfort of work, matters of disciplinary responsibility which are regulated here, as well as social matters which are very important and important for uniform workers. As a result of the work of the subcommittee, a report was drawn up, which was discussed at the second committee meeting on 20 July. The Commission adopted the subcommittee report and, after some changes and amendments, adopted the committee's report, which is worth mentioning, 29 votes in favour with 0 opponents and 0 abstentions, which is a testimony to this work. I will also mark here, and I think this will meet with good acceptance, the issue of cooperation to the full extent. The applications submitted were analysed and some of them were accepted. For this reason, it is only possible to thank the management of the Ministry for submitting this legal document, which is so well received and, I hope, will be the subject of the soon-to-be process in the framework of the Parliament's work, as well as, and I would like to point out, quite thorough analysis and cooperation with trade unions. And in the end: so often it happens that opening the door to good solutions causes that this door, open, repealed, some people want to treat as very repealed. Of course, certainly in the future - the Minister spoke about the fact that this law is a very expected law, especially concerning police matters - it will be possible to approach new solutions, further services. We're giving such a directional signal that this case won't be closed. But today we regulate these important matters primarily for the police, the fire department, the CBA, the Prison Service and the SOP, and that is the basis for asking the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u144	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will speak again by Mr Zdzisław Sispier.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will, of course, support this law because it is a good law, a bill expected and a law that affects what is important for many workers, for many uniformed services, what is their work. This is a very important aspect that is included in this law. As I said in my speech on the committee's work report, this is something that affects the optimal conditions for service. We have a problem that has been a problem for years, a problem that has been coming and going, a problem of vacancies in many services. The biggest problem is the police, there are the most vacancies here. This law makes this very serious problem possible to be slightly neutralized in the near future by introducing incentives, introducing solutions which, I hope, I am even convinced, will be well received by the environment. After 25 years, officers leaving uniforms are often in an optimal period of time, they acquire the law, but the law states that they can, do not need - the law gives them the opportunity to take advantage of this proposal and stay in service, and carry out this service for the Polish state. A very important aspect of this law, which we point out as the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, is to increase legal protection for officers. Often, in their duties on behalf of the state, uniformed services are involved, but when the issue of responsibility arises, there was a duality on this border. Hence the clear regulation of protection, legal assistance for all those serving, so that there is a sense that the State is behind them and that the State is helping them in situations where they need this assistance. Then a clear definition - here was the discussion within the committee - is about disciplinary action. These are very important things that affect officers. In some cases, there are situations that require such action. There is also a clear regulation in these regulations. There's also a certain length of time. The discussion on this subject was, but we believe that this solution is good and stabilising, giving time to clarify all doubts arising in the performance of the function. Finally, what may seem insignificant to many, but, ladies and gentlemen, social matters are very important - stock, food. Here there must also be a clear, clear definition of what belongs to the person who works, who participates in the actions. As we can see and hear, there is more and more. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have much influence on this. When a storm comes, people say: it took 15 seconds, and then there's work for days. Therefore, the Polish state must also legally guarantee officers who perform this function, a clear message: yes, it is due and it is not any grace, it is not a case, it is just something that occurs within the framework of the law. What, ladies and gentlemen, is very important. Here I will refer to the Ministry's management, Minister Mariusz Kaminski, Minister Wąsik. It is about the involvement of the applicants, Minister Kaminski, in the initiative of this law, but at the same time very deep consultation with the environment themselves interested, including those who represent them, that is, trade unions. It felt like it. Of course, there are some further demands, but, as I said, when opening the door there is another temptation, let's say, conclusions. Well, it's a good thing that human nature is so constructed. On the other hand, the cooperation element is very important, this dimension 29 to zero is symbolic. It turns out that you can work on a law that is good for the environment, but also good for the Polish state above all. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I would like to congratulate the ministers on a good bill that our club will support. And at the end of the day, it's pretty neat. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a matter of the legal provisions themselves. Within the budget of the coming years, 2020,2029, the police will receive an additional PLN 5.8 billion, Border Guard - 635 million, PSP - 119 million, CBA - 24 million, Prison Service - 351 million, SOP - 151 million. And voivodship budgets - it's primarily PSP, only the voivodship level [[♪ The bell ♪]] - One billion zloty. These are, ladies and gentlemen, measurable funds that guarantee the functioning of a good bill in the coming years. The Law and Justice Club, as I said, supports this bill in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Małgorzata Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the government draft law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Prison Service, print No 432. The above project, expected by the uniformed services, aims to implement incentive financial solutions encouraging experienced police officers, firefighters, border guards and officials of the State Protection and Prison Service with a long term internship to remain in service despite the possibility of retirement and thus the collection of pension benefits. The main argument in favour of the incentive allowance is a large number of vacancies in the services. Only in the police alone, 4461 officers were missing at the end of last year, while they are currently 7842 vacancies. The average internship of the officers who resign is 26 years and 6 months. The number of persons who would be entitled in the services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration to the incentive allowance after 25 years of age exceeds 12,300 persons and is respectively: in the Police - 9290 officers, in the Border Guard - 840, in the State Fire Department - 1950 and in the State Security Service - 220. With regard to services subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the solutions contained in the project concern inter alia. the possibility of granting a incentive benefit to officials with an internship of over 25 years of service, to board officers and to provide money and a cash equivalent for unused leave or additional leave, as well as to strengthen the legal protection of officers. In turn, with regard to the Prison Service, the project provides for arrangements for granting a incentive benefit to officials with an internship of over 25 years of service and for strengthening the legal protection of the officers of that formation. However, the draft law lacked solutions to support the customs-treasure service. Although the Minister of Finance Tadeusz Kościński asked the government to include it in the provisions of the bill and to ensure that financial resources are available for this, unfortunately, this service has been omitted. I will therefore make amendments and ask for positive consideration. The customs and treasury service is the oldest old uniform service, responsible for the security of trade in goods and for correct and timely payments to the state budget which are not small. You can't discriminate against customs and treasure, Minister. Officers of this service should have the same powers on the same principles as officers of other uniformed services. This bill is an expression of unequal treatment of uniformed services. The government has presented a project that motivates thousands of officers and at the same time discourages thousands of other officials. The work of uniforms is not easy, it requires a great deal of knowledge and experience gained over the years. In addition, this law does not even mention volunteer firefighters who are constantly promised, for years, an allowance for retirement. It could have been included in this bill. Minister, when will the volunteer firefighters be appreciated for their hard work in protecting human life and property? You're giving away money to the right and the left, and there's no money for the volunteers' friends and you don't even mention this formation. That's my opinion, and I'm not gonna change it. The idea of this bill is good, but this supplement will divide [[♪ The bell ♪]] Officers. Wouldn't it be better to add all the services with a 20-year internship? Nevertheless, given all the benefits of this Act - and I hope that in the committee we will further clarify these changes - the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u148	Thank you very much, Member. And now, on behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Wiesław Szczepański will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present our position to the High House regarding the government draft law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Prison Service, print Nos 432 and 493. This project is partly a consequence of an agreement between the Minister and the trade unions signed in November 2018. It regulates what this environment has been waiting for for years. The main objective of the project is to ensure optimum conditions for serving officials and to create legal instruments to motivate them to remain in service as long as possible. This is a very necessary bill, which was said by everyone at the committee meeting, especially because it involves the number of vacancies in uniform services. In the police it is almost 8 thousand, in the Border Guard - over 1700, in the State Security Service - almost 700, and in the State Fire Department - over 3300 people. The project provides for the introduction of a incentive benefit to be granted to service officers after 25 years of age and an increase in the amount of that benefit after 28.5 years. This should ensure the continuity of the service and its smooth course, because as of today several thousand officers have worked out 25 years of service and almost full service. This is a large percentage of those who would benefit from their pension, and this could unfortunately result in paralysis of these services. The Act introduces additional benefits to officers in the form of meals in kind and money in exchange for meals in kind. However, it raises doubts about specific issues related to the feeding of officers in the legal act of the statutory rank rather than in the regulation. After all, the Minister was also authorised to define by regulation a key issue, i.e. the value of the money provision in exchange for food. We welcome the fact that the Ministry has agreed to the committee's proposal and has clarified the provisions relating to the possibility of providing free food for the volunteers' mates. The draft provides for the specific powers of the principals of the various departments to provide legal protection to the officer against whom criminal proceedings are carried out in connection with the performance of his duties, even before the end of the proceedings and regardless of the outcome thereof. This regulation is intended to apply in specific cases where the protection of a legal officer is justified by the good of the service. In addition, the Act provides for extensive changes in the disciplinary proceedings of officers. They appear to be justified by the improvement of the procedure and are mostly of an organisational and technical nature. In addition, the Act provides for the introduction of new rules for the calculation of the equivalent for unused leave or additional leave. This is a change very expected by the officials and related to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 October 2018. The Court found that the statutory arrangements in force in this area were non-constitutional. They predicted that the equivalent for 1 day of unused rest leave was 1/30 part of the monthly salary. This meant that for 1 day of unused leave the officer received less than 75% Your paycheck. Since the judgment was passed, this provision has disappeared and to this day this matter has not been settled. There was therefore no legal basis for payment of the equivalent. The proposed amendment provides that the equivalent paid shall be 1/21 part of the monthly salary but applicable from 2018. The question is, what about the earlier period, what about compensation for the officers for that period. With regard to the Prison Service, as my previous speaker said, the Act regulates the arrangements for both the possibility of granting incentive benefits and the strengthening of the legal protection of officers. During the committee's work, the government also proposed amendments to the Central Anti-corruption Office Act. They relate to the amount of the equivalent for the leave of these officers and post-mortem checks for their families. In view of the fact that the law amends a number of laws, the committee decided to clarify the name of the law, adding to the name of the law the fact that there are amendments also in other laws. During the work of the Trade Union Commission, trade unions also pointed to the need to implement the last unfulfilled provision of the agreement on Article. 15a. This applies to the internship of officials in other workplaces before joining the service. We hope, Minister, that the government will also solve this problem. In the course of the work on the law, the customs union also brought its comments. They believe that similar solutions should be adopted for this group of officers. A positive opinion, as my previous speaker said, was expressed by the Minister of Finance, but there was no agreement of the Council of Ministers. It may be worth leaning on in the Senate, but as I hear, a colleague has already tabled an amendment at the Seym stage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to the explanatory memorandum of the Act, no funds are needed to finance allowances. It will be from the pension scheme of the uniformed services. I'm almost done, Marshal. In view of the deadline for examining the law, it has been extended since 1 October. My club will vote in favour of this bill, but we are making three minor editorial amendments to what I promised the fire department. We propose, Mr. Marshal, to delete point 11 in Article. Four and two minor changes. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 on the government draft law on special arrangements for support for uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Prison Service, contained in the Seym Printing No. 432. High Izbo! I was wondering how to start this speech. Let me quote from this place a very important quote which, I think, will fully show what this law is really carrying and what it is meant to serve. Ladies and gentlemen, someone once said: Only with the help of the strong can we help the weaker. After 1990, systemic changes forced, not only for formal and organisational reasons, but also for the need for new challenges and threats, a comprehensive adaptation of the legal conditions in force in the operation of uniform services. This process is constant and is constantly evolving, even at this moment when we are dealing with the SARS-CoV-2 virus threat. This process is also part of the very important role of the state as the main pillar of the protection of citizens' security. But in all the changes and processes that have taken place so far, no mechanism has been developed to stop police officers, State Fire Department, CBA, Border Guard, SOP, Prison Service, Customs and Treasury Service and others in the service. Poland is one of the few countries in Europe that does not use knowledge, competence and experience in the service of people that the system has actually developed itself during the course of their service. We're going over the bill today. It seems that this law gives the green light on how to keep experienced people active in the service and can make officers not retire after 25 years of service. This can result primarily in a detailed incentive supplement in the amount of e.g. 1500 PLN awarded after 25 years of service and in the amount of 2500 PLN after 28.5 years of service. This is also supported by the legitimacy and legal protection that this law guarantees the officers. I hope that this law, in fact, can be said: experimental, will provide optimal conditions for officers so that they remain in active service as long as possible. These actions and assumptions have been expected for a long time, and from here I can say that they are intentional and legitimate. Another mechanism that I would like to mention here is to encourage young officers to join the ranks of the service, and this mechanism lacked in this law. That is why I would very much ask that in the future - of course not now, because we all know that this law is experimental - bend over to such instruments and such an opportunity to develop mechanisms to encourage all young, potential officials to join the ranks of uniformed services. It is also about making, taking all measures that could protect us from the long-term vacancies that we now have 7842. Minister! I also wanted to thank you very much from this point of view for including my amendment on the article. 4 item 62, which I submitted in the subcommittee, which resulted, among others. The fact that the volunteers during the action and training will receive meals in nature. This is very important from the point of view of work and the work of voluntary firefighters, fellow volunteers. You know very well that they are well equipped, perfectly prepared for their work, able to interact with other uniform formations and fully deserve this action. Thank you very much from this place. Thank you all the more because voluntary firefighters are the basic one and, I think, one of the very important arms of the security system that applies throughout our country. In conclusion, I would like to say that all the changes in print number 432 are justified, but they need to be finished with the appropriate implementing acts, it is obvious. I would also ask that, in the future, it may reflect on the expected change in the wording of the article. 15a, as mentioned by my previous speakers. I also wanted to ask, on behalf of Customs and Customs, that these formations be included in this Act. Of course, on behalf of my club, I will make appropriate amendments on this issue, asking for a leaning over them and a positive examination of them. I think that the concept in this law, which concerns financial issues and provides for the possibility of increasing the budgets of individual services, will make these budgets, e.g. urban, district and voivodship police commands will be fully unfreezed (Dawn). It is known that sometimes it happens that during the financial year this money is missing and needs to be shifted from paragraph to paragraph. That is why I think that these solutions will probably help much in this regard. Once again, thank you very much for your very deep and substantive work in the subcommittee and I hope that all the solutions contained in print 432 will serve all uniform services well. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u152	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the members of the Confederation, three Members will speak in the following order: Krzysztof Tuduj, Krzysztof Bosak, Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u153	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing a draft law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and the Prison Service, print No. 432. Undoubtedly, this project responds to the need to neutralize the negative effects of staff shortages in uniform services. The lack of staff has a significant impact on the ability of these services to carry out their tasks, thus clearly affecting Poles' sense of security and the actual state security. The project concerns the introduction of a facility plan for uniformed officers, the strengthening of legal protection in the event of their participation in criminal proceedings and detention at work of officials who have already reached retirement age and have at least 25 years of experience by paying them incentive benefits. The project also provides for better, more comfortable working conditions, such as the organisation of meals and drinks, or, if this is not possible, payment of the monetary equivalent as a type of diet and financial compensation for unused leave. The legislator also plans to increase subsidies for uniformed officers listed in the draft law in the context of compensation for service time exceeding the standard. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed changes are about to offset the ability to carry out tasks despite staff shortages in the services. These changes should be considered beneficial and expected. They will certainly have a positive impact on the state's internal security, which is a key challenge. Unfortunately, despite the request made by the environment to the Customs and Customs Service to take up this service, this law did not find recognition in the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Even though the Customs and Caribian Service cited by the environment gave a positive opinion on this request by the Minister of Finance supervising this service, ministers of one government barely, barely the United Right could come to an agreement on this matter, quite unnecessarily dividing the uniformed environment. Since the project had already received applause and approval at the outset, it had to be extended to the formation concerned. I hope that these amendments will be voted on and that will be the case. Service for less and less, but still independent of the Republic of Poland is an honor and great honor. It should be properly appreciated, rewarded, its conditions should correspond to modern realities. Officers of all services should have a very high motivation. It is worth remembering that this motivation consists not only of the economic aspect, but also of the tasks that the authority gives the services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u154	Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The problem that we are discussing, i.e. staff shortages in our services, in the formations serving our country, such as the police or other state services, uniform services, is a very serious problem that is largely beginning to paralyze their normal functioning. In my election campaign, in the presidential campaign, I rode around Poland and in many places people who were normally dressed, in a civilian, who represented themselves as officers, as officers approached me. They said they were in favour, and they said they were hoping that something would finally change for the better. Unfortunately, the current government failed these hopes. What I have heard from them, and perhaps it is worth that these words also reach government representatives, is that their working environment is not primarily determined by the money or social advantages on which the PiS focuses, but by the way they are treated at work, the foreseen career path, culture or often lack of it, the lack of good organizational culture throughout the formation, the way of recruitment. Trade union representatives point out that at the moment recruitment to the largest formation, i.e. to the Police, is uniform, although the specificity of working in specific police departments is often quite different. Maybe it's time to change that, like the unionists say, and like it is. In the army. We don't do general recruitment to the entire army, we recruit to specific types of Armed Forces. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u157	God's greetings to all those officers who serve in dignity. The conspiracy, in conclusion, the advice to bow to the sky and the green and the blue, and all the uniforms. I have the impression that you also ignore the group, which already permanently co-creates the security system of the Republic of Poland: controlling security at airports. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're kept out of parentheses all the time. And to the officers, the good ones, I'll only say one sentence, Mr. Marshal. Remember that you serve the Republic of Poland's brightest, Polish nation and that you serve a monastery longer than the Prior. So, if you are now being fed by the hands of the current parliamentary majority, let this not affect your understanding of your honored mission. God bless you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u158	Thank you very much. The questions have been addressed by 14 Members. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Act in Art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 6 treats firefighters of volunteers and officers of the State Fire Service unevenly, because in art. 62 it is said that the meal is compulsory for officers, while voluntary fire workers and other persons involved in rescue operations may be issued. That's the question. The national fire protection system is one of the basic elements of state security, to which 4306 units belong, 20,000. volunteers, 10,000. Cars, may receive from an administration such as the State Fire Department, this assistance in kind in the form of a meal, possibly in financial form, when [[♪ The bell ♪]] certain statutory conditions are in place. The question is, what is it? Why are we separating officers from volunteers at the start? Some have, and others can have. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u160	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the idea of supporting uniformed services is right. Unfortunately, the bill we're working on today is not enough. There are very good solutions, but I also see many shortcomings. What about the addition to the volunteer firefighter's pension? They work so hard every day, spending their private time for us, caring so often for our health and even life, and doing so completely selflessly. They deserve this supplement in a special way. Earnings in uniform services do not encourage young people to enter the service. How does the government want to encourage young people to work in uniform services? Why doesn't the bill cover all uniformed services comprehensively? What incentive measures are prepared by the government for officers who have acquired pension rights and have worked over. 20 years to stay on duty? Why Witnessing [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not the incentive constitute an element of remuneration affecting the basis of the pension? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u162	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u163	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, which is proceded at an express rate, you do not hide that this law is the answer to the crisis in uniform services, add: the crisis that you have caused over the last five years. The explanatory memorandum states that the basic objective of the bill is to ensure optimum conditions for serving officers and to create legal instruments to motivate them to stay in it for as long as possible. But in addition to carrots, you also offer a proverbial stick. Relationships representing uniforms alarm and pay attention, among others. for an extended period of suspension in service from 3 to 12 months and for the application of the principle of presumption of guilt in the rules instead of the principle of presumption of innocence adopted in all States, and for an extension of the period to be imposed on a disciplinary officer from 1 to 2 years. On behalf of the uniformed community, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with which I am in constant contact, I ask you to answer the question about the reasons and reasons behind the proposals you have indicated. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u164	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 7842. Do you know what that number is? That's the number of vacancies in the police, the largest in years. It's a good thing you're putting in an extra for uniforms. We will support this bill. But did you ever think about why uniforms avalanchely leave the service? I'll tell you. Because for the last five years, you have led to such a politicalisation of uniformed services that those who can only free themselves from pressure are leaving the service, ladies and gentlemen, because they do not want to be political officers. For the same reason, there are no new volunteers. If this goes on, our children will have no one to protect them. Because this is a service for citizens, not for politicians, and you're forgetting it. Young people would like to join the service for purposes such as protecting their citizens, ladies and gentlemen. But not to cut confetti. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or Watch the fence on Żoliborz. Because this is a service for citizens, not for politicians, and you're forgetting it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u166	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The print project 432 is a project that will certainly strengthen the professional activity of some uniformed services. By the way, it is also worth recalling that it covers only part of uniformed services. Forgotten e.g. About the Railroad Guard or the customs officers. But I think it's also a good time to remember and remind you that voluntary firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids, have been waiting for a long time for the proper gratification of them, although social, but still service. There are other social groups - pensioners are waiting for a minimum pension of 1,600 PLN, which was proposed by the Left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u168	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Wiesław Szczepański, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions, but the one I'm gonna start with is the article. 15a, Minister. It is one of the elements of the November 2018 agreement which was concluded with the trade unions of uniformed services. Can we count on you to draft a bill this year that will solve this problem? How are you gonna stop the young police? Because when I meet young people in different district commands, it turns out that after a few years, when they are trained, they run away, I say it in quotes, which means they go to another job. However, how does the government intend to stop those people who have been learning for several years, need to be financed and then left the service? However, is it possible to compensate in some way for this period between 2001 and 2018 for the uneven payment of the equivalent for unused leave? In 2020 and 2021 will there be calls to the police (the bell) and the employment of how many new police officers are you expecting in these years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u170	Thank you. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of this bill is good, but I believe that the bill will divide the officers so long awaited and needed. This bill is not fully specified. Minister, once again, customs and treasure services have been omitted. Of course, no mention is made of volunteer firefighters. I mean, the supplement to retirement for hard-working years. I have this question: Will this incentive allowance be provided for all officers or just the chosen ones? Minister, why are you sharing officers? I wanted to ask you why we can't include all the officers in the service with an internship of 20 years. It's not gonna cost that much, it's not gonna cost that much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] large financial resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u172	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Undoubtedly - we are all talking about this - the bill is needed, regulates a very important section or very important area: uniformed officers who need better conditions to work longer. But I would ask for a concrete answer: Why weren't customs and treasure services included in this project? After all, we know that the financial consequences are assured, the Ministry of Finance will easily cover these costs. I am asking not only because it is necessary to preserve the minimum of justice, but also because at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, customs unions have repeatedly informed about how large losses are in the budget for this, when there is a shortage [[♪ The bell ♪]] experienced customs officers who know their jobs. Tell me why. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u174	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The incentive allowances concern a very small group of uniforms with pension rights today. But this is related to the human crisis that affects uniformed services, which is unfortunately a real threat, because today, in the police alone, the level of vacancies has reached more than 7,000. uniform jobs. I therefore welcome the solutions proposed by the Minister, and I would like to pay tribute to the pace of work given by the chairman of the committee by Mr Wiesław Szczepański. I would also like to thank you very warmly for the adopted parliamentary amendment on Article. 4, thanks to which fellow volunteers during training and rescue activities [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will be treated equally with officers. My club has made an amendment on customs officers. I would also like to ask future members of TSOs to have the opportunity and opportunity to benefit from pension allowances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u176	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In addition to strengthening the legal protection of officials against criminal proceedings, the project deals with ensuring optimal conditions for the service of officers by creating legal instruments that motivate them to remain in it for as long as possible, including. by granting a incentive benefit to officials with an internship of over 25 years, boarding in kind and providing cash for meals in kind, as well as a cash equivalent for unused leave or additional leave. Minister! In this case, does it not seem to you that forcing officers to take an equivalent leave of absence and not to take a leave of absence is against Polish law, a legal code? Because holiday leave cannot be paid equivalent, only if the employee leaves work. Doesn't it seem to you that, in this position, the Minister should finally show the hardest things a man should have and say, "To be the first." [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna get 2.5 grand, not 1.5 grand, and for the second degree, 3.5 grand. A thousand, but do you have to take a leave of absence? And not optional, but mandatory, because we want to have rested officers on the streets who will make rational decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u178	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u179	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Does the Government of the United Right feel that everything can be handled with money? I think that's what you think. In the last five years, the situation has been brought to this day. Experienced officers were transferred to the resting state. The promotional path was incomprehensible to many. The relationship was ruined, people were set against each other, and today you say that money needs to be strengthened, that's better. It won't be better if you don't improve your relationship. This is best seen among police officers, but also in all uniformed services it is visible. We need to rebuild our relationship. A man should mean more, and it can't just be your vision that everyone should be subject to. If he doesn't identify with you, there's no room for him in the service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Experience doesn't count, and all that matters is your politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u180	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u181	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As we said at the committee meeting, it is an experimental law and perhaps after its application it will be time to extend these solutions to other actors. I have two questions. One, because this support applies especially to police officers after 25 years of service. How many officers who have an education who have many years of experience can remain in this service? Do we have any such estimates? And the other thing. There's one very important record in this bill that wasn't mentioned here. The certificates of admission of fire-fighting vehicles are so far very high amounts, in the order of tens of thousands of PLN, and the local authorities paid for it. How much now (the bell), after the adoption of this law, will it cost an opinion to allow fire-fighting vehicles?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u182	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the article. 7a (1) on arrangements for the entry into service of fire-fighting vehicles imported from abroad. Used vehicles imported from abroad will not be subject to an approval certificate but only to a technical opinion as a less formalized procedure to confirm the vehicle's compliance with the requirements for vehicles used for special purposes, specifically for fire protection purposes. I have a question, Minister: When will the proper implementation mechanisms be developed? What does these changes mean in practice? What's the cost of a technical opinion? And what about special vehicles used in Poland, not imported from abroad, which do not have a certificate of approval of CNBOP-PIB? Please answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u184	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, information about this number of vacancies in the police may be surprising, because we all thought it was an attractive, well-paid job. My question is, do we sometimes make a mistake somewhere when it comes to marketing? In short, do you, however, have any information on the part of the Minister and the uniforms, inviting them to apply for vacancies? Second thing. We've been talking about customs here, but that's a question for the Minister, but also for your marshal. Why don't we take care of the Marshal's Guard, which is also a uniformed service, and not covered by these records? And one last thing. As far as voluntary firefighters are concerned, my question to the government is: Would the government agree that these meals should be mandatory, including as regards voluntary firefighters? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because right now there's a record that says that volunteer firefighters can have meals, but it's not mandatory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u186	Thank you very much. I ask Alexander Mishalski to ask a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You're introducing a motivational supplement for MMA officers. It is aimed at solving huge staff problems, but these staff problems are not only due to financial issues, but also, and perhaps above all, to the management of services. For example, the situation at the Higher School of Crime and Penitentiary in Warsaw, whose rector Colonel Shooter was accused of molestation, mobbing, abuse of powers and failure to fulfil his duties. The reprimand given to him by the Department of Internal Affairs of the Prison Service was cancelled by Minister Jakiego, he was promoted and the accusers were demoted. The minister who also cleared him of all charges he confessed to. Why do you do politics in the service instead of betting on professionalism? How can young people get close to the service if there is no clear system of promotions and career making? The proposal also introduces the possibility of a long-term suspension of an officer in the event of a case against him (the bell) in an involuntary offence case where this is intentional for the sake of the good of the procedure or the good of the service. This is a very vague concept, threatening to be abused by superiors. I encourage you to consider modifying this project so that it is more precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u188	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as I'm concerned, there's an uneven equivalent of uniformed services. This applies to the compensation for the apartments. The highest, to my knowledge, has the SOP, and the lowest, the Border Guard. Will the government do anything about this, or are there any legal measures envisaged to make it even? Such situations cannot take place because uniformed services should not be shared under any circumstances and should serve one purpose as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that the list of Members of the Committee of Questions has been exhausted. Is Mr Zdzisław Sipiera in the Chamber? If not, I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik. I'm coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u191	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you all very much for the work you have put into the creation of this law, because I feel that although this is a government project, the committee has been very active in shaping the project. I think we talked, discussed this project very well. I would like to thank Mr Szczepański for the very smooth running of the committee. I would like to thank the president of the subcommittee, Mr Zdzisław Sipera, for being able to do this so efficiently. I would like to thank all the Members involved in this work. I am pleased that we are able to reach consensus on certain security issues, because this is how I read your statements heard today during the Parliamentary debate. I will try to dispel your doubts, because, of course, doubts are and will always arise. It would be weird if we were always unanimous everywhere. The first thing that comes out of your mouth is the Customs Service. I would like to ask Members of the Civic Coalition why they are so concerned about the Customs Service, not for example. o Central Office for Corruption, because CBA officers are also not covered by incentive allowances. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's also... But they don't want to. If you would allow me to finish... It has been said that this law is a certain experiment, something new in our system, also in the service system. It's true. We at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wanted to test a system that would make us safer by keeping experienced officers in the service longer. Let us agree on this - perhaps Mr Wieczorek said - that the police service is attractive. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no harder work than police work. There's no harder job than a border guard's job. There's no harder job than a fireman who works on a fire. There's no harder work. I remind you: these are officers who still have their time in service, who are serving with life and health risks. We want it to be safe. This bill is about our safety, ladies and gentlemen. The assumption is that a policeman with 20 years of service goes to an officer's school in Szczytno, because there are many such cases. After 23 years of service, he becomes an officer and is well prepared to serve. After 25 years of service, he retires. That's the problem we're dealing with. What can you do? You can extend your retirement age. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But you could say, "Don't retire," and we'll give you an allowance. That's what we're doing. We want to test this system because this system has to fund itself in the services concerned by this law. I am convinced that if this system works, i.e. it will actually self-finance itself - this is what all the calculations we have - we will expand this system, including the Customs Service, including the Secret Service, including the military services, because this law does not cover it. I'd like to reassure customs. The government is looking, thinking, and we will really quickly validate this bill, check how it works, how it has financial implications. If they are precisely what calculations are, there is no least obstacle to introducing these systems in other services. And the police really have the biggest problem, because right now we have over 7,000. Vacations. This, of course, is due to a situation in the Police that, I am speaking to the Members of the Civil Coalition and the PSL, has been going on for a long time. In 2012 there were 6 thousand. job vacancies. It was $4,000 a year ago. job vacancies. But the COVID caused some calls to be paralyzed, time shifted. I hope that this bill will make fewer people retire and that these experienced policemen and other servants will remain on duty. And we've got a lot of work to do. On July 13th, we went to the police... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I have another one, Marshal? On July 13, we managed to qualify 611 people for police work. The next rounds will be in September, November and December and will cover a total of 2.5 thousand. persons. It'll be strong police support. But let us also remember that a good cop does not become a good cop when you come to work for the second, third or fifth day after the party, it does not become a cop even after the first year. A great deal of experience is required, an increase in knowledge. The most valuable officers are those who have 25 years of service and can, because health allows them to do so, to serve on. And we're going to pursue this as we've been working for the last five years: the modernization bill, the salary increases for the officers... Indeed, we want police and other uniformed services to be as attractive as possible financially. Our safety depends on it. We're aware of that. We also know that there are issues that have not been resolved over the years, Mr President. And I don't want to point fingers here, which the government, very, very long ago, created a problem about art. 15a. But I actually spoke with President Jankowski today from the police union. In the near future, we will make a proposal to the union because we have committed ourselves to solving the problem of the article. 15a, i.e. those who came to the police, and have already had an internship, which does not include pension service. We have an idea for this, and I hope that we will introduce solutions that will benefit both the police and us, because it will be visible on the street where it will just be safe. I'm gonna take a quick look at the notes to discuss most of the topics that you're discussing or all of these topics. Retirement allowance for volunteers. That's a great initiative. I know. President Andrzej Duda made that call in the campaign. For all I know, it was... It's not the first time. I remember the Member who promised it, promised it, promised it, and never introduced it. But let's not bid. We answer questions and do not provoke the Minister here. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Hit the table and the scissors will speak in the form of a Marshal of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal unwittingly answered the question of power. But I don't want to argue with you here, Marshal. I'll try to answer the questions in detail. We will, of course, want to increase the employment of the police, fill in the posts so that these 400 post-2012 posts can finally be rebuilt. This is very important and Poles are waiting for these stations. This is an extremely important element of our policy. We can't do that because we're often just short of cops. We're going to do this consistently to rebuild the precincts, because the police are going to be close to the citizens. It's not just about big cities, it's not just about medium-sized cities, it's about small towns, because people living in them have the right to feel safe, to have a police station, to have someone to turn to in need. We will implement this program. I would also like to say that, of course, there is still a lot to be done, there is always a lot to be done, and that I agree with the President. There'll be a new modernisation bill, I'm sure of it. This year, Mr President, we will have a lot of work to do, High Sejm, because we want to modernise uniformed services and introduce a new modernization bill to invest them so that they have good equipment and do their best. To answer Mr Piechowiak's question, I would say that at the moment there are about 9200 officers in police service, almost 9300 officers, who should benefit from the incentive allowance from 1 October, it is a matter of not retiring. If it were 9,000. people suddenly retired, the Polish security system would have a big problem. When it comes to feeding firefighters and the doubts you have, I will tell you this: Please be sure that no firefighter from the action where the PSP firefighter gets a plate of soup will come out hungry. Believe me. And that's the way it is right now. That's the way it is right now. I thank you for submitting this amendment, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not regulated by law. We're glad we made that record. But it's in practice. These people, who work for our safety, often act incredibly jointly and severally, always act incredibly jointly. It's not like the PSP firefighters who put out the fire in Biebrza got the so-called. The bowl, and the CSR firefighters didn't get it. No, these people share and we make sure they do. Thank you very much, Madam President, for this wise amendment, for trying to ensure that this is also defined in the area of rights for CSR firefighters. We will also work on pension allowances for TSOs. Let's not worry about it. There's gonna be time for that. The CSR system is unique, brilliant, there is no such second in Europe. That is why there is this very important provision to which you have led the authors of this law by writing interpellations, asking why the certification of a fire truck bought abroad costs 50 and 80 thousand. zł. We couldn't understand it either. We agreed to change the rules so that for a few thousand zlotys - a few, I say: a few, I think it will be 3, 4, 5 thousand. zł - obtain a positive technical opinion, unless this technical opinion cannot be obtained. The point is that firefighters who find used cars abroad buy them with the help of their local authorities can bring them into action for really decent money, not the same as before. Unfortunately, so far, there has been a massive extortion by some public and public entities. We regulate this act so that there is no doubt and to ensure the supply of this equipment for volunteer firefighters. I'm still reviewing the list of issues that you discussed in the course of the discussion. Late leave, the equivalent of late leave. In November 2018, the Constitutional Tribunal drew attention to one thing. Why is it that when one of us finishes our work and has a leave of absence, he gets a 1/21 salary for each day of leave, and in the services of the MMA, mainly in the police - because it does not apply in all services, in the PSP it is not - it is 1/30 salary? We had to do it, but in my opinion, there's no legal basis for this tribunal ruling to extend. for the period up to 2001 I'm not talking about actual possibilities anymore. Indeed, the Labour Code says that leave should be used, but the Labour Code does not bind in uniform services, and that is also something to be said. He's a civilian employee who's in uniform, but not a police officer. For example, the dimension of unused leave shows how hard it is to work in these services, how hard it is to work... Service, no: work, service. I will admit that I am pleased to be able to discuss this with you here today, with the conviction that these are solutions good for the Polish Police, good for the Fire Department, good for the border guards. And I ask that we adopt this bill on Friday, I hope, unanimously. May I remind you that on Friday, July 24th, it's a police holiday. Cops appreciate this holiday very much, they care about it, it's important to them. I hope the High Sejm will accept this bill on Friday. Minister, what about the equivalent for the apartment? Mr President, the chance to take part in the discussion was at a committee meeting, and now we are not asking additional questions to the Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Indeed, these solutions... ...which has already exceeded the time by nearly 10 minutes. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll answer the last question. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Indeed, these solutions are very different in different services. I think it would have to be changed dramatically, but it would also have to be discussed with the trade unions. Some of these privileges are anachronistic privileges. Whether you have an apartment or not, you have an equivalent calculated in a difficult way. A service like the CBA has other solutions. He has the possibility of granting a housing allowance that allows him to rent a small apartment to an officer who serves in a city where he doesn't have an apartment. That's it, period. Simple, clear solution and not very expensive. I think it's time to take care of both, but you can't take care of everything at the same time. Let me remind you that we will be working on the article. 15a, let me remind you that we will be dealing with the new Modernization Act and remind you that we have other good ideas regarding the services that we will be submitting to the High Sejm. Thank you so much for those declarations that have already been made. I hope that the Police Day will be able to adopt a law on the support of uniformed services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws (Prints Nos 437, 437-A and 502). I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. These are prints 437 and 437-A, which is autocorrection. The Sejm at its 14th meeting of 16 July 2020 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this draft, along with the self-correction, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. The committee held its meeting on 21 July 2020. We had a substantive discussion, there were questions, answers, substantive questions, substantive answers. Therefore, the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets has examined the draft and proposes that the High Sejm adopt the draft. Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets pursuant to Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall also submit the following minority request at the request of the applicant: in Article. 5 in point 5 in point (a) c in the mouth. 9c at the end of point 13 replace the dot with a semicolon and add the following point 14: the financing of the purchase of new bicycles, scooters, scooters and bicycles, scooters and scooters using electricity generated from hydrogen in the fuel cells installed therein or using only electricity for propulsion. The amendment was tabled by Mrs Urszula Zielińska, which is why the committee presents this as a minority proposal in today's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u194	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask that Mr Wiesław Krajewski speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws contained in the Seym printing No 437, together with the self-correction, print No 437-A. I would like to remind you that the submitted parliamentary proposal, together with the self-correction, is intended to transform the State special fund of the Low-carbon Transport Fund into a multi-annual commitment of the Low-emission Transport Fund under the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management by repealing the provisions on this special-purpose fund. At yesterday's meeting of the committee, the applicants submitted three self-corrections concerning minor corrections in the Environmental Law, the Tax Tax Act and the Power Market Act, for which they proposed to postpone the start of the power charge of 1 October this year. as at 1 January 2021 This parliamentary bill amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws will certainly contribute to the effective implementation of programmes supporting the development of a modern and innovative sector of the electromobility-based economy. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes and will vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Urszula Zielińska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club - PO, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens concerning the report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The project we are investigating today is a confirmation that the government's flagship electromobility program has so far failed. Let us remind you that in 2016 - then the Deputy Prime Minister - Mateusz Morawiecki announced the creation of a plan for clean transport. In the framework of it was created the so-called. Low-carbon Transport Fund. The project's authors predicted that by 2020 in 32 selected agglomerations on the roads there would be 50,000. electric vehicles, there will be 6.5 thousand. chargers for these vehicles, the program will generate an additional 20 billion PLN of revenue per year for the energy sector, and by 2025 there will be 1 million electric vehicles on Polish roads, including vehicles of Polish design and Polish production. The idea is very right, very necessary. Let's check her execution. It's 2020. How much do you think of the planned 50,000? Electric cars drive on Polish roads today? 6.5 thousands. In this respect, we are in third place in Europe, unfortunately from the end. Question for Members and Members of the Law and Justice: How many charging stations were created from planned 6.5 thousand? 1,200, or five stations per 100,000. residents of cities. By comparison, in countries such as the Netherlands, there are over 100 chargers per 100,000. residents. Last question: Do you know what the plan to reduce emissions from transport under this scheme looks like? It doesn't look like it. Instead of reducing transport emissions by 36% only in the last 3 years and by 80% since 2005. It is clear today that Poland will not achieve the objective of reducing transport emissions to 2020. Nor is there an additional 20 billion for the energy sector from the additional energy supply. And today, this novel government party admits that the program has failed and needs a change. In the amendment that we are looking at here, the Low Emission Transport Fund is being abolished and transferred to the national environmental fund in the form of a multi-annual special-purpose fund to simplify the payment process. In addition, the autofix allows you to move the fund from the electromobility program to the Clean Air program. Special subsidies from the State Treasury are postponed and reduced. While the very idea of simplifying the support system is right, it is worrying about its implementation, because it is again done without a reliable analysis of what did not work in the previous version of the programme, without public consultation, without a reliable settlement of expenditure from previous years, without consulting experts. How can you be sure that shifting the budget from one place to another will be a cure for immobility in Polish electromobility? Is it not an attempt to withdraw cancer, I hope not, from this very important programme, to take its priority, perhaps to break it down, to blur it, to shift funds between many different multi-annual programmes from NFOŚ, which may have been announced, I hope not, the amendment of the state at the committee meeting yesterday? I very much regret that, at yesterday's meeting, the committee rejected amendments increasing the funding and extension of this programme to other low- and zero-emission vehicles, e.g. for bicycles, electric bicycles, scooters, electric scooters. The members of the PIS said that these amendments were science fiction. And I'm telling you, it's not science fiction, it's support. for seniors who can't afford a car or an electric car, but they could be more mobile thanks to electric rechargeable bikes. It's not science fiction, it's the 21st century reality that's been knocking on your door for 20 years. In Poland, time flows, we poison our children, on the streets smells and hums, emissions from transport are growing two figures. And yet the reduction of emissions is crucial for our future, for our safety and electromobility is crucial for reducing the huge emissions from transport that we generate. Therefore, despite the fiasco of the first installment of the programme, we will support another attempt to launch it. Polish electromobility has to make up for years of motionlessness. Let's not waste another 4 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u198	Thank you very much. I am now asking Mr Andrzej Grzyb, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. And Mr Dyduch? Mr Grzyb, allow me to invite Mr Andrzej Grzyb to present his position. Please. I'm just reading, Marshal, one at a time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have seen here a gesture of encouragement from Mr Dyduch, so that I certainly do not evict him from this queue to speak. That's how we agreed with Mr Dyduch... Exactly. ...so I ask my colleagues from the Left to remain calm. It's okay. Mr. Marshal, I didn't know, but you appreciate it unless I stand up for Mr. Dyduch. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a second reading of the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws, which is a novel prepared by a group of Members, is being processed. And what is most important, what is, as it were, at the root of this amendment, is the argument that the co-financing process should be re-bureaucratized, because the established Low-Emission Transport Fund is, it turns out, not very efficient, so to speak, in the use of what is collected in this fund. Secondly, it is also intended to facilitate the use of the money collected in this fund or, in the future, in the account maintained by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. At first reading, I raised such a case. The point is that we should tell ourselves what the effects of the Low Carbon Transport Fund so far are, whether it is justified to shift these statutory competences to the national environmental fund, which is the contractor of the existing law - the bill operated by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Maybe there are other causes that inhibit development in this area? I thought that during the committee work we would hear some reflection on this. But I didn't hear it, there was no such conversation. I'm not a member of this committee, so all I could do was passively listen to it. In my opinion, it would be such a starting point, it could say a lot about it. Will the transfer to the National Environmental Fund make those objectives that we want to achieve in terms of low-carbon transport, which will be set by the Fund's Board, really easier to achieve than under the statutory prerogatives set by the High House? Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a few self-corrections have been made here. These self-corrections go far beyond the scope of the law, the scope of the novel submitted to the High House and should actually be the subject of our view at first reading and not during the work of the committee. However, they have been accepted, both in the Article. 4 as well as the article. 5, although I would like to be honest with you that, as this enlargement has already taken place, it seems to me that the amendment tabled by one of my fellow Members was justified here in order to consider whether to expand, for example. the revenue of this fund, for example, from the write-downs from gas transmissions. We've got energy copies here. I know that the Minister argued that certain obligations were imposed here on the gas sector and that he has among others. develop infrastructure, contribute to the development of this alternative fuel infrastructure. But it seems to me that this is quite reasonable and that this case should be brought back to life in the future. In turn, with regard to the article. 5 and its subsequent versions, Article. 5a and 5b, the provision of funds to voivodship environmental funds, so that they are the owners and can have them, transfer to other individual administrators, including local authorities, is justified. Just as there is a legitimate issue regarding the determination of income rules for a family member, because this criterion is the basis for funding. But again, the question whether such a far - reaching change should not be considered at first reading. This leads to such a conclusion that this parliamentary project, which, as I say, has its source undoubtedly also in the desire to speed up the procedure, and this is not at all wrong, so in government benches, it should be better thought out. Perhaps if we worked on this longer, there would be no such reservations. The last point is the issue of a delay in the entry into force of the so-called fee. the capacity charge, i.e. the capacity charge, and the rules for calculating this charge (the bell) by one quarter. All these elements made by self-correction are valid, but from the point of view of legislative technology, what we should do and require as the High Chamber, they should appear at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Mark Dyduch, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At second reading, we maintain our position as a Left. We will be in favour of the change that you have proposed, ladies and gentlemen, because the Low carbon Transport Fund is not working today. We've been trying to explain that this sphere hasn't really worked for 14 years since the first bill was passed, the August omen, which means it's about to be an anniversary, it's going to be 14 years. And no government, the previous PiS, then eight years of the Civic Platform and again the PiS... Not much has been done in this case. In 2016, the programme was adopted, in 2018 the Low Emission Transport Fund was adopted, and today we are practically eliminating it and transferring it to the National Environmental Fund. This is why the Left agrees not to hold back so as not to create a public dispute, who is right: to liquidate, move, try to use this fund in a different form. We want those money that can be used for the production of liquid biofuels or biocomponents to finally exist. Poles and Polish institutions are waiting for this. We hope that when it supports these changes, this fund will finally be launched. Let it be in the form that will be at the disposal of the national environmental fund. I only have one question I raised in my previous speech. Well, this fund uses about 50% All your resources. At the committee meeting, we heard that because we're starting a new path. Let me remind you that the new way in which this fund is put into place and the new way in which, among other things, it is done. the distribution of European funds, which this fund also has, recently negotiated it by the Prime Minister, if I'm not mistaken, this week. So the new fund will come, and we have some billions left untapped for that purpose. We have not used many billions for other purposes in terms of environmental protection at all. We have that one doubt. That's why we're articulating her out loud here so you can mobilize. The funds that lie in the fund's account are dead, not used in the area of environmental protection or even biocomponents and liquid fuels do not work. They're not working, which means we're not making progress. We have no progress, we are lagging behind in many areas, technologically, and those where we could come up with something interesting, and instead of buying these technologies, for example. for liquid biofuels, we could sell them, because Polish scientists, if we give them money, they'll work on it. That is why the request is one thing, it is our call, that we support these changes, that these measures should start this year, because it will start working from 30 October, really dynamically to have, of course, concrete projects. We do not want to spend for publishing, but we would like this process to start, even in business, I would say, Mr Morawiecki, because perhaps these electric cars would finally appear in Poland. That is why we support these changes and we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u202	Thank you very much. The position of the Confederacy Circle will be presented by two Members: Grzegorz Braun and Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u203	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo, the bill at this hour! It's no surprise, because we've already taunted this project enough at first reading. There was a lot of laughs, but it's really scary. It's a crime, isn't it? It would be worth seeing those who invented it, made such a mechanism, but for a lot of money, and after 2 years it turns out that not electric cars, but possibly scooters, as we will try very hard. Here in the Seym, we could use them because there are long corridors. We think of it dared by this novel to submit to your marshals such a proposal that the scooters of the service should be in the Sejm. But not the car, but the money burned out, some uncharted money. Criminal. Let's see who gave us all this stuff. I still remember the times of the propaganda of success, the Gameplay - that is - and associations are irresistible. Here, from this speaker, today the Prime Minister gave us another session of memories. Who remembers Gomułkowski's years, the games, has these associations, and reality no longer squawks, but reality simply demands some kind of action - the prosecutor's office, tribunals. It's worth thinking about before you propose another state pier like that to burn the money out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u204	Yeah, it's a fiasco, but let's not bully the government anymore. Let's be content that he admitted his mistake, that he's trying to fix it at least a little bit. I fear, however, that insufficient steps are being taken at the moment. What this should teach us is something about the destructive pride of reason, about how few officials know what they're trying to plan. I told you about it when I first read it. It always seems to officials that they can decree the future, set paths in the development of humanity. These are the same officials who then can't complete the masks on time or start registering the car over the Internet for example. No, we do not believe that thanks to one or another fund run by inexperienced officials in the country without technological facilities, we will make a significant contribution to the development of the electric car industry. If this industry is going to grow, it's enough not to disturb it, it's going to grow itself. If one of the Members or Ministers thinks that he knows how to develop this industry, then I urge him to invest his own money, not taxpayers' money, because taxpayers' money is easy to invest. I am curious how many Members, how many Mrs Zielińska, who has spoken so passionately, has already invested, for example. In Tesla's stock or in the electromobility of your own money. Because the taxpayer's money is disrespectful, and it's thrown out on different projects, and then there's no one to hang for it. If electric cars were really better and more economical, people would just be willing to buy them and they would not need to be encouraged officially, and they need to be encouraged. Unfortunately, this is a piece of shit that can turn out to be a blind technological one, unless it solves the fundamental problems that so far create, such as incendiary batteries, short distances, long charging, problems with the disposal of these batteries, questionable energy balance of the entire project, if you take into account all the costs of building these vehicles and the infrastructure needed for this. Their artificial preference for encouragement, the co-financing of the purchase of these cars at the expense of other taxpayers, makes the government probably contribute to the misallocation of resources, to the packaging of us into the technology from which we will then have to withdraw, especially since in this way some taxpayers throw themselves into the cars of others, and most often the poorer ones contribute to the richer ones, because the poor will not buy expensive new electric cars, but they will drive old diesels, the longer they will have to throw themselves into new electricians for bourgeoisies. The state should remain technologically neutral, it should only tax emissions and pollution fairly regardless of how they are generated. Then the profit and loss balance will show us which technology really is greener and better. The one that will be the cheapest, the one that will cause the least cost, would require the least fees for the Treasury. It can't be that for CO2 emissions Therefore, first of all, do not harm. Anything that's gonna work out, it's gonna work. Just don't steal, just don't disturb. The Confederation will not (the bell) vote against this law. Some of us will hold off, some of us will even back it up. However, this is a small step towards which we should essentially turn away, not interfere in these matters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir. Twelve Members joined the questions. Would anyone else like to join the list? If not, I close it by specifying the time to ask the question - 60 seconds. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u206	Minister! High Seym! I would like to ask the Minister in the context of the Act on Electromobility, which in the article. 34 obliges public administrations, central administrations, also general public authorities to purchase electric cars, so that in their fleet in subsequent years they represent between 30% and 50% used cars. This law also imposes similar obligations, on a different scale, on local government units. It also excludes certain public administrations from applying these solutions. In view of the above, I would like to ask, as for today, for example. The ministries are committed to this. I noticed in the draft budget of the Ministry of Sport that this year it is planned to purchase a service car (the bell) driven electrically. And what does it look like on a national scale when it comes to resorts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u207	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u208	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The fact that this fund didn't work out, we've heard about it several times. I have this question for the Minister: What were the costs so far borne by the administration, which was created to make the fund work? And another question. The fund had some value, and I'd like to know what this value is today. And tell me, according to your projections, what will be the amount of this fund, e.g. in 2021? For the following years it was provided in the Act with funding from a special grant from the State budget. For 2021 it was over PLN 178 million. Today in this law in the article. Fifteen countries are erasing it, zeroing that amount of targeted subsidy. I would like to know how high the funds (the bell) are foreseen by the Minister in 2021, since the state budget does not secure any funding for this type of support. And one last question. You have said many times, and at the committee meeting, and from this parliamentary stand, that this fund will begin... that these funds will be spent more efficiently and quickly. One of the tasks, the recipients of the funding from these funds, is communication, public collective transport. Please tell me how this law will improve the spending of these funds or the reaching for these funds by local authorities in the context of the financing of collective transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u209	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Thomas Piotr Nowak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the fragmentation of the action is shocking. Minister, this is a comprehensive act on renewable energy sources, not a kind of revision of the Low Carbon Fund Act. Glory to God, it's an improvement amendment and, on top of that, a granting, correcting the mistake you've made. We said you were going astray, you said you weren't going astray, and it turns out you've gone astray. So, in the broader perspective, we can see that we are sometimes worth listening to. Minister! On the one hand, we want to subsidize, help through targeted subsidies from the national fund, from emission charges, but on the other hand we also need a strategy to attract investment to our country. It's about investing in electromobility. And now: Is there a thought in your strategy to connect [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pro-investment actions just with something that happened recently, i.e. a reduction in the Fair Transformation Fund? If the resources under the Fair Transformation Fund have been reduced, then the regions that lose their resources should be dedicated to electromobility programmes. The Polish government should help these regions to attract strategic electromobile investments. Is that what you're doing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u211	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Dariusz Evening to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Electromobility is indeed a very serious topic, but it cannot be dealt with only by laws, because these laws must still be able to be implemented. Electromobility is a matter of public administration, it is a matter of local governments, it is finally a question of energy companies and transmission network operators and distribution networks. There are many very problematic issues here. My questions are: What is the level of this fund, which is how much money is in the accounts of this fund today? What are the reasons why these funds have not been used so far? Because local governments asked for subsidies for electric cars, they asked for subsidies for electric buses, but they didn't get them. Second thing. Please inform me at what stage is the design of the prototype of the Polish electric car, because after all, a special company was created, [[♪ The bell ♪]] She was supposed to take care of it. So my question is this: At what stage is this, how much money has already been spent and is there a real chance that this project will be implemented? Because maybe you have to let it go if we just can't handle it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u213	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Margaret Navel in the Chamber. So I would ask you to ask Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our position, the doubts expressed very well in Mrs Zielińska's speech. In general, the needs for electromobility are enormous and we should treat this comprehensively, not with inflatables, novels, etc. Let's take care of this properly. But using the fact that you're a minister, I'd like to ask you one more question. We have eight biogas plants per inhabitant in Poland. For example, in the Czech Republic there are 54 biogas plants in the same ratio. The National Chamber of Biofuels, the Union of Biogas Producers and Employers and the Institute of Petroleum and Gas - PIB have jointly prepared the White Paper on Biomethane. This is an interesting analysis of needs, market failures, along with specific conclusions. I have the first question: Have you been familiar with the applicant country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] With that document? Please refer to his records. I would also like to ask you how you refer to the request to allow the co-financing of the construction of biogas and biogas plants from public funds, as well as how you evaluate the proposal for a mechanism to enable the installations producing biomethane and introducing it into the gas network to participate in the FIT and FIP systems. And I ask for a separate answer to these questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u215	Thank you very much. I also do not see Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz in the Chamber. So I ask you to ask Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's nice to talk about the failure of the PiS government, but electromobility is the flagship failure of this government. Four years ago, the PiS government announced a plan for the development of electromobility. Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski then announced that in 2025 on Polish roads 1 million cars will drive on current, 1 million cars. Where did they get that 1 million? Did somebody tell them? Any advisors? Did somebody do the math? No one calculated it and no one said it. A million sounds good. It's nice to let the public know there's gonna be a million. He drives $6.5,000, including hybrids, Minister, which you don't want to consider to be electric. It didn't work out. You're all in the middle of funding. And now for funding, Minister. This is what you did: an electric car subsidy for individuals - so-called. The green car, for taxi drivers - the hummingbird and for entrepreneurs - the EVAN. For the first 5 days [[♪ The bell ♪]] 150 applications were submitted. I mean, 30 a day is a lot, but after that, it was just worse. Why? Minister, because two-thirds of the cars want to buy entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurs can buy either a fare or a delivery car, and they can't make a passenger out of a delivery car anymore. Two-thirds of these cars want to buy entrepreneurs, and that's why you have to think: either you're doing good funding for entrepreneurs, or you're not doing anything at all. Because it's just a slogan, just like that 1 million electric cars. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u217	Thank you very much. I now ask Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Left Club is committed to developing low-carbon transport, which is why we support this project in the hope that the transfer of this fund to the national environmental fund will result in it being issued. During the previous discussion, I asked about the development of bus transport, the funding of local governments and the purchase of buses from this fund. Today I wanted to ask you about the train connections. Prime Minister Morawiecki brought 50 billion to fight climate change. This 50 billion can benefit mainly from low-carbon transport by 2027, as these are small projects, in fact projects ready because large projects in energy may run out of time. In the Wielkopolska Voivodship the metropolitan railway, which is financed by the voivodship government, has been insanely proven in this respect (Dzwonek). Can the regional government count on the basic funding of the development of this railway, the restoration of the liquidated line 412 to the Cross or the electrification of line 357 to Sulechów from Lubonia? There's a whole bunch of projects like this. The Metropolitan Railway brought great results in the Wielkopolska Voivodship, people switch from cars to this railroad, and the park & ride parking garages break in seams. And all we need is resources. You don't need the ministry's efforts, the Marshal of the voivodship will do it for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u219	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Low Emission Transport Fund was established in June 2018. Its task was to finance projects related to the development of electromobility and transport based on alternative fuels. I'm not gonna bother looking for that million electric cars. However, for today's time to say that electromobility in Poland is limping, it is still not enough, as in February 2020 there were 10,000 driving on Polish roads. electric cars and fully electric cars were 6,000. Cars. I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, in the project we are given that 5% expenditure is intended to constitute revenue linked to the development of public service bus services. On the basis of the above, 5% was calculated. And what can we count on in this regard? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's important to me. I would kindly ask you to present in writing both the tangible and the financial effects of the fund, which we will say goodbye after the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u221	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u222	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki promised 1 million electric cars, of which we have about 6 thousand. This is not the success of the PiS government. I won't bother either. What, on the other hand, is happening? You're shutting down the Low-Emission Transport Fund. But the task remains. The cities in Poland are still functioning under the influence of smog. Now, during the pandemic, we can see even more how this sustainable transport and distance are important. That is why I have a question: What are you planning to do so that this mechanism does not prove to be a failure? How do you want to support not only electric cars but also buses, trams and electric bicycles as in other European Union countries? Thank you very much, and I ask you to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u223	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. High Izbo! The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law on liability for breach of the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority responsible for the point of contact for products, print No 507. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you for listening to this message. And now I ask the Secretary of State in the Minister Ireneus's Climate Ministry to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u224	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Membership! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for your substantial work in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Parliamentary draft law. I'm really built by yesterday's meeting. I think that this work and all the voices, also critical, included concerns about the development of the electromobility market in Poland. First of all, I would like to thank Parliamentary Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for submitting a parliamentary bill on amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, specifically in terms of transformation, deburerocratisation, ultimately transferring the Low-carbon Transport Fund to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which will be able without the restrictions which so far exist, to have this fund. And I will tell you that, of course, I accept the criticisms of your parliamentarians from the opposition, but it must be said that the legislator who designed this law in 2018 had the best intention of forming, shaping the Low-carbon Transport Fund, which was to finance the development of electromobility, including the implementation of subsidies for low-carbon transport measures and the construction of charging infrastructure. On the other hand, in this well-understood idea of legal construction, mechanisms were introduced for the participation of several ministers, several ministries, in terms of agreeing or opinion on regulations to be issued for each action. Let me remind you that this is the 11 actions envisaged for the Low Carbon Transport Fund and it was necessary to issue as many as 22 regulations every time. The point is that this fund has been bureaucratic to such an extent, assuming that the fund is a one-year fund, that every year it is necessary to issue new regulations on the allocation and spending of funds in programming, the setting of directional programmes, the financing of the purchase of vehicles, collective transport vehicles and the purchase of charging infrastructure, etc. There were further events that took place last year in connection with the appointment of the new Council of Ministers, and later ended in 2019. I'm not gonna talk in too much detail anymore, so I don't miss too much time. Perhaps the marshal will allow me a few minutes... In general, I would like to point out that right now, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the initiative of the Members of Law and Justice is as much acceptable as possible, expected by us, and I think that using this parliamentary path, we can quickly lead to a situation where, in cooperation with the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, the National Environmental Fund, I will remind you, in cooperation with the Minister for Control, the Minister for Climate Affairs, who will also ensure that the programmes are designed and spent, he will be able to mobilise this fund. Let me remind you that if the law, as we assume, enters into force so that it can apply from 1 October, further programmes should be launched already in October, for example, for what they have mentioned and what the parliamentarians have asked - collective communication. Maybe I can answer a few questions. First of all, as far as the costs of the programme are concerned, it must be said that at 17 July 2020 the fund is currently worth 580 886 000. zł. Service costs for the years 2018 to 2020 are 827 thousand. zł. There were also questions about what value [[♪ The bell ♪]] the funds will be transferred to the national environmental fund. We estimate that by the end of September it will be worth about PLN 610 million. This will be done next year according to the projection of PLN 414 million as part of permanent contributions to the fund, which are the issue fee, which are also... Excuse me, I'd like to be precise. ...the funds transferred by the electricity transmission system operator, the proceeds from the replacement fee referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, proceeds from the emission levy. For 2021 we are expecting revenue of PLN 414 million, hence in 2021 the fund's budget should be around PLN 1 billion less the amount that the national fund will be able to spend on programmes implemented by the end of this year. I think it's not a small amount. Each year, it will increase in the following years. First of all, we are planning actions aimed at developing charging infrastructure, but also the financing of collective transport vehicles. First of all, the beneficiaries are local government units - one of the Members asked this question - but also entrepreneurs. I would also like to answer the question about the current three programmes, which are implemented from the own resources of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. I would like to remind you that these are three programs: the green car, the evan and the hummingbird. To date, some 220 applications have been submitted, and we have been able, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Polish law and European law, to design de minimis aid programmes. Therefore, such restrictions, which one of our fellow Members, Janusz Stęstnieński of the Left, was wondering or accusing us of, are they? Excuse me, I don't know if I wrote it right. Chopin. Chopin. Excuse me, sir. Mr. Janusz Szopiński. Only de minimis aid. Other conditions would have to be notified to the European Commission. Question about the Polish electric car. As you probably already know from the media, on 28 July, i.e. next week, the premiere of the Polish electric car will take place. I had a great pleasure to watch this car up close and even get to know the technical parameters. I'll tell you, folks, it's a bull's-eye, it's a market hit, and I think it's gonna fulfill the aspirations of the Polish market. It is also included in Polish national pride when it comes to the demand for a Polish car brand, longing for many, many years for Poland, a large country with such population, industrial and technological potential, which has not yet produced its own car... It will certainly be an electric car and it will be very popular. I'm sure of it. Here we go... What brand, Minister? Wait until July 28th. Then it'll explain the name of the brand. The entity, the company implementing this project, is ElectroMobility Poland - a Polish economic entity. And, ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that the Polish government, and in particular the Ministry of Climate, electromobility considers as a priority issue, as a fundamental issue because of the quality of life of Poles, the rate of life, also some kind of comfort of functioning, mainly in large cities, in urban agglomerations, but it is also an element of care for clean air, about air quality. We know that urban transport is a major smog factor. We have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] You're very close to the end, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: Yes, Marshal, I'm on my way to the end. It is only necessary to say here, supplementing the statements of the Members who asked questions, that at the moment there are more than 11 thousand driving in Poland. electric cars, ladies and gentlemen, including plug-in hybrids, so that they are not only 6.5 thousand. The electric cars you mentioned here. It is also important to look more closely at the whole market in the context of hybrid cars. Let us remember that in 2019, in the autumn, it was October, I myself was an applicant for the amendment of the excise duty Act. That's where they were introduced... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: ...low tax rates on hybrid vehicles, which at the moment allowed for a significant increase in market share... Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: ...cars, hybrid vehicles. The questions that I could not answer at that time, which I was given, for which I thank the marshal and your marshal very much, will be answered in writing. Once again, I thank all the parliamentarians for working on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u225	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (prints No 388 and 503). I would like to ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u226	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Infrastructure Commission on 21 July considered a government draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and certain other laws, print No 388. The project concerns the introduction of solutions to simplify the registration, temporary registration and registration of vehicles by vehicle owners. It also aims to reduce the administrative burden and tasks of the local authorities performing the vehicle registration task. Among the most important changes proposed, which have been prepared by both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Digitalisation, are: firstly, the abolition of the obligation to issue a vehicle card in the first registration process; secondly, the introduction of the possibility of retention at the request of the owner of the vehicle of the existing vehicle registration number, including legal registration plates, if the owner of the vehicle applies for registration of a vehicle which has already been registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland; thirdly, the introduction of the possibility of registration of a vehicle or the temporary registration of a vehicle at the request of the owner of the vehicle by the holder of the vehicle, also due to the place of temporary residence; furthermore, the possibility of temporary registration of the vehicle at the request of the owner of the vehicle where the vehicle is purchased or received also by the governor appropriate for the place of purchase or reception; secondly, the introduction of temporary registration of the vehicle for export abroad with the operation of registration of the vehicle from the office; the extension of the catalogue of vehicles temporarily withdrawn but to the extent necessary, i.e. a passenger car in case of need of repair due to damage to the essential supporting elements of the structure - from 3 to 12 months and no more than 3 years after the date of the previous withdrawal. In turn, the Ministry of Digitalisation's proposals included in this project include the following facilitations: firstly, the abolition of the obligation to issue a control sticker; secondly, the exemption of drivers holding a Polish driving licence from the obligation to hold a driving licence and show it during a road inspection; the introduction of the possibility of electronic registration of a new vehicle by an entrepreneur selling new vehicles on behalf of the buyer; or the provision of a report from the service provided by the Ministry of Digitalization My vehicle is the power of a document confirming the data collected in the central vehicle register. Several amendments and comments were tabled in the committee discussion. The Commission accepted amendments concerning, inter alia, standardization and clarification of terminology in the provisions of the Act, e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in Amendment 30, the record of the authorities competent to issue driving licences has been amended by the committee to issue documents stating that they are entitled to drive. The Commission also adopted editorial comments. The amendments rejected concerned, inter alia, extending the definition of an entity authorised to register the vehicle electronically on behalf of the buyer, removing the regulation prohibiting the placing of registration plates in a place other than the designally designated or the placing of reduced plates in normal places, changes concerning persons buying used cars, vehicles temporarily withdrawn from traffic, the possibility of registration of a car via the Internet, individuals and traders. During the discussion, one minority request was also made regarding the required technical status of the registration plates while maintaining the existing registration plates when the vehicle is re-registered. The Commission also presented this proposal in its report. The Infrastructure Commission brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u227	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is an important project, you can say, a deregulation package, which includes a government initiative to amend the Traffic Law and some other laws. I think that from a social point of view, from the point of view of car users and other vehicles allowed to move, this is a very far-reaching proposal that responds to social needs, also for those environments that are integral to the vehicle registration process, for the sale of cars to other users of traffic. In addition to these issues that the rapporteur has discussed, I would like to signal a few examples of regulations which include the change expected by the public. Mr Piotr King has already mentioned here the obligation to abolish the issue of a vehicle card at the time of the first registration. I would like to point out that, once the Ministry of Digitalisation of the CEPiK2 project had previously implemented, the current conditions for issuing vehicle cards as a document, which contained information on the history of the vehicle, adopted at the time of its introduction, for the prevention of car crime, have ceased to apply. Currently, as we know, the history of vehicle registration is possible to check in the central vehicle register not only by authorized entities, but for example. authorities registering vehicles, taxes, insurance companies and road traffic control. Thanks to this we simplify the process of first registration. Secondly, I would like to mention the implementation of the facilitation in the form of retention at the request of the owner of the vehicle of the existing vehicle registration number and registered registration plates if the owner of the vehicle applies for registration of the vehicle which was registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This is a huge ease, which is possible with the present possibility of identifying the vehicle, its history in the central register. Thirdly, another example is to allow the registration of a vehicle or temporary registration at the request of the owner of the vehicle by the governor responsible for the place of temporary residence. Here we meet the demands of our citizens, because of the existing facilitations in moving due to professional, personal needs. On several occasions, vehicle owners are temporarily staying in a place far from their place of residence and so far it has not been possible to register the vehicle at the place of temporary residence. It was, I think, a serious handicap identified by some of the vehicle users. For my part, I would like to signal that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is proposing five amendments to the current draft contained in the report, prints 388 and 503. In this respect, I would like to draw attention in particular to the amendment which aims to ensure the efficient implementation of the development project for the central register of drivers in the shape, which is defined by the Road Traffic Law of 5 January 2011. The adoption of the solution we propose will allow for the very efficient expansion of the ICT system, which is and is to be the target system serving the central register of drivers as defined in the 1997 Act. Of these five amendments, which we make, I would like to refer to the last amendment, which meets the comments made by the Polish Association of Automotive Industry, numerous comments were also made by representatives of car sales salons in relation to the art introduced. 73c Road Traffic Law Act. Here we introduce a definition, you can say, a uniform procedure when it comes to registration of trailers, mopeds, uniform customer service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] regardless of the type of vehicle which it is registered. So much for me. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u230	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! The aim of the changes we are discussing today is to make it easier to register vehicles. Some of these changes solve many problems or inconvenience, as in the case of the possibility of temporary withdrawal of a passenger car due to serious repair or the introduction of an electronic driving licence. Perhaps a step in the right direction are also other changes proposed by the government, but this project seems to be written on the knee, which even in case of good intentions can cause the baby to be poured out with a bath. In addition, as usual, the rulers do not want to talk to the opposition and the social side, as usual, they treat the laws as a manifestation of force. I am very sorry because it is worth talking about this matter seriously. According to data from the Central Statistical Office last year, there were almost 30 million vehicles in Poland. Such a project is therefore a great opportunity to make changes that will really prove useful to drivers. Unfortunately, this opportunity has not yet been taken advantage of. The government proposes the abolition of the vehicle card and the possibility of maintaining existing license plates. Why, then, can local governments not take over the printing of registrations? Where all information is available in IT systems, there is no need for this document to be produced in the Polish Securities Printing Works. Such a change would mean that vehicle owners would not have to visit the office twice in the same case. The government proposes to abolish the control sticker which was introduced for the purpose of better identification of vehicles. Perhaps it would be better to use this opportunity to change stickers to ones that inform about the level of pollution caused by the vehicle? These eco-labels exist in Germany or France. The government proposes that car dealerships be able to register electric cars, electronic cars. But for people who buy used cars, nothing will change. Why is there no comprehensive system for all citizens and citizens to benefit from? Why does the government delegate some of the public administration tasks to car dealerships? It's absurd, which will complicate the rules even more. Local authorities have very serious concerns about the project. In February, the Polish County Union called on the Prime Minister to suspend his work on this law. Local governments are afraid of another chaos funded by the rulers. The changes envisaged limit the duration of the existing vehicle registration activities by only 1 minute and additionally assign officials a number of new tasks, such as the assessment of the airworthiness of registration plates. Changes will also reduce the influence of local governments, which can impact especially on smaller local governments. According to comments submitted within the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, after the changes Kraków may lose almost PLN 4 million and the district of Miechowski - over 300,000. zł. At this point Minister Rafał Weber recently said that this money will remain in the pocket of citizens, but I am sure that citizens would prefer the public administration to function smoothly. Accepting changes in this shape may mean reducing the number of posts in many offices, which will increase queues, so the paralysis that we remember from the introduction of the CEPiK 2.0 system . So stop using populist language and let's think together about what the best solution is to get out of this situation. It is worth considering the introduction of a fixed fee for registration of a vehicle, which will replace the existing system of fees for the various components of this process. The comments from the Personal Data Protection Office also show how badly this project is prepared. In the opinion sent, President Jan Nowak expresses his concern at the solutions introduced and repeatedly stresses that they should be evaluated for the protection of personal data also at the stage of the legislative process. We should strive to create a comprehensive, coherent system that fully exploits the capabilities of current technologies. After making the proposed changes to the driver to register the vehicle, they will still have to go to the office twice and bring the license plates with them. It's a symbolic image. [[♪ The bell ♪]] digitization according to the PiS government. This bill - I'm almost done - requires very serious changes. Therefore, on behalf of local governments, experts, citizens, citizens we make a number of amendments. By the way, I'm gonna ask you here about the Road Safety Act. Why are we waiting so long for these regulations? I hope you will start to take drivers and all road users seriously. They really deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u231	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have no doubt that simplifying the conditions and modes of registration of vehicles is the right thing to do, and the proper implementation of this can lead to the relief of the authorities and the facilitation of the lives of our citizens and citizens. In addition, as is the abolition of the obligation to hold and issue a driver's licence during checks, to have a registration number sticker or to introduce the possibility of leaving the vehicle's registration number at the time of its re-registration. These changes are understandable, sensible and necessary in the Left's view. Of course, it is a pity that these changes do not assume full digitalisation of the system, but as Minister Wanda Buk said yesterday, this is currently not possible due to the threat of clogging the system. The Ministry promises that the changes currently being made will not result in any failure. Of course, we will check this thoroughly, and in the near future we are hoping for further steps, such as those advocated by the social side to allow the remote registration of the vehicle also to natural persons. Given that this amendment is needed and will simplify many procedures, the Left Club will vote in favour of this project. However, let us remember that this is not the most important change required by the Road Traffic Law. Traffic is not only an area for official regulation, but, above all, a safe space for movement, and here there is still much to be done to save the lives of thousands of Poles and Poles dying on the streets every year. I will remind you that today it is July 22nd, and 1 July 2020 was to enter into force the noisy changes announced by the Government of Law and Justice and by Prime Minister Morawiecki himself concerning the priority of pedestrians and higher penalties for drivers. According to the experts' suggestions, pedestrians were to be given priority as soon as they approached the pedestrian crossing. Another important change was to align the permissible speed to 50 km/h in a 24-hour built-up area. Interestingly, at the moment we are the only country in the European Union where you can drive faster than a day at night. The novel's authors also wanted a 50 km/h speeding risk of losing their driver's license. Let us remind you that such a provision currently applies only in a built-up area. The parking tickets haven't increased in 25 years. Statistics on road accidents in Poland are overwhelming. In the European Union, more people die on roads only in Bulgaria and Romania, and statistics published by the Police Headquarters show that the number of accidents with fatal outcome is increasing from year to year. Uh-huh. There were over 30,000 of them. accidents in which almost 3,000 people died. persons. During that time, 793 pedestrians were killed. 70% events occurred because of drivers. Half of these accidents occurred on a pedestrian crossing, resulting in 234 deaths on the lanes. Despite such drastic statistics, we have not yet seen a law to improve this situation. The project was stuck in the Ministry of Infrastructure at the stage of public consultation and has not even reached the Sejm yet. During the June meeting, the Left reminded the rulers of these promises. It is clear that the draft discussed today in the Parliament will facilitate many procedures and will be a small step towards the necessary digitisation of the system. Therefore, bearing in mind the small shortcomings and aspects highlighted by the social side, the Left will vote in favour of this project. However, and I must stress this once again, it is high time to address the key changes in the Law on Road Traffic, which the Prime Minister and himself promised. I understand that the election period may not have been conducive to such changes. However, I hope that now, after the election, we will take seriously the work and take care of the safety of the pedestrians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u233	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u234	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government draft law amending the law - Road traffic law and some other laws, prints No 388 and 503. At its meeting, the Sejm Infrastructure Commission welcomed the draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law, which provides for inter alia. digitization of registration of vehicles, the possibility to retain the existing registration number at the request of the owner and the abolition of the obligation to hold a driving licence. That is good, because there is a high social expectation of amending the provisions in this respect, which is intended to simplify the procedures currently in force. I'm just wondering one thing. Why don't we take a holistic look at these rules? We are constantly updating, constantly amending, probably immediately after the laws on taxation and social security, the law on road traffic is most often amended. These changes make it easier for citizens, vehicle owners, including entrepreneurs. They are intended to reduce the tasks and administrative burden of the local authorities accordingly, to improve the conditions for the legal circulation of vehicles, the references of data collected in the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers. It is a matter of introducing laws governing, or modifying, the current system solutions at law level. The aim is to take into account, at the level of the law, the conclusions of the examination of the implementing rules at previous meetings of the Legal Commissions at the Government Legislative Centre by introducing appropriate substantive provisions for matters currently covered by the Implementing Rules. That's the whole adjusting package. It is also important to exempt the holders of vehicles from their obligation to carry and display, for example, a driving licence during road traffic control. Abolishing the vehicle card, giving up the obligation to have a control sticker - all of this is of course very important, because we are changing the legal conditions, but also system solutions. That's what you need to think about. What was introduced ten and fifteen years ago today is out of reality. It's a good thing it's changed today. In view of the above considerations, on the basis of these proposals which I had previously mentioned and the assessment made - which seems reasonable - of identifying the changes that need to be regulated, there is a situation in which the proposed law makes it possible to propose provisions simplifying the registration process, the temporary registration process, the registration of vehicles with a view to making it easier for citizens, vehicle owners, which will also result in a reduction in the administrative tasks and burdens for the local authorities which carry out these tasks today. Of course, we're talking about vehicle registration. But wouldn't it be so that counties with no vehicle registration income will not be able to allocate funds to ensure an adequate number of jobs? Since project designers consider it necessary, they should also take into account its negative consequences and deal with them accordingly. The vehicle registration system must act as efficiently as possible and meet citizens' expectations. However, compromises should be put in place to this end. The proposed text will put the local authorities in a crazy challenging position. Unfortunately, the government cannot add money to its budget, unlike the government, which will cover every deficit with penalties and mandates, which is already visible in the first days after the presidential elections. Taking into account the facilitation and simplifications that concern most citizens, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 will support the government draft law on amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u235	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u236	And that was gonna be a cool bill. The world championships are always great for us, too, and then we don't leave the group. And here, unfortunately, for now, there's a little rain from the big cloud, and the mountain gave birth to a mouse. Since the ministry has already started deregulation, for making life easier for drivers, I don't understand why it's standing over the tub like a cat: a little paw will soak, a little fur will splash, and it won't bathe. We introduce, hallelujah, the possibility of official withdrawal from the movement of a passenger car, which is something that is an absolute standard probably all over the world. But we do it with such shyness as we take our first steps on Mars and just wonder if something green He won't jump out of the rock and eat us with the ship. The introduced possibility of withdrawal of a car from traffic is subject to so many conditions and so cut off as if it were really the first open heart operation. Why can a car be withdrawn only for a period of 3 to 12 months, although a truck can be withdrawn for 48 months for a long time? Why should other regulations apply to one car or another? Why can you only withdraw a car with damage to the bearing, braking or steering systems and not with damage to the propulsion system anymore? So, according to the provisions of the Act, you can discharge a car that drives with a hole in the eavesdropper, i.e. a car that is efficient, that drives - it doesn't say that it can't drive, because it's a damage to the bearing system - and you can't pull back a car with a fuzzy engine that's not gonna hurt anyone, unless, I don't know, it falls off a mechanic's lift on the head. And it can take more than 12 months to rebuild such an engine in the case of an unusual car, especially if someone is digging it up. Why limit that it is not possible to withdraw a car before 3 years later? Has the Ministry discovered any previously unknown dependence that heavy car damage cannot happen again, e.g. After a year and a half? Why are you three years old? Why should this even be limited to damaged cars? Why do you think if I'm going away for a year, say, and I lock my car in the garage, I still have to pay the OC? Why are you hustling people to pay for something they don't use? Why is the government of our country involved in soliciting clients to insurance companies instead of taking sides with citizens? I know it wasn't you who made it up. many terms. All parts, in turn, have concreted and erected this system, with the glorious exception of the Confederation, keep us, O Lord, from these filthy errors. But now that you're on it, why do you still care more about the full pockets of insurers than the empty driver's pockets? Why should a citizen even explain himself to an official why he wants to withdraw his car? Isn't that my damn business why I don't want to use the car? [[Applause]] And you're not just saying that with grace you're throwing such a scrap: from 3 to 12 months, you're still making a citizen swear under the threat of criminal liability at all sanctity that the damage to his car is definitely a sign of material damage. You have full power, do something good from start to finish. It's not about any cosmetics, it's about a brave reform that restores us some freedom and dignity without kneeling to officials. I know the insurance lobbyists are gonna moan, and I've also read these notes to the project. But what do you want to leave behind, Minister? A little looser collar for a citizen or broken handcuffs? What will you tell your grandchildren? Are you going to tell me that Grandpa was such a hero that he allowed the subjects to take a break from paying the state to the bankers for a period of 3 to 12 months, if the citizens swear on the Bible that their car suffers from one of the short list of cases that allows it, they will pay 150 zlotys and do an additional technical examination? Wow, grandpa, really, amazing. Oh, no. Maybe you want to tell some more interesting story about how you blew up a saddle of exploiters taking money from poor people for the imaginary damage done by non-cars. Plus, we eliminate one absurdity, and the other we create. The point is that the car can be withdrawn from traffic for a maximum of 12 months, so after 12 months it should be turned on. But in order to incorporate them into the movement, it must undergo mandatory additional tests. What if the repairs weren't finished? Why would you say 12 months? On what grounds do you claim that every car can be repaired in 12 months? So if this repair hasn't been completed, the car won't pass those technical tests and it won't be able to be switched on. So it will be suspended in such an interworld that it cannot be turned on and can no longer be turned off. Everything's really just to make sure that the money's in the insurance company. I am putting forward a package of amendments which met with a chilly reception, as always, on the committee. Let me remind you that the Confederation still has a clean slate for the government's amendments. I hope it's the first time. You're facing a choice: lobbyists or citizens. Choose well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u237	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the opportunity that Minister Weber is in the Chamber, I would like to know when an amendment to the Law on Road Traffic will appear, which will improve the safety of pedestrians Poles and Poles. Last year, almost 3,000 people died in accidents. 793 persons and 793 persons in pedestrian cases. The highest traffic offense ticket is 500 zlotys. In this context, it is worth recalling that people without a driver's license and driving a car will also be waiting for this highest mandate, i.e. the mentioned 500 PLN. When are we gonna raise those stakes? When will the government finally take care of the safety of pedestrians, the lives of thousands of children, women and men? That's not true. When will the government finally deliver on its promises? 8 people die every day on the roads in Poland. There's nothing to wait for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u239	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll repeat myself. I won't say anything about what my fine colleagues have already said and will say in the future. I'm going to talk about something that doesn't apply to this project, which should be about electric scooters again. At a speed of 60 km/h, with powerful engines rushing around the city and, in fact, without a shadow of a doubt, they can only move on the sidewalks like pedestrians. When are you going to solve this problem? When will the dogs not have to pass the scooters, also on the safety lanes? Please propose solutions as soon as possible, e.g. So these scooters can ride on the road as well. The question is, who allowed these scooters in Warsaw? That's important too. Please answer me - I would be grateful if this time this answer had been given - what the Ministry has plans in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u242	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The truth is, if the government cares about something, it can even throw compensation for envelope elections in the middle of the night at the Health Committee meeting. But, Minister - we will remind you of this at every session of the Sejm - eight months ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki promised to introduce rules on the priority of pedestrians. When they weren't there, they weren't. Are we waiting until the first anniversary of the promise made by Prime Minister Morawiecki to introduce records that should be standard when it comes to road safety? Ladies and gentlemen! Polish society is ageing the fastest in Europe. We've got more seniors, people with dementia, limited autonomy, perception. They're puppies to be protected. We would also like to remind you that there is a Parliamentary project of the Civic Coalition in this area. We're waiting on a government project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to get to work. But if this continues, the Committee on Infrastructure will work on the parliamentary project on its own, because it's just... Thank you very much. ... You can't be counted on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u243	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. There isn't. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u244	A bunch of questions. You are introducing the possibility of leaving existing license plates when changing owners. Bravo. But why maintain the rite of re-legalization of these plates in this situation? What's it for? We're talking about leaving the existing ones, already legalized, plates. I didn't find that out at the committee meeting, maybe now I'll find out what it's for, except that, I don't know, the head of the communications department could dance the panthers out there and put a new sticker on it. And the second thing that keeps me awake. Why can a buyer of a new car with an authorized dealer use the luxury of authorising him to deal with the registration formalities and others no longer? Minister Wanda Buk explained this with limited IT capabilities, but I do not understand this translation. Because now that we're running a new car registration system, what happens if the same dealer sells us a used car and tries to use it? The system's gonna crash? Or if it's not an authorized dealer, it's an unauthorized dealer, then what if the traffic stops in the server room? Why can't this be used in other situations? What's the explanation here, apart from lobbying for exclusivity, for authorized dealers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really glad to hear that it shouldn't be a party matter, that it shouldn't be that way. I even agreed with the Left sometimes on some matters, because traffic is a cross-party institution, but I still hear accusations that you and that, etc., are on the party line. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the Mrs Lewis here, asking her whether she is aware of what she has said. Well, she said more than 3,000 were killed. people, of which 700 pedestrians. This shows that about 2,300 drivers are killed. And you have to ask yourself, how many of them die because of pedestrians, in situations where pedestrians have invaded the road and the driver to avoid an accident or even avoid an accident, they die by the way. Pets are also responsible for many road accidents. Of course I do, I'm a driver and I'm perfectly aware of how many times I've barely avoided an accident the perpetrator of which would be a pedestrian. So that you kindly consider it. In the Czech Republic, as the priority for pedestrians has been introduced, the number of accidents has increased, because then pedestrians feel like a holy cow and get on the road, [[♪ The bell ♪]] No. Looking. And two tons will unfortunately not stop. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u248	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! You can't talk about traffic, not to mention pedestrian safety at the same time. It is not that road users are exclusively drivers. They're also puppies. However, it is clear that for the governing puppies they are not a priority, because the draft law, which was to deal with the safety of pedestrians, was still not created. I would therefore like to ask why there is no project so far that is so important, necessary and expected... Because that would be ridiculous. ...because here, above all, there are such absurdities, that e.g. as in my district, in Tarnowskie Góry, wanted to (The Bell)... The puppies felt very threatened there and asked them to build islands, but they were told that they couldn't build islands because... Thank you very much. Now, wait a minute, Marshal. ... If that happens, the drivers will have to go free. There was also a dangerous passage. in Gliwice. And instead of making them safe, they've been wiped out, so now the puppies are going illegal. So I would like to call on the government to finally address the issue of pedestrian safety and to make the bill ready. Thank you very much. Thank you, and I apologize for the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u249	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I must say that I am constantly surprised to believe that the bill will replace common sense and secure infrastructure. I guess that's the vibe. Turning to the subject of this amendment, I would like to say that, of course, it contains, I would say, lightly facilitating, also contains absurdities which are the result of the influence of the corporation, and this influence on the government of law and justice is well. On the other hand, some of these regulations are financially hitting local governments. And of course, despite the fact that these are good changes for people, ignoring the fact that the influence of local governments is simply very inadequate in relation to what these local governments need today. Why do you ignore this fact? Why are there no safeguards for these influences? The comments of the Personal Data Protection Office have been sent. They show very clearly that this law does not care about security at all. Why are the proposed entries, although not large, not included? Finally, the last thing, the legalization (the bell) of the used ICT system, which at first was intended to be used exclusively for the transmission of information between departments and the manufacturer of blanks. It turns out that today it is a powerful system that contains personal data of all Poles who own cars. The question is why you don't want this system through a normal tendering procedure... Thank you very much, sir. ...only transfer hundreds of millions of zlotys to one supplier. Why do you allow the data of Polish drivers and vehicles to be held by foreign corporations that do not really know to whom they are made available? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For many years we have been updating traffic regulations, but we have a weak position as regards the number of accidents, the number of fatal accidents, in the European Union. Why, for example? in Lithuania... My voivodship, Podlaskie, is neighbouring Lithuania. When I drive in, for example, going to Poląga, I see that everyone drives there by the rules, and the truckers, when they enter the Podlaskie voivodship, are breaking the rules. Have these tests been done? Can we not follow the laws of our neighbours, implement them to reduce the number of accidents in our country? Thank you very much. It doesn't have anything to do with this project at all. This is crazy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u253	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Road safety is the safety of millions of Poles and Poles, which is the safety that needs to be considered systematically, which is the safety that needs to be considered in the future. Therefore, one of the elements that is lacking in such a discussion about the future today is education, which should include, already at primary school level and later at secondary school level, the elements that will implement, teach and above all represent traffic as normal, because we gain a driving licence when we are 16 and 18 years old, and we are not talking about what might happen to us on the road. Sometimes - training with a police officer, sometimes - conversations that happen in high school during WOS lessons. There's no systemic approach to security. We do not teach what safety is from a pedestrian perspective and from a driver's perspective. We should start, and that's the job of the state. In 2019 there were more than 30 thousand on Polish roads. accidents. Nearly every tenth of the time, a person was killed. That's an equal slope. If we don't secure it at school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna get worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What does that have to do with anything? What does that have to do with this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u255	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Districts Association has raised a number of objections to the law. I wanted to focus on one question, one question, namely the car registration process. Why isn't there a straight path for personal registration of cars? Why do we have to drag car dealerships into this? Isn't that kind of a complication and dragging private actors into the administrative process? Will the car dealerships do it for free? Doesn't that have certain lobbying marks? Can't you just create a simple way of electronic registration of cars by a natural person to do so without these two visits to the office? Isn't it possible? use for this ePUAP system, which was created during the Platform and PSL governments? You might, however, consider developing a method of simple, rapid registration, either during one visit or electronically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u257	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! God bless you, dear government! Don't you think, however, that the law on traffic and pedestrians, and those on wheels in different numbers, is an extreme case of overregulation, creativity in subsequent generations of lawmakers joyfully cultivated? Isn't it time to get back to normal? Getting back to normal is, for example. would be to withdraw from the preventive repressivity in street traffic. Notice that through this gate, on the pretext of increasing security, we introduced preventive repression: slowers, trainer systems, their control, surveillance, and prospective surveillance. If Poland is to remain [[♪ The bell ♪]] isn't there in the government's plans for a comprehensive work to collect all the garbage that we have left after the Polish People's Republic, in this area, and simplify this system? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u260	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! More than a year ago, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki declared to deal with the issue of road safety, while around 3,000 people die on Polish roads. persons. 165 people have been killed since the beginning of the holiday, according to the Association City is Ours. About eight people die on Polish roads every day. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really the scale of shame. Meanwhile, the Polish government deals with license plates. Important things, but much more important is road safety and this is a real priority; you should not put these matters aside for a saint ever. Ladies and gentlemen! My hot question is, when are we going to get a real pedestrian protection bill? When are we gonna take care of personal transport devices? When are we gonna get the sidewalks out of the scooters and other equipment? These are real pedestrian problems (the bell) and road users. Thank you. And the driver's protection is what? Every driver is a pedestrian. And not every pedestrian is a driver. Equality between citizens and the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u261	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Mrs. Wanda Buk, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Few questions have been addressed directly to the Minister of Digitization, which is why I will start and, hopefully, I will answer quickly. Mr Sosnierz, as well as a few other Members, during his speeches and summaries of his work in committee, pointed out that we are giving the opportunity, for the time being, for the first electronic registration of vehicles only bought - as new - with authorised dealers. First of all, let's mark one fact here. We do not mean that these are specific entities in the form of authorised dealers, but that they are new vehicles that do not have a previous history of the vehicle. This is the tip of the iceberg. You all paid attention to the fact that the system should be opened immediately and the best way to change the whole functioning of the local government and more than 400 communication departments in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The digital transformation is not done overnight, it is not done in such a way, by one rule, which is that we extend the catalogue of entities that can register a car, the purchased vehicle. We need to do a needs analysis, we need to do an analysis of the availability of the equipment, we need to do an analysis of what the competences in the communication departments look like. It's not a simple thing and you shouldn't do it overnight. It must be a thoughtful, precise process. Of course, the idea is good and in this direction we are walking exactly, what we are doing today, this is the first stage. It is not worth waiting for this first stage, to implement this first stage until we do not decipher all communications departments in our country, so we decide to give what is possible today. But of course, as I said, this is where we are going all the time, and we are working together with the Ministry of Infrastructure on this. Mr Suchoń pointed out that the Office for the Protection of Personal Data had formulated critical comments. The data protection authority has not formally withdrawn from this, and much has been explained to it by our subsequent discussions, which were mainly based on the fact that the system that you have also asked about is not a new system, it is not a newly introduced system. This is a system that is almost 20 years old, and certainly 18. What we propose as part of the change is the necessary changes in the introduction of new technologies. On the other hand, a number of comments from the Office for Personal Data Protection were due to concerns that our regulations which we introduce concern personal data, in a situation where personal data are not relevant. This is about vehicle data, so there is no concern about any violation or any risk of unauthorised processing. And, of course, the GDPR and the Personal Data Protection Act will apply as much as possible to the rest of the scope. You have further alleged that we are ignoring the fact that local governments have reduced the impact of sticker revenues. This has also occurred in several other statements by the other Members. You can't say we're ignoring it. This discussion was long and finally we negotiated with local governments, although it was not accepted by all local authorities, and anyway it will actually affect the revenue to their budget, and they have time to prepare for it, because we gave 48 months for the final obligation to issue the sticker to disappear. We cannot make citizens pay for something that is completely unnecessary. In no other country of the European Union, such a sticker does not work, it is unnecessary, so I do not fully understand why we should maintain this state of affairs in this case. Just to keep the local governments in control? But it doesn't seem to make any sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u263	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u264	Ladies and gentlemen! I have good news. Coming down here, I have determined with the Minister that the vacathio legis on the vehicle card sticker will be only 24 months, not 48 months. That, of course, is a slip of the Minister's tongue. Yeah, that's right. The Minister has missed a lot of things. Ladies and gentlemen! Several infrastructure issues. Our resort led, continues this project, but of course there is a large contribution of the Minister of Digitization, there are also arrangements with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. At first glance, as this law is being read, it may seem that what a problem it is to prepare such regulations and create a whole organisation of vehicle registration in such a way and not in any other way, but it really took months of internal discussion, many months of consultation with local partners and various kinds of organisations and associations. Some of these findings are included in this draft amendment. I would like to thank all those who have an impact on the changes we are proposing once again very warmly. I repeat once again that the changes are really very big: abolishing the vehicle card, abolishing the control sticker, driving without a document, without a driver's license - these are really things that Poles have been expecting for many, many years. No one has ever had the courage, nor the idea of how to give up these issues, and this is happening in our common times, so that I encourage all of you to vote in favour of these laws and to introduce these necessary changes to the Polish legal order together with us. Ladies and gentlemen! We looked at the amendments that were made so quickly. Some of them have already reached us. At first glance some of them may also be accepted, so that... Tomorrow, as far as I know, will be the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. We will refer to them directly after a deeper thought, while some of these amendments seem to have a positive recommendation from the Ministry of Infrastructure, and as far as I know, they were also prepared at the request of the social party. This is proof that we are able at this point where the social side is actually right, to acknowledge this right and to make some changes in our legal proposals. Minister Wanda Buk spoke about issues related to the understanding of the local government, hence the 24-month vacatio legis, so as to give time to local governments, district oldities, to reorganize their work within the office and adapt it to the new legislation that will be in force soon. Of course, many questions did not directly concern this project. Many questions are generally related to traffic, issues related to road safety. We from the very beginning, communicating our proposals for changes in terms of priority for pedestrians, stressed that this is one of the elements that aim to create safe conditions for all road users. Investment is the most important element, ladies and gentlemen - and this is what Mr Suchoń has also pointed out. Dear country, it has been in recent weeks that it has been decided to increase investment in Poland in order to increase the expenditure limit from the national road construction programme by PLN 22 billion and to implement the next sections of express roads, the S6 expressway and the S10 expressway in the coming years. So that this is a tangible effect of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which will undoubtedly contribute to increased road safety. The second element is the promotion of safe road attitudes - I repeat once again - among all road users: pedestrians, cyclists, drivers of vehicles up to 3.5 t, also drivers of heavier vehicles: and these trucks, and buses. Such actions throughout the country in all regions of course They're happening. The third element is the law. But once again, the law is one of the three elements that affect road safety. I am convinced that the High House and a large part of society will see changes in the legislation related to the strengthening of security. Thank you very much for the discussion, for all the comments that have been made now in plenary, but also at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. I ask that these important, expected and necessary changes be accepted by us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the High House in great agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u265	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, as corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u266	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The Minister was kind enough not to understand me. Or maybe... It is difficult to consider as a serious construction that the Minister has presented regarding the reconciliation with local governments and with the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, namely that the government has spoken and the matter is settled. Minister, it's really a false assumption that if you've had a conversation with someone, they've made your point and they've already agreed to everything. That's not true. First thing. The President of UODO took very seriously the situation in which the law does not impose an obligation on anyone to ensure an adequate level of protection of the data processed. You're running away from it, fearing responsibility. That's why you don't want to put it in the bill. Second thing - stickers. Nobody here said these stickers should be left behind, but everyone can see, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this is another rule that hits the financial stability of local governments, hits investment. That's the problem. You don't see it, and you're running from it. We don't agree to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u267	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Piotr Król, will also be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Seym! Well, I regret to say, with all due respect to all those who have spoken, that the person who read this project may have had serious doubts as to whether some of the votes were from those who got acquainted with this project. I would like to say shyly that this project does not in any way concern traffic rules, pedestrian priority etc., but in my opinion it deserves to be defined: a deregulation package. Throughout the administrative process, anyone who ever bought a car, registered it, etc., met with many absurdities. There is respect for both ministries for the fact that they finally decided to eliminate the absurdity of this - a horse with a row of those who understood it - that when I bought a car from the owner of the same community where I live, I didn't have to change the registration, and when I bought it from next door or from any other one, I had to change the registration. A horse with a row of those who understood why in Poland it was necessary to stick stickers on the glass, since each vehicle has a VIN number. I'm sorry, but I'm already saying that if local governments don't charge VIN fees, the investments are going to fall, and it's probably the best thing to say about the government budget. Self-governments should be rich and rich in the wealth of their inhabitants. If there is more money left for the residents, will the local government be poorer or richer? [[Applause]] Bravo! Doesn't that apply to the government of the Republic of Poland? Thank you for the applause from Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, who is the idol of my son, so this is a special satisfaction. But let me say modestly that we were hoping that this deregulation package, especially in the Confederate Members, would arouse at least a little enthusiasm. I'd say enthusiasm was light, moderate. On the other hand, I would very much ask you to appreciate that this whole project is based on deregulation... Appreciate it. ...to reduce administrative absurdities, to reduce drivers' costs, to reduce administration... We appreciate that, but we have... Mr. Janusz, as if you'd be kind enough to let me finish. ...and to reduce bureaucratic procedures. That's what he's focused on. With all due respect, someone read in the title of the Act, that this is a draft law on amending the Law on Traffic, and something happened to him, I'm sorry, connected, so coming from such an assumption, it's really worth reading the bill draft. I would just like to remind you that we have recently had such an event in Poland, when the driving lady thought that as a multitone train whistles, warning her that it is going, it means that it gives way to its priority. I'm sorry, but some of those speeches were in, corresponding to the level of knowledge about the lady's traffic. I hope that the adoption of this bill will at least improve knowledge in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Finally some normal voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u269	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 on the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft government law amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in connection with and after the outbreak of COVID-19 (prints Nos 483 and 505). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a thick document, but I will not read everything, because I am obliged only to submit a report to the Health Committee on the review of the Law on the Government draft law amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic and after it has ceased. The printing was addressed to the Health Committee where the first reading took place. The print was 483. Yesterday, the Health Commission carried out its first reading of the draft law and at the same time examined the provisions contained therein. This results in a report which I would like to present. This law is a very complicated act because it comes directly from the epidemiological threat that has affected us, the whole of Europe and the world. It's about the risk of the Coronavirus epidemic, COVID-19. This situation has caused us to accept many documents in a very short time, including. On 2 March, 31 March, then in April, which dealt precisely with the legal regulations relating to many aspects of our lives in relation to the prevention of the spread of the disease and the prevention of this virus. This law, of course, mainly concerns two important laws, i.e. the Law of 2 March on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19 and the crisis situation caused by it, as well as the Law of 31 March in the same wording. It has also covered many other projects that it has changed. I don't want to mention them all because there are a lot of them, but it's affected mostly issues related to what has been regulated by certain systems in health care that work differently today. The first on the shore is, for example, a doctor's profession law, where due to restrictions of contact we have interrupted the proper training processes of both residents and trainees. This law regulates all these matters so that the outbreak itself does not complicate young people, young doctors whom we very much need, opportunities for social, professional promotion and, of course, opportunities for obtaining special powers. Therefore, both trainees and residents have received a specific package of solutions that will allow them to agree on the provisions of the examinations and thus acquire the professional title and the right to pursue the profession of doctor, as well as the title of specialist. These are very important things, some of which are far-reaching, because in the case of certain specialized exams after the residence period today you can carry out an exam differently than it has worked so far, i.e. in two stages: a test, written exam, and later an oral exam, because this was the procedure of a state specialized examination. Now in special situations you will only be able to choose one of these roads: either an oral exam or a test. A similar situation applies, of course, to residents, where certain regulations mainly concerned the medical final exam and the dental examination. I would of course like to say that this also applies to other health professionals - nurses and midwives, physiotherapists, pharmacists. They have their training cycles, too. In addition, at that time there were problems related to the selection of statutory authorities of professional corporations, professional self-governments, as defined in the Constitution. Therefore, in the case of physiotherapists, nurses and midwives, for example, some possible transfers were made as regards the time limits for organising the election of the statutory authorities of the nursing home, nurses and midwives, and pharmacists. At the same time, transitional provisions have been laid down which could facilitate the provision of specific degrees of specialisation. Of course, some problems have also been solved when it comes to things that have been included in laws such as pharmaceutical law, medicines and medical devices, which I will mention later. The pandemic period is a period of incredible competition for access to medicines, medical devices, personal protective equipment and diagnostic equipment, famous ventilators. Therefore, we are saying here that certain provisions relate to the precise arrangements under which medicines, medical devices, medical equipment which are not fully confirmed do not have European certificates, because such situations occur. It is quite (the bell) a complicated procedure described in the Act. Another important issue, of course, is also the change in the organisation of the National Health Fund. The National Health Fund will be set up because the National Health Fund is an entity that provides us with the financing of health benefits, and not, as to this day, some people think, the financing of voivodship branches. To conclude, because I don't have much time left... Time's up, Minister. I would also like to say that it will be possible to continue to use interactive advice, with virtual advice, because it is possible to extend the implementation of such advice, for example by POZ. Finally, I must say that all these changes, including other developments, will result in one thing - in order to calm down - the financial plans of the National Health Fund will be unchanged, firstly, and future plans constructed in all these disorders, because some of the funds we have granted for the fight against the coronavirus, must be no smaller than those in the next year... Thank you very much. ...which were in the current fund's financial plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u271	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u272	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The draft law amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19 aims to introduce further instruments, further health protection arrangements, which will ensure the smooth and effective functioning of this system, including effective protection against the possibility of coronavirus infection and the fight against COVID-19. This bill is multi-directional. It affects so many areas that it is difficult to address all the problems raised. Changes in the project, although it introduces changes in 16 laws, can be grouped into several main domains. The first domain is the provisions relating to training in all medical professions, where proposals for regulation introduce solutions for individual medical professions during the current epidemic and after the outbreak the continuation of post-graduate education or the carrying out of oral examinations in a remote form. There is also the possibility of exemption from the oral part or the test part, depending on the profession. It is proposed to introduce provisions that allow for a specialized examination of doctors, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists or physiotherapists only in one form, oral or written examination, where, due to the safety of persons taking part in this examination, it will not be possible to carry out both parts of the examination. The project enables electronic applications to start training with physiotherapists. The proposal provides for an opinion on applications for recognition of the scientific, professional acquis in circulation using accessible ICT systems or communication systems. The second domain that can be defined as an area regulated by this law is issues related to health IT. Let me remind you that solutions such as e-release, e-prescription, e-book are already in place, which work perfectly at this particular time, which is determined to avoid the risks associated with COVID-19. It's a digression from here. Minister, big bows and thanks... To ventilators. And the masks. ...because I know it's mostly because of you, your commitment and your enormous work, and of course the Minister. Therefore, this law proposes new solutions for computerisation or clarification of those that work, but practice shows that they need some adjustment, some improvement. The proposed law refers to an IT system that will allow records of health resources, which will allow monitoring, what equipment is available and where it is available, what is its usefulness and how it is used to manage existing resources optimally. The amendment responds to the needs of the electronicisation of the procedure for the import of targeted and intervention medicinal products and the procedures for the import from abroad of foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses necessary to save life or health without the need to notify the Chief Health Officer of the placing on the market. Another proposed change involves the creation of a target import system called the SOID system. This system will allow for the circulation of electronic demand between the doctor issuing the demand, the consultant confirming the validity of the issue and the Minister responsible for Health. In addition, the SOID system will make it possible to obtain a decision enabling the import from abroad of a medicinal product or food for particular nutritional uses. The Act introduces new possibilities for financing health IT-related tasks, e.g. The health fund will be able to commission the creation of IT systems to an institution such as the Centre for Health Information Systems. Finance. This cooperation appears to be necessary and should be much closer if we expect progress in the area of health IT. Of course, there are many other regulations, such as the inclusion of health inspection bodies in the catalogue of entities for which donations can be made. Another regulation (The Bell) is to enable midwives to provide health services to all patients regardless of gender and age, together with the definition of the scope of these benefits... And a lot more. To conclude, I would like to inform you that the Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill under review and hopes that both Parliaments will be able to proceed effectively with this law. I have one more remark. Your Marshal, the amendments are printed. I'll report it to you during this point. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Half a minute longer, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u273	Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u274	Thank you, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic and after its cessation, print No 483. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law in its original form contained mainly the content related to the title of the law. The project concerned changes in 16 laws, as has been said here, and met the expectations of the medical community. It covered a number of aspects of the provisions relating to post-graduate education, examinations, electronicisation of target import requirements, supervision of marketing conditions, manufacture and import of medicinal products, financing of benefits obtained outside the country, financing of information technology by the NFZ, making the length of settlement periods more flexible, obtaining the title of specialist. It also covered all those points that had already been mentioned. And this project, ladies and gentlemen, did not raise much opposition in us. However, during the committee meeting amendments were submitted, which have not yet been mentioned here, actually only the rapporteur, who spoke of a substantial amendment, started the subject. These amendments were in volume equal to the draft law and in fact changed the original designers' intention. One of the amendments, which has 23 parties, as the originator stated in the explanatory memorandum, is pioneering the NFZ, and the most important thing for it was that all NFZ employees would be subject to the President and therefore earn equally. In that case, we are waiting for the moment when it will apply to all health professionals across the country, so doctors, nurses, psychologists, administrative staff, no matter where they work. So it's the head office, the president, that's gonna decide everything. In this amendment, in any case, the words: the director of the voivodship branch were replaced by the word: the President. The question therefore arises: Is the substance of these changes slow, systematic centralisation of the national activities of the fund? Are we going back to the same roots as the '50s, '70s? Maybe the style is different, but the goal is the same. And will this centralization therefore only stop at the National Health Fund? But these are not the only changes that do not allow us, the Civic Coalition, to support this law. I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to speak of others. [[Applause]] We don't know why. Yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u275	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u276	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I will talk about the asshole, what the rapporteur did not say, because I think he was ashamed of what the Member representing the Law and Justice Club did not say. What is it? The government, Prime Minister Morawiecki, needs a document so that he is not punished so that he can continue his duties. The point is that the need for a document, the need for a provision which guarantees that the Prime Minister's order, given without any legal basis, will become legal today, that the Prime Minister will not be responsible for this and will be able to continue his role. Why? The State has spent PLN 70 million on pseudo-articulated envelopes without any legal basis. If there has been a breach of public finances discipline, it is therefore a threat that public spending activities for a period of between 1 and 5 years may be prohibited. Thus, such a threat was caused by the so-called. order issued by the Prime Minister and Mr Sasin, and therefore also by the President of the Polish Post. You've spent... It's like I walk into a bank, ask for 70 million and then say, "I'm not responsible for anything." It's a problem of the same kind and you're the whole camera... And the fact that our money, our public money, has been spent, you don't talk. And that's the biggest shame for this power. In addition, you are trying with these amendments - and you are also not talking about it - to take the first or second step towards the liquidation of the National Health Fund. If that's what you want to do... Maybe it's the right thing to do. Maybe we'll talk about it, but certainly not when we introduce this bill. In this bill, we want... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was intended to be a law ensuring the functioning of health protection during the COVID-19 pandemic period. We are presenting amendments, and we are certainly putting the issue of responsibility here, because the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Sasin should be responsible for this situation. [[Applause]] In addition, we propose that other amendments be discarded. This bill in the shape that the state pushed through... The Prime Minister didn't sign here because it's a government project. He was ashamed to take care of himself that way. You've made some changes. We make amendments, we file a motion to reject this project in general, because it is only suitable for baskets in this shape. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u277	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. And please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Health Committee has come to process another draft law under conditions that do not guarantee the quality of lawmaking. The committee's proceedings started yesterday at 3 p.m. 8:30 and lasted until midnight. What is happening in our country that needs to be processed at such an express rate? Sure, preparing for the second wave of epidemics that may occur is important, but the deliberations can be scheduled for a few days, and a law of 93 pages can be passed at the next meeting of the High House. The legislative quality of the document submitted is best demonstrated by the fact that the volume of amendments submitted by the PiS club exceeds the volume of the original project submitted. I don't think it's even worth mentioning about the lack of reliable public consultation. A large part of this law concerns the centralisation of the functioning of the National Health Fund, although more precisely it is necessary to use the term, which often fell from the government, i.e. the so-called. Pionization of the NFZ structure. This pionization in its essence is nothing more than putting the directors of the NFZ voivodship into a vertical position. In practice, branch directors were incapacitated and a significant part of their powers were taken away from them by the NFZ headquarters. The current power with stubbornness worthy of a better cause effectively captures further areas of functioning of public institutions, bringing them together in one strong party hand. The COVID-19 epidemic has led to significant acceleration in all projects related to e-government and IT support of the patient. The submitted project organizes and adapts the health care system to the IT, remote patient service, and this is a good one that deserves to support the direction of change. Unfortunately, the Act also contains worrying records that do not adequately protect patients' data processed through mobile applications and e-mails. The Left in its amendments, which unfortunately did not find support among the ruling majority, proposed that information about our health status, medicines purchased and taken or medical procedures carried out should not be made available to entities other than the state which guarantee their safe storage and processing. In the European Union, health data are generally excluded from free movement. They have the status of sensitive data which cannot be made available in any form to commercial entities. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, I will again make an amendment to prevent such practice. Unfortunately, the proposed law, as in many of the Health Committee's cases, includes obsessively tracking officers who have not existed for 30 years from the Security Service. Law and Justice in the name of the so-called. decommunization closes the road to managing the NFZ to former officers who, regardless of their past performance, have been thrown into a single bag and have collective responsibility. Of course, the Left strongly opposes such laws that have nothing to do with a democratic legal state. We will therefore, of course, make an appropriate amendment. However, these are not the only shortcomings of the bill submitted. Only thanks to the insidiousness of Mr Jan Szopiński and after a turbulent discussion, the representative of PiS withdrew the amendment imposing a reduction in employment in health care providers. Unfortunately, he said that such an amendment forcing workers to be fired would come back during the second reading. Unfortunately, the ruling majority rejected the doctor, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, expected by both the medical community and patients, an amendment eliminating the threat of 8 years in prison for doctors making mistakes in art. It is worth noting that the provision maintaining prison sentences for doctors is also addressed to patients, because doctors, fearing such a draconian punishment, may refrain from performing procedures or medical procedures with too much risk. However, the party of power would not have been itself if, at the last minute, some ridiculous lunar upload had not appeared in the health bill. And she showed up. Under the cover of the night, there was a full-page amendment concerning the execution of the order of the President of the Council of Ministers to conduct the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence. Unfortunately, the government side has not been able to defend its position in a way that is consistent with the common principles of logical thinking. Despite the language equilybristics, the Sejm Analysis Office did not enthusiastically approach this amendment either. Initially, I encouraged my colleagues at the Left Club to support this project (the bell) but the solutions here do not allow me to maintain this position. Unfortunately, all the serious shortcomings mentioned above have made the Left's hands die before they turn towards the green button. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u279	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u280	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the governmental draft law amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID. Indeed, the project initially had such a task, and on the basis of its assumptions that 16 laws having a direct or indirect link with the health system had to be amended, it had to improve its functioning. Maybe even this name is too noisy if we look at the issues that were regulated there, but undoubtedly the changes that are intended to concern medical education, health IT, including funding, increased competence for the Centre for Health Information Systems, procedural facilitations for professional authorities and many other matters, of course, are needed and need to be done. There are, of course, a number of issues on which both social, professional and MEPs themselves have had a great deal of comments, but on this. What's the most important thing? It turned out that this complex and multi-directional document, which has been presented to us, is really a smokescreen of the real intentions of the people who submitted this project. Today, as you can see on the palm of your hand, it turns out that the government, under the pretext of Coronavirus, wants to do a lot of things, especially those that didn't work out for him during the epidemic this spring. But let's start by proceding. The number of pages presented to us was smaller than the number of pages of amendments that systematically came in. The later, after each break, the greater the caliber of the correction. And that's the first thing. Not to mention that the content of some amendments concerned a law that does not exist, which is still in the legislative process, which the President has not signed or which for other reasons is not functioning in the current legal state. But it's nothing compared to the flowers that came along. The most discussions were raised by the article. 16a, i.e. an amendment on the entities which carried out the orders of the President of the Council of Ministers in connection with the holding of elections which did not take place. These entities today have the right to request a one-off compensation for the costs they incurred. This record is indeed outrageous. This solution aims to legitimise the violation of public finances by members of the government, including certainly by your Deputy Prime Minister Sasin. It's a classic example of law enforcement that's supposed to work backwards. After all, the events that have taken place today have already taken place in the form of an amendment. I believe that this project is a clear attempt to sanction lawlessness. I think this is a very complicated way for law and justice representatives. After all, he was elected President Andrzej Duda for his second term. After all, he could have pardoned this case calmly. That's what you've tested, not who you've pardoned. The second thing is so-called. Pionization of the National Health Fund, which marks the next stage of centralization of the country, this time on the example of the National Health Fund, which according to your electoral promises should be eliminated at all. From what I remember, it was your only prescription for healing the health system. On the other hand, what substantive, practical goals for patients and the health system have this most extensive amendment, it is not really known. If you really want to improve the functioning of the health system in these cases, it is best to start with the finances of the county hospitals, relieve the founding authorities of the need to cover losses in the past year, eliminate the queues. Speaking of which, maybe one of the government members has been trying to call the doctor's clinic lately? I recommend it, I recommend it. I think even the Russian youtubers would rather call President Duda because they went there faster than the doctor's clinic. [[Applause]] You could have settled over-executives, queues to specialists, specializations, residences. That's not what you're doing at all. In general, this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] it would require a lot of amendments, among others. those that are signaled by the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, concerning commercial mobile applications, the checks you want to carry out on a mobile basis without showing your ID. There's a lot of improvements I could use here. In fact, we, in your style, can only propose one amendment - that this entity who suffered losses in connection with the Prime Minister's orders to carry out the election work that did not take place, issue the bill of the Party of Law and Justice. Because you're basically the ones who decided this election isn't gonna happen. If you want to pay your bills for your mistakes, it's certainly not at the expense of the citizens. Pay with your own money. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! God bless you! President Winnicki's buddy is gonna be on this piece of shit project for a while. Wait, this is gonna be really fun. I'm not gonna refer to this meatball because that's another one of those... It is true that you are going to record how many laws can be amended by amending the law, which layer of patches can be sewn up, glued, welded to the defective system of this legal system, which, contrary to the noisy assurances about changes, you are actually supporting and cultivating. I come to the point: here is a pandemic, a pandemic, and under its pretext you do such things, and the fact itself is questioned by the world of science today. I've already been to that bleacher with a book called "False Pandemic." The criticism of scientists and doctors, I stress: scientists and doctors, not MEPs and storytellers, only scientists and doctors. There was no Minister back then. So now I'm going to recommend this reading, and I hope it's not for long winter evenings that the Minister would like to do his homework first. I'll also leave your Marshal's book to keep it from being lost. Thank you. Thank you very much. Let the first and second people in the country finally stop spreading the coronation, maintaining pandemic psychosis. What does it do? Ladies and gentlemen, one example. Just so it's not that it's fake news, this is an example from TVP Dezinfo, from the official publication of the regime television. An older woman died in one of the Podlasie hospitals. Before she died, she was in contact with a coronavirus patient, but the test came back negative. The body was taken by family. When the coffin was open, the doctor called and ordered the coffin to be closed. All the mourners have been quarantined. This is, ladies and gentlemen... Once again, all the mourners have been quarantined. Mr President, I have not yet shared this information, and this is your district, so in your hands... This is what you've led to, and this is a crime. Hopefully we'll see you guys in jail, and we'll see you in front of the State Court. I hope that the Minister could act as a repentant witness to this matter, which would open up hopes for a better future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u283	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the legislative issue of this law, I will focus on one article. Minister, Mr President, honourable committee, I have no idea how this article could have come into being, how such an amendment could have entered this law. We have page 76, Art. 13a, which refers to the Act of 14 February 2020 amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. Dziennik Set, position, three dots. Why three dots? Because there's no number in the Official Journal. There's no law. Because the president hasn't signed it yet. You made an amendment that refers to a non-existent law, because this law was passed by the Sejm, went to the Senate and was not re-examined by the Sejm. There is no such law in the Polish legal system, ladies and gentlemen. There isn't. There isn't. You're making an amendment, you're putting it on the agenda, you're flipping legislation, you're flipping the constitution. I don't know what's next. Whether in the next version of a shield, in the law designed on Nowogrodzka or potentially imaginary will appear, will enter... Well, ladies and gentlemen, how hard this is absurd when it comes to legislation, when it comes to introducing more shields. And he comes to his finale, he has his finale in that you want, I don't know what to do, to top up sugar tax under non-existent law. This is the sugar tax, the essence is the sugar tax in this amendment of the non-existent law of 14 February in the article. 13a on p. 76. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a granda. You want to destroy the Polish industry [[♪ The bell ♪]] food lawlessness. Come to your senses, because what you're really doing with the Sejm, with legislation, with common sense, with logic, it's some kind of horror movie. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u285	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u286	Complicated law - the rapporteur said about the proposal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is certainly not complicated when it comes to the late-night amendment, a drop in which the PiS throws a rescue wheel to Deputy Prime Minister Sasin and tries to legalize 70 million zlotys spent on useless electoral packages that were supposed to be used in envelope pseudo-elections, which ultimately did not take place, but which had nothing to do with elections, and certainly had nothing to do with constitutionality, because in this case the PiS was to replace the State Election Commission. First, millions of money, public money, you throw it in the mud, and then you're looking for a solution to avoid criminal liability. But you're not gonna make it. All of this will not protect Minister Sasin from criminal responsibility. Neither the nightly amendment, nor the fact that you're absent from the gym [[♪ The bell ♪]] Proceding this project, or voting remotely, away from the eyes of the citizens, will not protect you first of all from settlement, because it is wasted public, large money, and they do not come, dear country, dear PiS-e, from your pockets. [[Applause]] First, account for yourself in front of the public with 250 billion zlotys of VAT, that's what you're looking at. Louder, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u287	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u288	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, every day in Poland, people in the world get sick and die because of Coronavirus. Every day companies lose their income and employees lose their jobs. And let's face it, the state has been acting so far that it has tried to help those companies that haven't been able to cope with the pandemic. And now it turns out that you have to help companies because of the government's carelessness and that they make the wrong decisions. A minimum of decency would suggest that if you want to use an asshole, quoting my colleague, Mr. Sasin, at least you shouldn't do it when you talk about doing anything good in health care. On the other hand, you rhyme, in violation of all the rules of law-making, into a law that concerns health, have imposed a rule on how to finance Mr. Sasina's packages, sasinalia. In general, you are the champions of creating a problem (the bell), incurring a debt, and then paying it out of public money. It's really a shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You spent 70 million PLN without legal basis. You printed illegal electoral packages because you can't just print electoral packages in Poland without any legal basis. But today came the hardest moment, because you have to pay the bill, which was issued to Poczta Polska, an institution which does not have 70 million PLN to pay this bill. You're like a man who's taking eternal credit for a pole. But not only what you tried to do a few months ago is disgraceful. There's also a disgraceful way, the way you're trying to solve it right now. After 12 hours of work in the Health Committee, where we talked about the health and life of citizens who should be rescued under the COVID-19 epidemic, you made an amendment that had nothing to do with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That bill. It is not enough that you have tabled an amendment that is to charge the PKW, the State Election Commission, with these elections. She had absolutely nothing to do with it, because she was really pulled away from them. Minister! Well, a little decency. You'll pay for your sins anyway. [[Applause]] You're unbelievable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We must ask the basic question: Where is Minister Szumowski? We are talking about a medical fund - there is no Minister Szumowski. Why should it be? We are discussing how health care will function after the pandemic - there is no Minister Szumowski. Mr. Vice Minister Cieszyński! Is Minister Szumowski packing because we haven't seen him in a while? Or is it, Mr. Vice Minister, that Minister Szumowski counts those ventilators that were ordered in mid-April and didn't arrive? Over $1,000. The ventilators didn't make it. But most importantly, she didn't make it, she didn't go back to the health department's prepayment account. Still over PLN 70 million has not returned to the Ministry's accounts. You used this bill as a legislative dumpster. You put the issues of Sasin's envelopes and electoral packages in there, you threw them in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] even the date of entry into force of the sugar tax. When are you finally going to deal with Polish patients, not your problems, the problems you've been creating yourself over the last three months? Also the purchases you do, which are non-transparent, non-economic and for which you will one day be responsible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u293	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This project has a bad name. This project should be called a soft government landing, because on the pretext of fighting a coronavirus, you put records that were nothing to do with an epidemic like legitimizing... Because there's no epidemic. There's no epidemic? There's an epidemic, sir. Like legitimizing the actions of Minister Sasin and Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just a scandal. What do the ministry and the government do? Instead of creating laws that save the health and lives of citizens, enabling the creation of a cure for Coronavirus from the plasma of the healers, you take care of yourselves. Minister! When will there be laws that save the health and life of the health and the disease sufferers? Stop taking care of yourselves. It's just a scandal... Healers? Do you know what you said? ...that the government wants to save [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm on my own. Not patients, not citizens. He's only fighting for his own business, legitimizing his earlier decisions with the current law that he wants to create under the cover of the night. [[Applause]] Saving the lives of the healers? Think about what a healer means.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u295	Thank you very much. Please, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment maintains the suspension of the obligation of hospitals and clinics to provide information on their reception schedules. After all, since the beginning of the pandemic, patients have had a huge problem with appointments. Phones are not received, registration windows are closed or registrations are working less. In fact, it's easier to call the president than the clinic. An informant on treatment dates would help patients waiting for pending treatments and surgeries to find an entity that would take them faster. Who, then, is not doing well? Hospitals? Or maybe it's just that there are no scheduled procedures for the NFZ to save and suspend funding for these procedures. Similarly, it is proposed to suspend the possibility for patients to make their own appointments for the provision of ICT systems. It's absurd. In times of pandemics, the Internet should be a basic form of dating patients for a visit. It does not require day-to-day care from hospitals or clinics, allows patients to stay safe at home and saves them time. Is the government after the failure of the e-teaching system [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's afraid of getting blabbed again in the health care system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u297	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is very bad - actually it's bullshit. There should be a lot of talk about all the mistakes you've made in the regulations you've made. The NFZ does not change in such a way, there are no regulations on the competence of midwives and nurses, regardless of the opinion of the local government representing these professions, and finally it is not so easy to introduce rules which make data that should be protected possible to get into the hands of various corporations at once. Whose business are you representing? 'Cause I don't think it's patients. Finally, the PiS-owska classic. After many hours of work of the committee, there is an amendment concerning PLN 70 million issued illegally by Minister Sasin. Instead of going to hospitals and patients, this 70 million PLN will serve legalization of lawlessness. It's kind of like you're trying to hand over the bill (the bell) e.g. The bank's stolen money so the thief doesn't go to jail. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u299	Please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to quote point 3 of the amendment tabled by Law and Justice to this Act: Where an entity has reasonably incurred costs in excess of the market value of the fixed assets purchased or other expenses incurred which may be used in the entity's current activities, compensation shall cover the difference between the reasonable cost and the market value of the components purchased. Of course, in connection with the so-called. The choices, the envelope ones. My question is whether, therefore, the mail bags purchased for election purposes will be accounted for at the market price of 70 gr or at the price at which they were purchased - 116,85 Evil? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u301	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law that, as you said, changes 16 more laws. When we get to the end of the year, I think we're going to have all the laws changed in one COVID act. Get to the point. I would like to ask if the cards printed for PLN 70 million could not be used in the Seym, the other side, to print documents, [[Applause]] Even though it wouldn't have been wasted instead of grinding it? Or maybe we should put them in schools or kindergartens to paint the other side. And let's sign it: Minister Sasin's donation, let's call it that. But to the point, to this bill. I would like to hear the answer from the Minister, how this announced reform of the NFZ will affect this and make us get to the doctor faster so that there are shorter queues and that medical services are cheaper. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u303	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, we are investigating an extremely important bill that has, at least in its assumptions, to counteract the paralysis of health care during the pandemic. Given her records, it's worth asking how the government wants to make sure that the scandals, like the one connected with the respirators bought from the arms dealer, never happened again. Will it be possible to complement the tasks of the Minister of Health with the possibility of taking action to ensure access to health care services, including giving instructions to the Fund, resulting in full legalisation of even the most bizarre controversial ideas related to the public spending by Minister Szumowski? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u305	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u306	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Do you know how many masks, how many ventilators can be bought for 70 million PLN? Just not those ventilators that Minister Szumowski bought, and not those masks from the ski instructor, but how many personal protective equipment, how many medical equipment can you buy for 70 million PLN? Because at a time when hospitals were asking for these measures, when there was an enormous percentage of infection among health professionals, Minister Sasin organized a plebiscite for himself, we do not actually know for whom he was commissioned until today. We can guess that. He was printing election cards for the May pseudo-elections. And we no longer have a loss of PLN 70 million, but now we have to compensate the post office, so we have PLN 140 million that we will drown in this business of Minister Sasin. You're going over yourself: you're applying for a health care aid bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for his own minister. I hope the health workers will listen to this discussion and see what kind of cynics and hypocrites you are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Things that should not be included in this bill were said by many of my predecessors, and I will say the opposite. The law that we are investigating is a natural place, a moment to improve the legal rubble that has taken place - from similar mechanisms that we are discussing - when adopting the anti-crisis law 4.0. We know how the Ministry of Justice increases the oppression of the law as much as it can. The strengthening of the article was then introduced. 37a in the Penal Code. Of course, because I know that the Minister will explain, it doesn't apply to doctors, but there's everything: common criminals, along with doctors, nurses, paramedics - they can have much more severe punishment for unintentional mistakes. The caselaw will change: the priority of the penalty [[♪ The bell ♪]] Liberty for imprisonment, for more frequent deprivation of the right to pursue the profession. This will cause - from the point of view of patients' interests this is a fatal solution - that doctors will become conservative, avoid dangerous treatments and even diagnostics, fearing that they will be responsible for an unintentional mistake just like the man who made... Thank you very much. ...a robbery involving firearms. This needs to be changed and re-enacted as it was before shield four, and these matters need to be dealt with calmly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u310	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the psychic amendment tabled and voted by the PiS yesterday in the Health Committee, which states that the parties who followed the Prime Minister's order to counter COVID-19 may request a one-off compensation from the head of the National Election Office. This amendment is against the law, because although the Prime Minister may issue an order, but on the basis of the law, and this law was not, because the law on the envelope elections of 10 May which did not take place entered into force on 8 May. So I ask: Is the Prime Minister prepared to pay the compensation costs for the Polish Post, which he has put at large costs, because he gave her an order against the law? Is the introduction of legislation amending the law backwards to cover the errors and abuses of the rulers, which is contrary to the rule of law (the bell) - and not, as the Prime Minister says, so-called. The rule of law - is it now to be the main principle of PiS legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u311	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft provides that operators importing medicinal products and foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes from abroad which are necessary to save life and health will be required to make a declaration that imported products will be placed on the market and used under the responsibility of the demander. The amendment also abolishes the obligation to inform the chief health inspector thereof. So I want to ask who will guarantee that the measures taken by Poles will be safe. Why does the government shirk responsibility for the safety of Poles and Poles and wash its hands of this? Is it possible that the resulting vaccine in the world will be imported by means of intermediaries without any State control? The vaccine isn't here yet. What are you... I will remind you that the medical equipment imported from China was also imported with the help of intermediaries and ended with the fact that it did not have certificates. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] You know the vaccine isn't here yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u313	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u314	Minister! I have two questions because I'd like to remind you of two things again. First of all, how did the sugar tax, on the basis of the law that was not approved by the Sejm, return to this law? It is a legal puriazum, which is not really found in legislation in Poland or in countries that consider themselves to be civilized. And the second thing, very important. How is it that in Poland, under the appearance of an epidemic, really leads to the implementation of actions that will accelerate the emigration of doctors, especially young doctors, from our country? Why are medical error laws tightening up? Why are the laws tightening up, which will cause doctors to be afraid to take responsibility and make decisions that save lives? That's the truth. The medical community is outraged, preparing protests. Really, what are you doing? What are you doing? [[Applause]] Do you know what strict rules on liability are in the West? What are you saying? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u315	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u316	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have three questions. [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I have a moment, please? Please, my fellow Member, for peace. I have three questions, Minister, for you. First. What further steps do the Ministry of Health envisage towards the National Health Fund? Next question. If you assume that the National Health Fund is unnecessary - perhaps it is right, as it was said before - then when are you going to start a discussion on the shape of health protection in Poland and in which direction will this be going? And the third question, which is very mundane, but quite important, I think, mostly for hospitals. Is it true that on the basis of this law, a paper version of medical records can be removed if digitized, and therefore there will actually be more room in archives that are clogged? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u317	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u318	I am not surprised at the small activity of your Members from the PIS, because your Members from the PIS have clarified everything. You are sanctioning the 70 million so that the Prime Minister and Minister - Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, do not answer so that the President of the Polish Post does not answer. But I would like to tell you, as we are in the Chamber today, that you have one more command, also without a legal basis... You're saying the Minister of Health will order the president of the National Health Fund. And now we're surprised because you're remodeling the entire National Health Fund and assigning the job to the CEO. Therefore, any agreement, if the Director of the branch is not authorised, will be concentrated in the hands of the President. So every employee in every department will come for a contract with the president. I wanted to ask you if you're getting ready for this kind of centralization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you would eliminate the National Health Fund, subject its actions to the voivodships, and where the money would come from. Because you're still trying to throw in a medical fund, take the money from a national fund, because there's no extra money coming in... So you're tampering with what health care will look like. Thank you. And that's where you need serious discussion, not the kind of stuff you're doing today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u319	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Attention, Polish taxpayers. We're out of campaign, we're out of hand, we're out of hand. The bill brought to the Sejm by the Minister from bad ventilators, masks and something else, which we may find out about, not only destroys the health system, not only steals 70 million PLN from the Polish taxpayer's pocket for Sasin's actions, but also takes 2 billion PLN out of taxpayers' pockets for so-called. sugar tax. That's not even the worst part. Mr Winnicki mentioned this. Minister Cieszyński! Hello, this is Earth. What are you doing? You're updating a law that doesn't exist? After all, this bill was rejected by the Senate, this law never returned to the Sejm. In the election campaign you did not talk about the 200 billion PLN deficit, nor about the new taxes that you will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Apply at an alarming rate. And today suddenly you came to the Seym? Is it so bad that you couldn't wait two weeks for the Seym to take this bill back with your hands? At one meeting of the Sejm, you assassinated state finances, attention, through the Posted Workers Act, [[Applause]] And now, by means of a law, what it is supposed to strengthen the health system, you are destroying the legislative system, probably for the hundredth time. But amending a law that doesn't exist, even for PiS lawlessness, I think there's a feat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u321	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law which I am showing, according to the facts, should be called the settlement of elections, dismissals in public administration in Poland and the amendment of non-existent laws and health protection. Should this be the case, Minister, with the health bill? Well, I am a member of the Health Committee, and I have been a member of the most political committee in Poland by mistake. [[Applause]] Yeah, that's right. Because should the Committee on Health address the issue of election settlement? [[Applause]] Your marshal, I want to work on the Health Committee, not on the political committee that's in charge of the election settlement. I don't want that. My constituents didn't put me there. Mr Morawiecki did not receive a delegation from the High Sejm to organise elections. On the other hand, the Prime Minister should hear from those who have addressed this amendment to the Sejm, because it says here that the Prime Minister has received such an order. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now it seems to us that we are obliged to settle the Prime Minister's account. That's not gonna happen. One last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, firing workers in public administration has already been done. They shouldn't be in this bill. The Ministry of Health should not be involved in recording in the Act: imposing an obligation to reduce employment in public administration units. It's deeply wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus cannot be an excuse to spoil the state. Why can't he? He can do anything. We talked not so long ago about the fact that within three months we passed three laws that dealt with COVID. In each of these laws 70% or 90% it did not concern Coronavirus, it concerned other legal provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the future. This is ruining the country. We said from the beginning: one good COVID law had to be done, but we also said and repeat: do not introduce under the cloak of COVID, under the cloak of a coritos task that has nothing to do with it. I will repeat once again: this in the long term will be very unfavorable, not just for this Sejm. Because these are two completely different worlds: on the one hand [[♪ The bell ♪]] The state in theory tells you what you want to do, on the other hand, practice shows you're doing something completely different. This can't be right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u325	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On the first line of the fight against COVID-19 there was a health resort. Well, from my experience as a Member who went through the whole disease: from infection to plasma donation, it appears that district sanitary and epidemiological stations are not prepared to do all their job well in such a way, with such a scale of disease and infection. In this connection, I have a question: whether, in the context of this discussion, which is taking place around the COVID, and the legislative work, the government is currently working on solutions that would meet the needs of the health department and would somehow strengthen this service, which is now very serious. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the fight against pandemics? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u328	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art first, of course. 16a. You could start with the fact that once in the blocks, in the stairwells, there were such signs that the broken windows were responsible for the children and the parents paid. In general, this 70 million PLN should be paid by the Law and Justice, taking into account this beautiful principle, [[Applause]] Because no one ordered the election to be organized, no one ordered the voting cards to be printed for 70 million, but it was the will of the Law and Justice. So, from the party cash register, I'd like you to make a deposit and pay for it. In the meantime, today these regulations are exempt from responsibility. No wonder the Ministry of Health is pushing it. What could be done for 70 million PLN of Prime Minister Morawiecki? E.g. 600,000. hours of psychological assistance, 0.5 million visits to specialists - such things the state just aired today, which is absolutely outrageous. Second thing: Art. 13a, hitting entrepreneurs. As a matter of fact, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the Minister is the face of this strike. 3 billion PLN you want to extract from Polish companies, small, medium-sized companies that produce juices, from farmers, from fruit farmers who grow and supply raw materials. This is your impact on the Polish juice industry - it is scandalous. Minister, get out of these ideas. [[Applause]] Mr President, your party has not yet settled with you. There were two billion recently.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u329	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u330	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government has undertaken to write a bill to support the functioning of health care in Poland. There's been a bill to support Sasina's security. But let's skip the sad fact. I would like to ask the representative of the Minister of Health, Deputy Minister Cieszyński, if you are working on a real reform, on structural and systemic changes, which are intended to strengthen the finances of Polish hospitals, which are to ensure better availability of stationary medicine and specialists, which are to change the picture of health protection in this country. Are you working on these things, or are you just keeping up with things that are inconvenient for you today that you need to straighten out that are interfering with your government? After all, we all know that every Pole is waiting for one of the most needed reforms in Poland: the reform of the health system. You've been in charge for five years. Have you started doing anything in this direction? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u331	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law proposes the creation of an application that will inform patients about the issue of a prescription, possibly referral, in electronic form. At the time of this proposal, Minister, a number of doubts arose, particularly from pharmacists. These doubts concerned issues relating to personal data, the protection of personal data. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the question whether this law and the provisions which are in the Act guarantee the security of personal data processed in connection with the creation of such an application. Will this data be safe? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are all these concerns that the pharmacists, as well as other environments, addressed to the Ministry, unfounded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u333	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A single name hospital was established in Łomża on 14 March 2020. On 15 March, a person acting as Director resigns from his duties, is on a merry-go-round to fill the Director in that hospital and on Monday 16 March is appointed as Director. Everyone's wondering what kind of marshal appointed this director. It turns out that four months later, an article appears. 8, the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities is amended as follows: 46 after paragraph. The following paragraph shall be added: 3a as follows: In the event of an appeal by the head of a medicinal entity that is not an entrepreneur or otherwise, the head of a medicinal entity that is not an entrepreneur shall be appointed by the formation agent to act as one manager. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from his deputies or from another employee. So you're only trying to sanction another thing after four months. Is that normal in the state of law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u335	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We talk about health safety, we talk about how we should model the Polish healthcare system so that, above all, patients are better. But today, I'm talking about the government, I'm talking about Law and Justice, you're making a breakthrough. Well, you take the competences of the NFZ at the voivodeship level, you translate them into national competences, that is, you take your competences, to give them to those upstairs who are going to dedicate or decide on money. Where's the logic here, Minister? Where is there to think about reforming this system? 14 billion PLN of debt of local governments, which have debts in their hospitals - 14 billion PLN. You said in 2015: we'll extend it. Did you guys put it off? Where's the money dedicated to hospitals so they can get out of these debts? Since 2015, driving up, only long in plus. Minister! Instead of cosmetics, system changes. That's what the Left Club expects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There'll be manual control.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u337	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First question: What epidemic, since 1,200 people were dying a year ago, and now 1100 are dying, of which 10 are dying of coronavirus? Funeral establishments are bankrupt because they bought coffins for backup when they heard about the epidemic. Ha, ha, ha! Second, what right do you have to accuse the PiS that the election wasn't on May 10th? It was you who came out of your skin so that the election wouldn't be on May 10th. You're responsible for this, not the PiS. Let's be clear about this. [[Applause]] Thirdly, I ask the government: How can such laws be put forward? I sit on this committee remotely and read: every second point of the bill, it is not known whether the President will sign this bill or not. You can't wait a day or two for the president to sign or not to postpone this bill for two days, but you had to sit on this case? And besides, you're based on a law that doesn't exist at all. It's called law and justice? You are the ones who are destroying the law in Poland. You. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u339	Thank you very much. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Janusz Cieszyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u340	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, I'm starting with you: the president signed this bill. Great. And that was the committee meeting you could do. Today, not yesterday. It is worth pointing out that the project which has been submitted, the government submission, This project should not be created. It's not compatible. Good. Mr Gawkowski said that we are taking competence from the voivodships of the National Health Fund. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. These competences will still be in the wards where they are closest to the people where they are closest to the patients. On the other hand, the idea is that these procedures should be the same everywhere and that their application should be the same, because we all know that it is not only about uniform rules but also about uniform case law and uniform application. Mrs April asked about data security in the application. The same question was also asked by Mr Rutka, who tabled the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the committee meeting, there was a representative of the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber, and since there were these doubts, in our view not entirely justified, we introduced appropriate changes, which made it even more clear that there is no doubt as to what the purpose of the processing of these data must be, and consequently anyone who would break this objective or use it for another purpose would be liable and the penalty, in accordance with Article. 107 The Personal Data Protection Act in this case, ladies and gentlemen, is up to 3 years of imprisonment. Mr Klimczak asked if we were working on improving accessibility, whether we were working on improving access for Poles to the health system. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last 2 months, we have a 3-percent increase in basic hospital security, plus a 3-percent supplement for all entities: for hospitals, for clinics, for clinics, for clinics, for all entities, so that after the epidemic they can return to normal functioning. PLN 1 billion allocated under the National Health Fund for benefits and other things related to the fight against the coronavirus. All this money has gone into the system in recent months and it shows that we see these problems and we solve them on an ongoing basis. Mr Suchoń talked about hitting the juice industry. Dear Member, 100 per cent of fruit juices are not covered by this fee. Read it. But drinks, drinks. We know what we're talking about. Mr Sulphura asked about strengthening the health inspection. This reinforcement, honourable Member, has been implemented since the beginning of this year, when the inspections have been verticalised. We can already see that this brings positive results. Of course, as with any such numerous institution, 16 thousand. employees, it takes a while. Now we have had an epidemic, so it was not the time for structural reforms, but certainly things are going in the right direction. Special additional resources to support inspection efforts have been allocated from the anti-COVID-19 funds. Mr Szopiński goes back to the subject of dismissals. Dear fellow Member, I explained this yesterday at the committee meeting. In order to dispel these doubts that you pointed out today by the Law and Justice Club, an appropriate amendment has been tabled so as to clearly cut through, dispel these doubts and point out that the intention has been pure from the beginning. The idea is that, as part of these solutions, which are already foreseen in the shield, it should be possible to cut off those jobs that are not filled, which is precisely not to fire anyone, but to reduce expenditure by eliminating uninsured posts. Uninstalled. Mrs... Yes, sir. Increase by reducing, because that's what you're doing. You cut all the money you can in the health care system. And rightfully, some things... And the VAT mobs, which you failed. Wherever you can, you can save it, but not on health care. Mrs Skowrońska says that there is a need for serious discussion, and then she talks about the fact that there will be orders from the Minister of Health to the National Health Fund. But we talked about it in the committee yesterday, and we explained to you that there is no such thing in these changes, there is nothing in the report, so why the fake news? Well, that's right. This really has nothing to do with serious discussion. [[Speaking of 70 million, maybe you'll answer, Minister. That's what we're waiting for. 70 million]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I take a little longer? Because I have a lot of questions. You're welcome, but yes, two minutes, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Okay, two minutes. You are asking for 70 million, but your colleague, Mrs Gajewska, said that if there is compensation... She made a mistake. ...70 million, that's a total of 140 million. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent demonstration of how much merology is here. To the point, really. Ladies and gentlemen! You are talking about specific amounts, but look at these provisions. It is clear there that these amounts will be determined on the basis of the calculations of experts from the Electronic Communications Office. There's no arbitrariness here. So how much? How much? There's a clear statement as to how... How much is this scam? I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: ...and from which budget item expenditure related to the organisation of elections will be financed. And which one? From the National Election Office, which is responsible for organising these elections. I won't be able to answer all the questions, but I wanted to answer one more thing. Sugar bill. Mr Winnicki said that this law is not in place. Mr President, you voted against. This is the February 14th bill, and you invoked it yourself. But where is he? What's his number? Coming back, ladies and gentlemen, this is the implementation of these requests which were made during the legislative process. As there was an epidemic, other cases were referred to the Sejm. You're flirting with the minister. This project has returned from the Senate to the Sejm. Work on it can be resumed when a new date for entry into force is set and will be postponed to 1 January next year. On the other hand, the last question I wanted to answer. Yes, please, because these two minutes are running out, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Yes. You're kidding me. You can't call a doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, talk about this precisely with primary healthcare doctors, who during the epidemic have more than 80% They've just given advice from a distance. Talk about it with their patients, who in the survey we conducted, show that the level of satisfaction is over 80%. That's a good result. This is the result that proves that these teleports and all the e-health about which there is also a lot written in this bill, during this epidemic passed the exam. Thank you. [[Applause]] Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u341	I'd ask you to keep the order on the corrigendum. The first Mr Jan Szopiński. Time - 30 seconds. Very briefly, because we have to at an hour. Eighteen to finish, and then...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u342	Dear Minister, Well, I perfectly distinguish two terms. Another is the determination to impose a reduction in employment and another is the liquidation of vacant posts. And in view of this, just as I thought yesterday lawyers from the law office of the Sejm who shared my doubts. Therefore, do not mislead the public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u343	Thank you very much. Please, in the procedure of correcting Ms Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are talking about 70 million zlotys, because this is how the envelope elections were calculated. The applicant Member State has not informed what the outcome of this solution will be, and you have been skilfully trying to lurch all the time, without answering my questions and any other Members who have asked about the final elections, about the spending of PLN 70 million. And it is a shame that the Minister of Health tried to grab someone else's words without answering the Members' bell to questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u345	Thank you very much. And the final corrigendum, Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Okay, let's do it again. Minister, in order for the law to function in the Polish legal order, it must be voted by the Sejm, then by the Senate, then by the President. The Senate rejected it, the Sejm didn't consider the Senate rejection, the president didn't sign it. There's no bill. You have tabled an amendment to a non-existent law, to a law which is no longer in the Polish legal order, because it was to enter into force on 1 July, on 1 July that date has passed. This law no longer exists in the Polish legal order. If you want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna have to reinvent that stupid tax. You're gonna have to reattach it. Come on, get your shit together. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u347	Mr Piech, please, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u348	Thank you very much. However, I wanted to thank all the committee members for yesterday's work. Until 3 p.m. 24 o'clock. Despite great emotions, however, we have introduced quite a good legislative proposal. This project gives us a chance to sort out some of the things that surprised us in this epidemic. We have provided training specialists, we have provided services that will continue to test, we have procedures to prepare those who will swab because this requires an army of people. These procedures are. I am very sorry that the only subject of today's discussion is Art. 16a. Sugar tax. Thank you so much for the discussion. I think we'll meet tomorrow and discuss amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u349	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of parts of Orava and Spiš to independent Poland (prints no. 412 and 496). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present to you a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of Orava and Spiš to independent Poland, print no. 412. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading on 5 June 2020. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading, considers this draft resolution at its meeting on 21 July 2020, in accordance with very good cooperation, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. Is it necessary for me to read it? No, of course not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u351	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Edward Sulphur, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, as an applicant for the draft resolution and Oravian, I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice regarding the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of parts of Orava and Spiš to independent Poland. During these days we return to the resolution of the Council of Ambassadors at the conference in Spa on 28 July 1920. It was at this conference that it was decided about the shape of the Polish border at its southern borders, forgotten limits. Before this decision, it was preceded by the effort and suffering of many generations to defend Polishness, religion and language, the culture of the region of Spiš and Orava. It was on the basis of this work, patriotism and national awareness that the inhabitants of Orava and Spiša established Polish national councils with a demand to join these areas to Poland in November 1918. How deep it was necessary to have a sense of Polishness and great faith to stand on the side of the Polish state, which fought for survival in the years 1918 and 1920. Only the Oravaans and Spiš could come up with an idea to go to Paris and pursue a meeting with the President of the United States. In April 1919, the Oravian delegation composed of Fr. Ferdinand Machay, Wojciech Halczyn and Piotr Borowy, explained to Wilson why the Oravaans wanted to be with Poland. All the brave actions of the heroes of independence in Spiš and Orava have found recognition of the authorities of the Second Republic, because they have been awarded crosses and medals of independence. Only thanks to hard work, deep faith, determination, courage and stubbornness in the pursuit of the goal of the Podhale, Orava and conspiracy mountains was the Polishness of the southern ends of Poland protected. Today, the Sejm of free and independent Poland pays tribute to all those famous and yet unknown heroes who offered their sacrifice for Poland and led to the integration of parts of the lands of Spiš and Orava into the Republic of Poland. I trust as a Member of these lands, aware of his promotion, at the source of which is the effort of many generations, that the example of fathers will shape future generations of faithful Polish Oravaians and Spišsaks. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present its position on the resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of parts of Orava and Spiš to independent Poland. High Izbo! On 28 July 1920, or almost 100 years ago, the Council of Ambassadors appointed a border whereby 14 conspiracy villages and 12 villages in Upper Orava were joined to Poland. In this way the dispute that took place after World War I, the dispute about the affiliation of Orava and Spisz between Poland and the then Czechoslovakia was concluded. Today, on the 100th anniversary of these events, the return of parts of Orava and Spiš to Poland, it is worth to emphasize the huge contribution of the inhabitants of these historical regions to the cultural heritage of Poland, and especially Małopolska. This is of course the history of Polish patriotism, that is the history of maintaining Polishness, values that bind our homeland, despite many unfavorable circumstances. Over the years, I have personally been able to find out about this unique intangible heritage, but also about this, and it is worth saying what a region it is, what people live there, about this entrepreneurship, about the spirit of commitment. And that's the thing that, I think, is very important. But it, this intangible heritage, shows us all this great spirit of our ancestors living in these lands, tells their stories, but above all it is a great part of the great cultural heritage of the Republic of Poland. Today, on the 100th anniversary of the return to the independent Polish part of Orava and Spiš, this fact deserves to be honoured by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I fully support this draft resolution and also request that this draft be adopted by the acclamation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Whoever visits the castle in Niedzica walks through the dam on the Dunajec or around the Orava sea, climbs Babia Góra or walks along the national park trails or only on the European road E77, thinks mainly of the beauty of these surroundings. We go deeper into the history of this land, and it's worth it. It is worth noting, first of all, that we all came from somewhere and that people with different roots, ethnic and national backgrounds live everywhere in Poland. In Spiš and Orava this cultural mixture is very rich. The oldest traces of man come from the Stone Age and prove that the Neanderthals lived there. There were also traces of bronze, iron, Celtic and Roman cultures. The Slavs got there from the Vistula basin and the Balkans. In the 9th century, it was the Great Moravian area. In the 10th century and 11th century, probably Mieszko I and Bolesław Chrobry incorporated them into their country, but quickly lost them. After the devastations of the Tatars and the Mongols, another colonization took place. The Germans and the Italian settlers came. The peasant Polish population came from Sądecczyn, Żywiecczyn, the region of Oświęcim and Zebrzydowice. The peasants fled the Polish lands, were attracted by benefits in rents and periods of freedom. Nor did Spiš and Orava miss religious fights between Catholics and Protestants. For centuries, the highlanders have been marauded or Slovak. Often, working on fertile lands, they completely lost ties with the land of their ancestors. In the era of the formation of national states after the end of World War I, after the fall of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the creation of Czechoslovakia and the Polish state in Spiš and Orava began a dispute over the borders between the newly established countries. Polish activists of the nation soon appeared. At the initiative of Kazimierz Przekwa-Tetmajer, a conspiracy-oravian committee was established and followed by another one. Andrzej Kucharski, a philologist and ethnographician, was the first to point out the presence of still living Polish language in these areas. Poles conducted diplomatic activities, planned plebiscite, but unfortunately both sides began propaganda activities. There have been several political killings. Two Czechoslovakian officials were murdered, tragically one of the Polish national activists died. Finally, this ended with the agreement and the Krakow protocol. During World War II, these areas were incorporated into Fascist Slovakia. In 1945, the border returned to the line before 1938. History is worth learning, learning and celebrating anniversaries, but above all it is important to draw conclusions. We are different and respect each other. Preposterous propaganda is always tragic. It's wonderful that the Polish people were trying to... Thank you very much. ...for these lands to be attached to Poland, but when writing about joining the Great Catholic Poland, they were imprecise and indelicate... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much. You've run out of time. ...because neither today nor during the Second Republic of Poland was only Catholic. Fortunately, today we have the European Union...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u357	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party. Ma'am, madam, please leave the stand. You've run out of time. But it came out of the bag. If there's something critical, do you have to shut your mouth? You're welcome, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u358	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I apologize to those whom I now touch with my words, but let me read: The war has begun, old fleeces, and many countries have perished, as it were. Nasa down to Uhersko land also flew down to the rumps. The coffee was taken by the Croatians, the second Serbi, the third Romanians, the Scorty Cesi, and we Poles were taken by whom the houses were not built, for their own sake, this is the Polish people. You'll find out from this handwriting. First, we have to get away from our evil stepmother - from the unholy Uher land. Ladies and gentlemen! Those words were written by Fr. Ferdinand Machay in the brochure What will be with us? when there were huge disputes in these areas, in the south of Poland, in those places where it was not really known which way the border would cross. That's when these people, the inhabitants of these areas, e.g. Fr. Ferdinand Machay, Piotr Borowy and Wojciech Halczyn, went to France. They were heard by the President of the United States and made a decision - perhaps at their direction - to carry out the plebiscite. As it was later, ladies and gentlemen, we know. On July 10, a very difficult moment, a conference in Spa, the resignation of Prime Minister Grabski, later on July 28. But I think it's worth remembering these people today, those Poles who spoke highlander, Polish, Slovak at home... In Latin, I think. It's more like Latin in church. ...in schools in Hungarian. This has been a very difficult time, ladies and gentlemen. It seems to me that today this resolution best expresses gratitude to these Poles, patriots. Perhaps historians judge differently this time and this number of villages, which today are within the borders of the Republic of Poland. But they deserve the highest recognition for what they did, because they certainly lived in very difficult times at the ends of the Republic. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u359	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u360	God bless the Spiš and the Oravians! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With all due respect and great emotion, and with a fond memory of national heroes and activists who did everything to make the Lightest Republic available to all Poles, so that borders do not divide the Polish people, with all respect and honor due - a separate voice. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a cause for joy, a festival. It's more of a cause for reflection. Do we really want it to triumph in the world with such a principle that the presidents of the empires from the capitals on the other side of the globe and the ambassadors' council decide on the shape of the brightest Republic of Poland? Is that what we want? It was a beautiful action when Fr. Machay drove these volunteers to Paris to fight for a change in the contour of the Lightest Republic, but it was a bad triumph of the nationalist principle over the monarchy principle. Let us remember that Spiš and Orava belong to the Republic of Poland, but after the death of the Kingdom of Hungary. Again, it's a cause for reflection. [[Applause]] It's a cause for reflection. It's a sad moment, a moment we wouldn't want to repeat like that. This is the voice of a separate Crown. And now the National Movement - Mr. President Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u361	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of words came out today about the activists who led to the fact that these areas were Poles also fought. Very good. They fought the same way. in the Prussian partition, in Silesia, in Wielkopolska, in Mazury, in Pomerania, they fought to make sure that the Russian capture of a maximum amount of land, with the maximum number of Poles in the Republic of Poland. Yes, it is the natural desire of the Polish people: that Poles live in one country, so that they do not share the living tissue of the nation with the dead structures that survived, they will live to their end, Mr. These national organisms are living organisms, and other structures survive their period and simply become obsolete. Very good. Remember this also today. This resolution is not just a matter of historical memory. She obliges us to care [[♪ The bell ♪]] and fight for the rights of Poles in all lands historically occupied by the Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u363	Thank you very much. The question has been raised by the honourable Member. I'm closing the list of questions. Yet, Marshal, to the question. That's nice of you to sign up. But from now on, I'm closing my list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking this opportunity, I would like to say that it only makes sense to adopt such resolutions if the inhabitants concerned, Orava, appreciate this great jubilee of the century joining the part of Orava to Poland. At this point I would like to thank you very much for the beautiful celebration which was organized in Jabłonka, and for the fact that attachment to Orava and Poland still exists. It is not only that, because we all know that we are in the European Union, but nevertheless the tradition, the culture that is remembered - not only remembered but also cultivated - is our national identity, and in this case the identity of the Oravaans, as well as Poles. Thank you very much for your resolution and for this beautiful ceremony, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which was organized in Orava on this occasion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u365	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u366	I would like this to sound like the honourable authors of this resolution and everyone living this story, living Polish history in general. Let us agree that to whom we grant the right to give, this one may also take away. And that's what happened in this case. Faithful tributes made in Versailles and recognition of the de facto jurisdiction of foreign powers in our territory later echoed in history, not in Versailles, but in Tehran, Yalta, Potsdam. So I call for a moment of reflection at these anniversary celebrations. The ones who seem to have lost the crown of St. Stefan was an historic necessity, I suggest a moment of reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u367	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Labour Code (print No 463). I would like to ask Anna Gembicka to provide the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u368	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides for the protection of values associated with work. Such values include the principle of gender equality, among others. in economic life. Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution provides that men and women have equal rights to education, employment and promotion, equal pay for equal work and occupation, duties and public dignity. This principle is linked to the principle of inviolability and respect for human dignity. However, according to the study of the Central Statistical Office, according to the October 2018 data, the average salary of men was 19.9%. higher than average pay for women. This problem also exists in the consciousness of Poles. According to CBOS studies, as many as 68% of women and 53% of women Men participating in a study on the level of wages of men and women with the same level of education and working in the same position indicated that women earn less than men. In view of the conclusions of these studies, today I would like to present a draft amendment to the Labour Code extending the definition of mobbing to differentiate the level of remuneration based on the gender of the worker. The adoption of this solution will allow employees to obtain an additional tool in their claims against employers. The draft law will benefit employers from respecting the principle of equal treatment between men and women in terms of pay for equal work of equal value and thus improve the situation of women in the labour market. It will also have a positive impact on women's employment decisions. This will translate into greater protection for all workers regardless of gender, who will gain another tool to exercise their rights. This will even the odds so that the criteria for determining remuneration are knowledge, skills, experience, and not whether someone is a woman or a man. In view of the above, I ask the High House to take a positive look at this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u369	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the Republic of Poland on 28 November 1918, the interim head of state Józef Piłsudski issued a decree on electoral ordination to the Legislative Sejm, which defined the active electoral law, in art. 1 was: the voter to the Sejm is every citizen of the state without gender difference. In turn, the article. 7, describing the passive electoral right, was: all citizens, citizens of the state, who have active electoral rights, regardless of their place of residence, are elected to the Sejm. These short and unambiguous provisions, which today not only do not raise any controversy, but are quite obvious, were revolutionary 100 years ago. Suffice it to say that in the UK, women's passive electoral rights were recognised in 1928, women in France have participated in elections since 1944, in Italy since 1945 and in Switzerland since 1971. So our country was one of the world's first equalizing rights for men and women. As a woman, I'm proud of it. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I am proud that in my homeland, contrary to various slogans, we do not meet with any institutional discrimination, and even in our Polish culture women are in principle surrounded by respect. In the Polish legal system, there are also provisions expressing the broad principle of non-discrimination in employment based on sex, both regarding the conclusion and termination of employment relationships, as well as employment conditions, opportunities for promotion and access to training to improve professional qualifications. Equal treatment in employment is devoted to Chapter IIa in the Labour Code. Unfortunately, despite the existing regulations in Poland, as well as around the world, women working as much as men and having similar education and qualifications still earn less. In October 2018, the median wages in the Polish economy grew as fast as possible for a decade, and despite overall wage increases There's a gap between men and women. According to the Central Statistical Office, the average monthly salary in October 2018 amounted to a total gross of PLN 5003,78. However, the earnings of men were about 443,46 PLN, i.e. 8.9% , higher than the average salary and women - by 460.42 zł lower, i.e. by more than 9% lower than the average wage. This means that the average salary of men was almost 904 PLN in 2018, i.e. almost 20% higher than the average salary of women. But it's basically... According to some, under the influence of market competition, wage differences should not exist or should self-depleting, but this is not the case. That is why new regulations are needed and I thank Annie Gembicka for the initiative to complement the provisions of the Labour Code and extend the definition of mobbing as proposed. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Mrs. Complainer! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support to the draft law amending the Labour Code, contained in print No 463, and request that it be directed to further work in the Committee on Changes in Codifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What are you doing? It's a left-wing agenda. You just won the election...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u371	Thank you. Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is true that women are discriminated against in the labour market. It is true that women's wages differ from men's wages by an average of 19%. , and if you add any kind of bonuses to that, i.e. to correct this pay gap, we reach 30% of the pay gap. This is wrong, this is wrong, this is an action that needs to be countered. State instruments must be used to equalise pay for men and women, the more that women live longer and are retiring from poverty. The fact that they live longer is... It is women who bear the responsibility, including material responsibility, for the complicated way of life and wages they go through. It is often women who fall off the path of a career, and then they show pensions that are often 2/3 lower than men's pensions. How can we ensure that wages are equal? These inequalities, let us remember, take place primarily in the private sector, mainly in larger companies, those over nine employees. Just typing it into the Labour Code - a project in principle, as to the very right idea, we as the Civic Coalition will support this solution, that is, the pursuit of equal pay - and this as an extension of the definition of mobbing, is with all the noisy announcements that were also coming from Andrzej Duda's mouth when he was running for president, it's kind of like the mountain gave birth to a mouse, because just typing into the mobbing procedure doesn't really do anything. Mobbing procedure is a procedure in which a natural person sues his employer. She's the one running for court recognition. He's an employee, in this case mostly probably an employee, he's gonna have to prove that he's making less money. And how can we do that if they do not include these solutions on the transparency of remuneration? There will be no comparative scale. The State Labour Inspection says today that even mobbing doesn't work, because there is no when, and so built a construction, they won't be able to handle it any more. We declare our willingness to work on solutions that will improve the material situation of women. That is why we will be working on this project with you on the committees. There is also a good solution already existing, prepared by the Women's Congress. This is a law on reducing the pay gap between men and women. These solutions have been applied in most European countries, where they have proved to be effective solutions. Solutions that say that employers have a duty to inform about wage inequalities, if any, women and men, report annually, and if it turns out that these inequalities are based on the gender criterion, they have an obligation to act to prevent these inequalities. This is a standard solution, it would seem, absolutely simplest, it would seem that one that will help women in the labour market to feel safe. I urge you to take a friendly look at these solutions, because if we want to fight for women, let's not do it seemingly. Let's not do it seemingly, typing into the procedure and so very difficult and not working, and let's do it absolutely bravely, because the Polish people deserve it because they deserve equal pay, they deserve equal treatment. This project, which I am talking about, prepared by the Women's Congress Association, was also presented to you. It was also presented to trade unions, associations and employers' associations and has a favourable opinion, because it does not create fiction, but creates a real mechanism. It is the employer's duty to strive for equal pay rather than the employee - to prove that he is harmed. This makes it much easier for a person harmed in the labour market to demand equality. That is why I will pass it on to the Members of the Law and Justice Committee, and we will also ask for a look at this project in committee. We declare cooperation because we know that equality between women and men in the labour market is one of the guarantors of the security of women and the welfare of the Polish family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u373	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u374	Dear Marshal, Dear Members and Members, High Izbo! Today I stand before you on behalf of millions of Polish women, women who in millions of Polish houses every day ask the same question: Why do women's affairs in our country remain unfinished for so many years and are cynically used in a political game? The problem of discrimination, inequality, including pay, is not a new problem. Nobody protests, no black protests in this case, but women protest continues, sometimes mute, for years. Just as we have been fighting for our rights and our fight for equality for years. And here are the members of the ruling party, the party whose family minister under Ordo Iuris' dictation threatens to denounce the anti-violence convention, although the minister of injustice in the same government had just been hiding behind the draft anti-violence act of the solitary perpetrators of violence, behind this project during the debate on the vote of distrust, when this party of the majority who does not respect the rights of minorities refuses them fundamental human rights, for, even the right to be human, the party which grants us further degrees of hell to women, denies them the fundamental rights that permit systemic violence and systematically hates women... That's a lie! Now Members of the same party are submitting a project to combat one of the manifestations of this violence - economic violence. Then let him go, not from the Seym Council. The question is why. Is it because of the results of studies published by the CSO? Regardless of what is causing it, we are happy as the Left that you are leaning on issues of social inequality. But as the practice of the PiS governments shows, even if the intentions are good, although we know that hell is paved, even the hell of women, even if it takes a half step forward, it is in the wrong direction. Because what's on the project? One paragraph, the definition of mobbing extended by a few words, and the problem of wage inequality is not a question of mobbing, it is a question of discrimination, it is a manifestation of discrimination based on gender, the origin of which are prejudices and stereotypes. Will this change of rules change anything in the labour market? Will it make any difference with regard to women's cases, other than the number of cases in court? Unfortunately, you can break any law from law and justice. Can't you make good laws or just know that you don't have to because your president, whose pen doesn't burn, signs every bill anyway? Enough waste paper production. Enough. And I'm not talking about Sasina's filthy cards. Enough wrong law. It's time to make good law. Let it finally be worth something. Mr. Messengers of Law and Justice! Do you know that you belong to a small group of women in this country whose wages are not determined by sex because you earn as much as your fellow Members? What about your fellow Member? But at the same time, wage discrimination in Poland... Where? In Biedronka. Where is this wage discrimination? ... threatens women with economic, social exclusion, has a negative impact on the level of pensions and the level of existence of more than half of our society. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, of the PSL, let us finally end this world that men have made for us. Let's finally make a good law. Let's finally get out of this wall and meet the standards of civilization in 2020. More courage. We can improve this project together, make amendments. The Left will work on this law, but will also submit its own project, which in a comprehensive way will eliminate the problem of wage inequality because this project does not solve it. Mr. Messengers! Girls! I am a Member, not a Messenger. Let's do it together. Let's finally make a good law. We have shown that it is possible to adopt a law on the isolation of the perpetrators of violence. Apologize for what you said about the PiS message. We can do this. Thank you. Girls! We can do this. Where the devil can't, there's a woman, I'm sorry, she'll send a messenger. So that the Left will work on this project, but we will also submit our own bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u375	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 in relation to the proposed amendment - the parliamentary draft of amendments to the Labour Code Act. It is right to refer to the fact that the Polish Constitution, the Labour Code, the EU treaties contain very clear provisions that the same pay should be paid for the same work. At the same time, many studies have been referred to in the explanatory draft. The main study, the GUS study indicated that there were indeed differences in pay between men and women, indeed 19% were invoked. On the other hand, there is also a lot of research in public space on the grounds and causes of such a state of affairs. And now I have this question, and I'm really thinking about the meaning of this project. What is really proposed in this bill? It is proposed to impose a penalty on the employer on a different basis - because the Labour Code indicates other reasons for mobbing. And now: in order to convict someone in Poland or make amends to an employee who is being mobbed, it is necessary to... This employee has to prove himself in court that there are six reasons. It is about actions or behaviour directed against him, long-lasting, persistent, harassment, intimidation. And this change is about adding a mention of an unequal salary. The aim is to humiliate or ridicule an employee, isolate him from his colleagues, which results in a low assessment of professional fitness, as well as a sense of humiliation, isolation. And now we have this definition. And what's the actual situation when it comes to punishing for mobbing? Even if we complete this, what does it look like right now? 90% of these cases shall be brought by courts which are simply dismissed, remitted or resolved to the detriment of an employee. I'm afraid so. Why? Because, above all, cases last for a very long time and those who feel victimized and mobbed must show that these six conditions are met. You're just making one more point, and you're obstructing this employee's path to justice. That's what it looks like, and I don't think anything's gonna change in this situation. In the Polish Labour Code there are records - and here the situation looks a little different - concerning the fact that a worker who feels discriminated on account of the level of remuneration or any other type of inequalities in work related to wages can rely on other articles of this Code and seek compensation. Here, when it comes to the extra and the ease of settling these rights, it's a little bit better. It's not good, but it's a little better. Because as we look at statistics, discrimination cases: 2012 - 1025, of which 94 were considered in favour of the employee, 2016 - it is already much worse, because 788 and only 43 in favour of the employee, and 2017 - 477 and 18 in favour of the employee. The Ministry of Justice has shown that, on average, 19 months are waiting for a positive verdict for the employee. So maybe the problem isn't about changing the law, it's about enforcing the law as it already is. Maybe the problem with these reasons, why this happens, that sometimes women earn less, results from something else... Sometimes they make more money. ...and maybe we should lean on the system changes, e.g. The fact that a lot of women work in professions that are, by nature, less rewarded, and it can simply be a question of raising pay for nurses, teachers, administrative staff, because there are far more women there. But this applies to the whole professional group at all. Room service. Maybe you need to lean over professional activation, because the components of the salary count very often, e.g. an internship allowance and this makes women who are going on maternity leave, educational leave, take a break at work due to the role they play and simply have much less pay. Maybe it's worth thinking about how to help you reconcile roles here, how to help you raise your children, how to make women more able to promote themselves, how to put in place tools to actually activate women and help them reconcile these roles, and not just punish employers. Because I don't think employers are premeditating, but it's because of these different conditions. I would still like to ask, because once Minister Rafalska spoke about a good idea of monitoring these potential inequalities, about applications to measure wage inequalities. How's it look? Does it even work? Is there any effect? Have you looked at this? We are not opposed to working to improve the situation with regard to women's salaries. We'd love to lean on it. But we need to consider whether it is just a rack, the punishment is always a cure for everything, a way to improve something in Poland, or real systemic changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u377	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. And again, the dictation of men.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u378	I see we're really chasing the West, but it's a shame in stupidity. I thought the feminist cross road I was going through in the European Parliament was already behind me, but it turns out that the pious socialists of the PiS will now be at the races with Western feminists to report the same sick ideas in our Seym. Let's start with the fact that it's donkshoteria and belligerentism, fighting a completely imaginary problem, just to suck up to aggressive feminists. Because there's no pay gap. The mere use of this sick concept is unworthy of a right-wing man at all. Because you were never a woman. The word "luka" is already negative and means accepting a silent assumption that the differences naturally occurring on the market are some gap, some hole, a sinister hole that needs to be buried. There's no pay gap. This is bullshit told by people who can't do statistics. Yeah, men make a dozen percent. more than women, but not in the same positions. [[Applause]] You're talking about a global indicator throughout the economy. Men simply choose more risky professions more often, take physical, more exhausting work, under harmful conditions often. Something like that. Yes, yes, ma'am. And that's also reflected in the statistics. Almost 100% Fatal accidents at work are men. Men get overtime more often, work more than one degree. Woman on five. Men live eight years less than women in the end. That's a very high price for this dozen percent... Ha, ha, ha! Yes. What are you laughing at? That's true. Men live eight years less for a reason. That's, among other things. There's a price for working harder, putting themselves at risk more often, getting accidents at work more often. And it's not like women are protected from access to this kind of work. Women just don't want this job. In really comparable positions, the wage difference is negligible. I don't agree with that. And this is due, for example, to the fact that the employment of a woman carries a greater risk of getting pregnant and going on maternity leave... This is a chance. ...which you have to put yourself at risk, because the entrepreneur has to put it at risk. Calling the pay gap by mobbing and trying to scare people with prison will only end with the fact that this risk will be further increased and the less willing employers will hire women. [[Applause]] I have a gentleman's friend. If an employer pays someone less, he probably has his reasons, he doesn't do it maliciously, he has his reasons. [[Applause]] But how is he gonna prove that he was paying a girl less... This is the result of the lack of women in the Confederacy Club. ...because e.g. Is he working worse or less qualified, not because of the sex? What do you think you're gonna do about it? Work is voluntary, if somebody doesn't like it, they can work somewhere else. In fact, if it were true that women in the same positions earn less than men, employers would be more willing to hire women. I mean, it'd be cheaper. Why pay more to a guy if a cupcake does the same job 16 or there 19% Cheaper? Cupcake? A free market would immediately eliminate such a pay gap. Companies that wouldn't make sense to discriminate so that they would just fall under the pressure of cheaper competition employing women. So the idea that the whole society, in which women are even more than half, has conspired to pay less women and hire more expensive men to anger, is so absurd in itself, that anyone who tells such a pharmacies would have to beat these statistics into their heads until they just get over it. Feminists have won equal rights a long time ago, but there are always some people in every move who do not accept it, do not want to get off the barricade even after victory and invent imaginary enemies, imaginary problems. The whole feminism of the 21st century is looking for a hole in the whole, unleashing some sick gender war in which employers are told to look their employees in the fly to make sure that at every level in the company there is an appropriate proportion of penises to vaginas. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] At the end of this madness, of course, there is the European Parliament, which is fighting for equality behind the steering wheel of tire, on fishing boats and is asking for an underappreciated role of women in terrorism - this is authentic. Feminism is a madness that brings shame to normal women. And this way he wants to walk in Poland a party that dares to impersonate the Christian right. Because when it comes to Christendom, do you remember the parable of the workers in the vineyard, how does it end? Those who have come to the last hour, You have equalized them with us, who have borne the burden of the day and the hotness. And he said unto one of them, Friend, I do not harm thee. Didn't you ask me out about the denara? Take what's yours and go away. Am I not allowed to do what I want with my own? You have to learn Bible quotations when you quote them. Come on, sorry. This is Christian ethics. Am I not allowed to do what I want with my own? What right do you want to be good at someone else's expense for someone else's money in other people's businesses? Do your propaganda in your companies for your money. And kissing up to feminists won't do you any good. They will still hate you as much as they did before, just as they despise you, as they always despise the beta-orbiters who pitifully jump. Even recently before the election, you said that this was a civilization war, and that's why you have to tighten your teeth and support Duda, because otherwise we have what's in the West. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So? How's the war going? Ha, ha, ha! Smart guy. A week after the election, you're going out with the left agenda. Thank you very much. You're trying to fool around in front of Brussels again, instead of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u379	Thank you. Eighteen Members joined the questions. What's so funny? Because if you listen to what you're saying... For argument, we can talk another time. For arguments some other time? I'm shutting down the list of people voted in. I'm setting a time to ask you a question for one minute. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u380	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One minute, Member. The amount of remuneration for work should not be dependent on the sex of the worker. Hence my question referring not only to wages but also to the form of employment. The bill does not refer to the so-called law. junk deals. Question to the rulers: Are the companies of the State Treasury employing employees on the so-called. garbage contracts or contracts, and on what scale? This is an important question because these forms of employment are being used frequently. In my view, this is a discriminatory action against all employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u381	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Labour Code clarifies the concept of mobbing, pathology, which is present in many organizations. This poisonous social relationship phenomenon is not yet sufficiently aware, and this type of writing deserves praise. It is also good regulation to establish equal pay for men and women. Here, however, all the inconsistencies of the power camp are drawn. Why on the one hand does Law and Justice show support for equality between women, as in the case of the amendment to the Labour Code, and on the other hand wants to deprive women of their fundamental rights, such as the independent decision on abortion or the possibility of entering into partnerships? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u383	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the opinion of the applicants, how will the proposed amendment to the rules on mobbing affect the labour market situation? How effective is this provision if it is not punishable by any sanction? Why was the burden of evidence transferred to a potential mobbing victim in the event of a possible proceeding? Do you have any idea what percentage of proceedings ends with a final decision and how long the proceedings take? How long will the number of procedures increase after implementation of the proposed legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u385	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, also the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Extending the definition of gender pay differentiation issues should be considered as a very positive expression of the fight against sexism in the labour market. It cannot be allowed that in the country at the beginning of the 21st century, a woman for the same job in the same position on average receives almost 20% lower salary than a man simply because she is a woman. What is important, however, is mechanisms that will actually enforce respect for equal treatment in this respect. I would like to know how this law will be enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u387	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It welcomes attention to the problem of gender inequality and the problem of mobbing. However, when reading the justification and the wording of the provision itself, the question arises: Should the desire to improve the pay situation of women be linked to the extension of the definition of mobbing? All the more so because these are not the same phenomena, and the solutions proposed in the project are really shortcuts, which may make it difficult to identify the phenomenon. We read that the introduction of this definition may facilitate the investigation of rights before a court. However, the truth is that this investigation of the law takes place in such a way that it is a woman who feels discriminated against who has to prove it. So I don't think the introduction of this path would be any particular ease. On the other hand, I would like to say that in fact the Confederate Members work harder than the Confederate Members, because the Confederate Member [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just not in the Seym. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u389	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pay gap between men and women is that you want to expand the directory of scrolls called mobbing. You're modifying a dead recipe. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you write that this bill will not burden the state's finances. And while you foresee an increase in the number of proceedings, and in principle employee cases are exempt from fees, you assume that these proceedings will not be if the cost of proceedings before labour courts does not increase. Way to go, y'all! How are you going to do that so that the employees accuse the employer of differing the level of remuneration on account of the employee's gender, causing him to be underrated when the salaries are classified? How do these workers know they make less money than their friends? Another issue is the actual problem of feminizing poverty. It's about feminized professions that, due to this feminisation, are underpaid. Here is the most visible problem with discrimination against women. It's about all kindergarten girls, librarians and nurses. Are they also supposed to rely on mobbing from the state? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u391	Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u392	Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! When reading the text of this change, I make sure that you should not change the code in such a hurry. There are serious mistakes here, ladies and gentlemen. A simple text and I don't understand, I don't really understand why you differentiate between pay and pay solely on account of sex. The definition of mobbing should pay attention, if you already decide on it, to all differences. We should answer the question of whether less money can be made by a person who looks bad or is of a different nationality or has bad health. Or she's stupid. We're talking about the definition of mobbing at all. Of course, no woman should earn less than a man in the same position. This is wrong. But making law in the way you do it is reprehensible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u393	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm late, but there's a big reason. I wanted to support the presentation of the statistics that Mr Sosnierz spoke about. Mr. Speaker! There's a pay gap. To teach you... Ha, ha, ha! ...I'm going to print papers that not only confirm this, but most of all, they educate people like you. If we are talking about what a pay gap is, it is a real cost reduction for an entrepreneur and a real lack in a wallet for a woman. You, as an experienced politician, should not only know this, but also understand it. Women make unfair competition against men. And to you and the Minister, I have a request that you explain how this is happening... You're telling stories. Where are the statistics? ...that in the times of the United Right, this factor is constantly increasing, not falling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Where are the stats?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u395	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The difference in earnings between men and women is 28% in Poland in the private sector and 19% in the state sector to the detriment of Poles. This is one of the worst indicators in Europe. This revision of the Labour Code implies extending the definition of mobbing to equal pay for men and women working in the same positions. The problem of equal pay between men and women is facing the whole world and the whole world has realized that this is a problem that needs to be tackled, solved as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this amendment will not change this as much as we would like. The best and tested way to achieve this is to introduce pay disclosure, which shows whether employers treat women the same as men. It serves all employees at all, not only to cover the difference between men and women, but simply a clear situation, who earns how much [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the workplace concerned. What do you care how much money you make? I propose more courage, more transparency of wages. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u397	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition. You don't have an MP? I think the Member has had a chat. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. And Mrs. Navel. I called, but you didn't respond. But I am. That's right after the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With economic development, the Labour Code should be adapted to the times and challenges in order to safeguard the interests of both the worker and the employer. It is very good that the Ministry and the applicant have noticed the problem of pay for men and women, because this problem exists. As the previous speakers said, there are differences. Unfortunately, in Poland this is a very serious problem, the situation that I would say is one of the worst in Europe. I have a question: Will the proposed change not favour one of the sexes - man or woman? The dignity of man, both women and men, is paramount, and we should all in this House take care of this dignity and proper treatment in all social and political aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u399	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of unequal pay concerns as many as 20% of women in Poland. The gender pay gap is most often achieved in the private sector. However, this is also the case in the public administration, including your government. For the last 5 years you have shown complete disrespect for Polish women and their rights. Access to specialist doctors and perinatal care has deteriorated. Ladies who are victims of violence do not have access to a state-funded 24-hour helpline. You're taking funding from organizations that help victims of violence, and now you want to denounce the Istanbul Convention. [[Applause]] How many gynecologists are there and how many are there? Ha, ha, ha! Why was the bill notified as a parliamentary project, without proper public consultation? Over 51% The public (the bell) in Poland are women. Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club. We will ask regularly for their rights. We're not going to keep quiet. And the Member... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...a little culture. [[Applause]] And vice versa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u401	You're welcome. Mrs Wanda Nowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The solution to the wage gap deserves a good bill, just as the Women's Congress has prepared. However, trying to solve this problem by changing the definition of mobbing will unfortunately not change the fatal practice of lower pay for women, because it does not take into account the main characteristics of wage discrimination, which is systemic, sectoral and not the incidental nature of unequal pay. Nurses, teachers don't make less money than they do, because they're fed, because they're feminized, and there's a lower salary system. Question: "How do you imagine equalizing the pay of nurses, midwives, teachers through a new definition of mobbing?" Are the ministers of health, education, work or are the prime minister a mobber? Because they're the ones who oversee the sectors where women make less money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to believe in the good intentions of the designers... Mrs Marta Kubiak, Club Law and Justice. ...and I encourage you to take advantage of the bill... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... Women's Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u403	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Kubiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u404	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Draft No 463, draft law amending the Act - Labour Code raises very important issues concerning equal pay for the same work for women and men. Hence my question, a specific question to the Minister. What impact will women's employment decisions have on the economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u405	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u406	Ladies and gentlemen! Members and Messengers! Minister! Minister! I am, of course, very pleased that you have seen the existence of a pay gap. That's always good news. I'm afraid you're confusing your ideas. Mixing the concept of pay gap with the concept of mobbing in my opinion will not do me any good, but the important thing is that she is already starting to call in some church and maybe she will finally start in the right one. I have a question about that. I envy Mr Sosnierz that he thinks that life is so simple. The issue of the pay gap is not a simple matter. It consists of many elements and I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Policy about these elements, because it seems to me that here it is particularly interesting to see the state's position on this issue. I am interested, in particular, in what is your position as regards the introduction in workplaces of publicly available information on forks in specific positions, on the transparency of wages and on the extension of paternity leave only for men. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u407	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mobbing as a phenomenon is not a new element of the reality of Poles and Poles providing work. According to statistics, 46% Polish office, physical and mental workers admit that they experience mobbing in workplaces. More than half were also victims of verbal violence and 14% were victims of verbal violence. Says there's physical violence, too. This data is terrifying. There is also no doubt that what we define as mobbing, many perceive as pathological normality, which they accept despite the fact that it exhausts mentally, physically, also leads to therapy in a psychologist or a psychiatrist, and often the consequence is to lead to suicide. Changing the definition without the involvement of state institutions, including the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will only be a provision that will not actually bring any qualitative change. That's why I'd like to ask if there's plans to run the mobbing programs that are going to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] in fact, they have had an impact on the quality of creating a working environment and the protection of those affected by such violence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u409	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u410	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! High Izbo! We cannot try to fill a pay gap that undoubtedly exists in the labour market by putting out a fire with gasoline. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to help equal pay - this is clearly stated by the conditions existing in the Labour Code: employees have equal rights for the same performance of their duties, as a result of which remuneration is derived from the Constitution: equal treatment between men and women - if we want to do this, let's not do it by referring to mobbing. Why? Because, firstly, there are already indications in the Labour Code, secondly, the burden of proof rests on the worker. Who's he supposed to rest on? Who's he supposed to rest on? The employers. In mobbing, the burden of proof rests on the employee. Can you imagine that the employee will have access to all information about the wages of men, women, people who work? May he rest on his employer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a case like this. And, third of all... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, sir. The effectiveness of this is limited due to the... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u411	Mr President, time is up. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Men taller make more money than short ones. Is that mobbing? Basketball players in the NBA make less money than the tall ones, because they're worse suited to playing basketball. If women make less money than men in some field, it's because they're less suitable for this industry. In the European Parliament, as I said, women earn less because they are lower, weaker and less intelligent than men, on average, I have been punished. The court said, of course, to give me that money back. Ladies and gentlemen, in the European Parliament, men earn money. A lot more than women. Why? Because all drivers are men, and all cleaners are women. The same is true, I suspect, in the Polish Parliament. It's just that driving a car requires a lot more skill than cleaning. That's the simple truth and stop fouling it. By the way, mobbing works both ways. 99% Women don't want to work under the direction of a woman, they want to work under the direction of their boss. And one last thing. There's 6,000. Suicides, 500 of which are committed by women and 5,500 by men terrorized by women's languages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is mobbing. Thank you. [[Applause, joy in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u413	Thank you. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u414	Mr Korwin-Mikke! I don't think women can terrorize you, especially their tongues, but okay. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Question: "Why did the wage inequalities, the wage gap, decide to regulate the broadening of the definition of mobbing in the article?" 94 Therefore, the second question: How do you want to ensure that this law is enforced and effective so that it actually improves the situation of women in the workplace? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u415	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this project, which I think is an opening for the discussion of mobbing, discrimination on the basis of sex in the labour market. Maybe I'll start with the other part because she's very important here when it comes to mobbing. Although we have statutory records, the action that you also mentioned, in which the burden of proof falls on the employee, is not effective. If we look at statistics, the number of reports and court decisions is minimal. In 2019 there were about 100 such cases that took place before the courts. If we look deeper, when it comes to convictions, they're practically gone in our country. I think that the issue of mobbing today is having an important public discussion between the social partners so that we can return to this topic. It is worth discussing, but also making changes. I also understand the parliamentary initiative as a discussion on the issue of mobbing. If we add gender pay differentiation to the definition of mobbing, I also understand that in this respect. That's why we're open to discussion when it comes to mobbing. As regards discrimination issues relating to wages, we have provisions: we have provisions in the Constitution, we have provisions in the Labour Code, that discrimination based on remuneration is prohibited for employment. Except we know how it works. Unfortunately, this action is not effective. The state has given various examples. If we look at the pay gap or the pay gap, our country is looking pretty good. In the public sphere, this gap is virtually nonexistent, with an average of 16% in the private sphere. This can be shaped differently - at 16%. If we put this on European Union statistics, we are at the forefront of the lowest wage gap. The average wage gap in EU countries is 14,8% And we have it at 8.8%. So here we are in a better position, which does not mean that this is a situation that we should accept. Then why are we implementing the same regulations they have when they have more? There is certainly much to be improved in this regard. It is about eliminating those actions that are harmful. I have one general remark. If we're talking about wage differentiation, we're not talking about the fact that there's a difference between the nurse's pay and the doctor's pay, because she's going to perform. We are talking about the same profession - a working man and a woman doing the same profession. If there's a difference, then there's a difference. This is discrimination and it is absolutely unacceptable. In this respect, the wage gap should not exist and it often occurs. There are institutions that oversee it. I have the stats from the State Labour Inspection. In 2019 the number of objects concerning mobbing - these data we have - was 2085, reasonable - 127, unfounded - 519, those that cannot be determined - what you emphasized - almost 1500. The definition of mobbing is difficult and the phenomenon itself is very difficult to prove. This is also due to the fact that the provisions state that the burden of proof rests on the worker. I think we definitely need to have a discussion on this. I also understand the message's proposal that we will be looking for solutions during the work of the codification committee. This subject is also addressed separately at the Social Dialogue Council meetings, where we are looking for a solution that would more comprehensively address both discrimination and mobbing, because, after all, mobbing can also work the other way, it can also affect men. It's not like it's only about one side, which is women. It is worth discussing. That's how we understand this project. Officially, there is no government position on this. We are preparing a position, but we will join in at the level of the Parliamentary work, because the discussion shows that all clubs agree to take the job. No. Clubs. Confederation, I didn't hear... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I was talking about clubs, and is the circle... Let's see what happens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u417	Thank you very much. There is now a representative of the applicants, Mrs Anna Gembicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u418	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, the provisions on mobbing in this amended form will be available to any employee who feels that the behaviour of the employer fulfils these characteristics. The bill doesn't favor any gender. If an employee, regardless of whether he is a woman or a man, considers that his salary is differentiated not because of his competence, the scope of his tasks, the quality of his work, but because of his gender, he will be able to use these rules to fight for his rights. In different sectors, the pay gap is different, which is why these provisions concern the extension of the definition of mobbing so that any worker can benefit from this tool. Interestingly, I think that this might be particularly interesting for Mr Sosnierz - research shows that when researchers sent exactly the same CV, one signing as a woman, the other as a man, men at the start received better wage proposals, although the only difference in documents was whether they were signed as documents of a woman or a man. I think it definitely makes you think, but once again, this isn't about favoring anyone. This is just about equal opportunities. As far as the economic impact is concerned, according to the report "Working and entrepreneurship of women - the potential to use women's participation in Poland is currently 61.4%. This means that as many as four out of 10 Poles of working age do not work. This consists of many factors, because on the one hand, of course, there are some issues concerning, for example, unemployment in the regions, but this also concerns the availability of places of care. Therefore, as Law and Justice, we are constantly increasing the number of childcare places, for example under the "Milch+" programme, for which we spend 400 million PLN in 2020. Of course, the issue of unsatisfactory financial conditions is a very important issue. I don't think any of us would want to work in a place where he's treated worse just because of what kind of gender he is. Whether she's a woman or a man. This proposal aims to offset the impact of this factor on women's employment decisions. That's another line. With regard to the pay gap and the denial that the pay gap exists at all, and the fact that the data are immeasurable. In addition to the study by the CSO, the pay gap is confirmed by research by the Institute of Structural Research. According to these figures, the already revised wage gap rate is around 20% in Poland. As stated in the report, after taking into account all the characteristics that may affect remuneration, the hourly remuneration of doctors and doctors of the same age, with the same professional experience, place of residence, family situation is compared. In other words, when it compares e.g. Women lawyers to men lawyers, this unwarranted pay gap is even bigger than when we compare college graduates with each other, As far as the phrase is concerned, if someone doesn't want to work and doesn't like the terms, let them go somewhere else. Mr President, I would very much like to invite you to my region, where, unfortunately, unemployment is still higher than the average unemployment rate in Poland. Look into the eyes of women who work under such conditions when employers often cheat on them when they don't pay them overtime when they're mistreated, but they're afraid to quit because they won't find another job in their town because there's only one bigger company. I really, really invite you to look these women in the eye and tell them to go somewhere else to work if they don't like it. Thank you. Minister, what about sectoral discrimination against women in feminized professions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u419	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2... Then I'll ask you to answer my question in writing. You're welcome. Madam, you do not have the floor at the moment. ...in conjunction with the article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Act - Labour Code, contained in print No 463, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws (print No. 484). I ask the Head of the Office for Foreigners, Mr Jarosław Szajner, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u420	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws, print no. 484. This government project aims to introduce changes that I will put forward in three points. First, adapting the legal order to the amendments made to the Community Visa Code by Regulation (EU) 2019/1155 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 and introducing amendments to the procedures for issuing, withdrawing and cancelling national visas remaining in the field of national law. Secondly, the introduction of appropriate measures to implement the obligation arising from the accession of the Republic of Poland to the visa-free travel programme, Visa Waiver Program, with the United States of America, concerning the so-called. immigration officials. Thirdly, the introduction of changes in the field of travel medical insurance, whose possession by the foreigner is one of the requirements for obtaining a national visa, as well as one of the requirements for entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland on the basis of such a visa. And so on point one. As regards the adaptation of the Polish right to the revised Community Visa Code and the amendments accompanying in the proceedings concerning the issue, revocation and cancellation of national visas, the draft proposes, in particular, solutions allowing the information required under Article to be included in the invitation. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Visa Regulation in conjunction with Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four Visa Codes. These are information concerning, among others: the identity of the controller, the purposes of data processing, the period of processing, the period of data storage, the right of access to data and the possibility to correct or delete them, in the event that such processing is unlawful. New information obligations related to the application of the Visa Code concerning visa representation agreements have also been imposed on the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is proposed to introduce general deadlines for issuing a national visa by a consul with the possibility of extending it. A solution to which visas will be issued has been proposed and will be dealt with by the consul within 15 days, but in justified cases with the possibility of extending that period to 60 days, given the need for a more extensive verification of the migration risk by the consul. In order to harmonise the procedure for issuing Schengen visas and national visas, the grounds for refusing to issue a national visa related to the foreigner's possession of a travel document which does not meet the criteria set out in the Foreigners' Act were waived. The provisions of the revised Visa Code provide that where the travel document of a foreigner does not comply with the requirements laid down in Article. 12 of the Visa Code, the consul considers the application inadmissible. Consequently, such a solution was designed for the procedure for issuing a national visa. If a foreigner applying for a national visa does not have a travel document fulfilling the requirements of the Foreigners Act, his application will be deemed inadmissible. The draft law also provides for amendments to eliminate doubts as to the form of the consul's decision to maintain the consul's decision following the re-examination of a request for a Schengen visa or a national visa or a request for re-examination, revocation or cancellation of a Schengen visa or a national visa. The proposed provisions provide that the above-mentioned provisions are to be applied. decisions will be issued on the form. They shall also specify the necessary elements thereof and the model of the decision form shall be set out in the Implementing Regulation. These amendments are intended to speed up and streamline the procedure for issuing and withdrawing and cancelling visas. They respond to the needs which have been recognised in consular practice in recent years. For the same purpose, provisions setting out the content of the application form for a national visa will also be amended. New elements will be added to facilitate the subsequent process of this proposal. In view of the changes in the fees for issuing Schengen visas set out in the Visa Code and the possibility of modifying those fees on the basis of the Council's implementing decisions, it is also necessary to amend the Tax Tax Act. Within the scope of point 2. The draft law provides for changes related to the visa-free travel programme with the United States, which requires immigration officials in the country covered by the scheme to be checked for non-criminality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today's legal status does not guarantee the full implementation by the Republic of Poland of such an obligation. It is therefore proposed to introduce specific regulations establishing a common standard for staff employed in the Office for Foreigners, voivodeship offices, the Headquarters of the Border Guard, the Border Guard Authority's field offices and the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Thank you very much, Minister. Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u421	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Magdalen Sroka will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws. The government proposal provides for changes in three areas: adaptation of the Polish legal order to the amendments introduced by Regulation of the European Parliament of 20 June 2019 to the 2009 Regulation establishing the Community Visa Code, introduction of measures to achieve Objective 5, measures to prepare the Republic for accession to the visa-free travel programme with the United States, and changes to travel medical insurance. The project includes amendments to three laws: the Foreigners Act, the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, stay and exit from this territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families. This proposal provides for the following arrangements: to maintain the auxiliary application of the provisions of the Visa Code, to add a new element of invitations, to introduce new information obligations of the Minister of Foreign Affairs vis-à-vis the Head of the Office for Foreigners, to introduce a general deadline for the issuing of national visas by the consulate for up to 15 days, with the possibility of moving that period to 60 days, and to regulate the elements of official forms at the statutory level. Another, second objective of the proposed amendments. It should be noted that on 29 August 2019 the US Embassy submitted a detailed action plan preparing the Republic for accession to the visa-free programme. This document was divided into objectives aimed at improving the security of Polish borders and the process of identifying assumptions. The fifth objective in the specific document concerns the achievement of a state in which all immigration officials, regardless of the level of access to classified information or sensitive information, will be subject to criminal prosecution for intentional offences and intentional fiscal offences. The current legal status does not apply to Border Guard officers. This problem is not here, because officers of both the Border Guard and other uniformed services are already checked for criminality at the recruitment stage. On the other hand, with regard to officials of the offices and commands employed in posts where they will carry out checks for the examination of documents by foreigners, this is the extent to which the proposed provisions will be amended. As far as the third objective of the project is concerned, it is a change in travel medical insurance. It is dictated by the need for better security than before, so that the cost of treatment in the country is actually borne by the insurer, and not that the money to cover it comes from public funds. This is why specific changes have been proposed which will impose such liability on the insurer. Travel medical insurance alone will not change as far as height is concerned, it will continue to be 30,000. The euro will be valid for the duration of the stay of the foreigner in the Republic of Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed amendment in the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u423	Mr Artur Łącki, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present today the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws, print No. 484. The Act, which was presented in December 2019 by the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, aims to align the Polish legal order with the amendments introduced by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union in the Community Code on Visas and introduces a number of amendments to implement the objectives of the action plans preparing the Republic of Poland to join the visa-free movement programme with the United States of America. Without a shadow of doubt, it must be stated that the adoption of this law by the Sejm is necessary and necessary, it will allow the citizens of Poland to fully benefit from the facilities which it entails to include our country in the visa-free travel programme. So far, despite Poland's huge commitment to allied missions, despite the blood spilled on them by Polish soldiers, we remained one of five European countries with irregular visa policy from the USA. Finally, after many years of efforts of Polish diplomacy and procedures of several Polish presidents and several premieres, the goal was achieved. The draft law on amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws presented by the government aims to introduce changes which are dictated by the entry of Poland into the visa-free movement programme with the USA and by the amendment of the Community Code on Visas. The impact assessment shows that this entails a change, among others. in the Foreigners Act, in the National Criminal Register Act and in some other laws. Visa-free travel to the United States of America has been in force since 1986. It was established, as translated, to develop tourism and strengthen the ties between the United States and its allies. Poland has not yet been included in this programme due to the too high percentage of people who were refused an American non-immigration visa, which is a fundamental criterion for the inclusion of the country in the programme. Participation in the US visa-free programme does not mean complete visa waiver. Only applies to people who go to the USA for tourist or business purposes and only for 90 days. The US Embassy in Warsaw gave a diplomatic note a detailed plan of activities preparing Poland for joining the visa-free movement programme. The document sets objectives whose achievement in the assessment of the US Homeland Security Department is to improve the security of Polish borders and improve the identification process of visa applicants. Changes that it introduces, among others, This law makes it possible to achieve further objectives of this plan. This will achieve a state in which all Polish immigration officials, regardless of the level of access to classified or sensitive information, will be checked in terms of criminality to date in the field of intentional or intentional tax offences. It is worth recalling that Poland's eligibility for the visa-free travel scheme will not mean free or full admission to the United States. After arriving at the U.S. airport, we are still under control by the U.S. Immigration Office, which can take us back to the country. In addition, before leaving you will have to apply for the so-called. ESTA authorisation, which is issued for payment and has a 2-year validity. The revision of the Community Visa Code requires amendment of certain provisions of the Foreigners Act. It introduces solutions allowing the information required by the Community Visa Information System and the exchange of data between the Member States of the European Union on short-stay visas to be included in the invitation for aliens outside the Schengen area. The project also imposes new information obligations on the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The provisions on visa consultations will be amended. It is proposed to introduce specific dates for issuing the visa by the consul and to specify how the visa application is to be submitted. A change in the amount of Schengen visa fees at the border makes it necessary to amend the Tax Fee Act. There is also a need to amend the consular law. The reason for this is the need to keep a register of complaints concerning the tasks or activities of the consul relating to the issuing of Schengen visas. In addition, the Act, which is also very important, will set out the conditions to be met by companies offering travel medical insurance for persons arriving in the Schengen area. This will undoubtedly improve the security of Polish borders and Polish citizens. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports and will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u425	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our changes are being examined today by the amendment of the Community Visa Code and the entry of Poland into the visa-free travel programme with the United States. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft amendment, this regulation will enable one of the objectives of the action plan preparing Poland for joining the visa-free travel programme with the United States to be achieved. At the end of August 2019, the U.S. Embassy in Warsaw provided a diplomatic note with a detailed plan of activities preparing Poland for joining the visa-free movement programme. The document is divided into objectives which in the assessment of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security are intended to improve the security of Polish borders and the identification process. The amendment will enable the implementation of Objective 5 of this plan, which is to achieve a state in which all Polish immigration officials, regardless of the level of access to classified or sensitive information, will be checked for criminality. As indicated, the U.S. party expects a criminal review of criminal offences that would correspond to intentional and deliberate tax offences. A 45-day deadline has been set for the implementation of this objective and the 180-day deadline for its implementation. As regards the changes in the requirement of non-punishment for intentional and deliberate tax offences, which would be a condition for employment as an immigration officer, the impact assessment indicates that changes are necessary, inter alia. in the Foreigners Act and in the National Criminal Register Act, also in some other laws. Regulations concerning the absence of prior criminality will apply not only to persons only employed in the Office for Foreign Affairs, in the Voivodeship Offices, in the field offices or in the Border Guard bodies and in the Office serving the Minister of Home Affairs, but also to employees of these offices who decide to change their current position and to hire as an official. Following the revision of the European Visa Code, the Foreigners Act requires amendment of certain provisions. E.g. It introduces solutions to include in the call for information required by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Visa Information System and the exchange of data between Member States on short-stay visas. The project also imposes new information obligations on the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The provisions on visa consultations will also be amended. The draft proposes the introduction of specific dates for issuing a national visa by the consulate and the manner in which the application for a national visa is submitted. Provisions setting out the content of the application form for a national visa will also be amended. A revision of the consular law of 25 June 2015 is needed. The reason for this is the need to keep a register of complaints concerning the tasks or activities of the consul relating to the issuing of Schengen visas. Information on the manner in which these complaints are lodged will be provided on the website of the office serving the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club is in favour of directing this project to further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u427	Thank you. Mr Marek Biernacki, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u428	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 club, I present my position on the government draft law on foreigners and some other laws, print No. 484. The aim of this proposal, as presented by the Minister and all my prominent speakers, is, on the one hand, to align the Polish legal order with the amendments introduced by Regulation 2019/1155 of the European Parliament to the Visa Code and to introduce amendments accompanying the procedures for issuing, withdrawing and cancelling national visas which remain within the scope of national law. On the other hand, measures are envisaged to enable the implementation of Objective 5, i.e. an action plan preparing the Polish State to join the visa-free travel programme with the United States. In addition, it is planned to introduce changes in the regulation of travel medical insurance, whose possession by foreigners will be one of the requirements for obtaining a national visa and conditions for entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland. This record is certainly very important socially, but also I suspect that it can make it difficult for foreigners, especially Eastern foreigners, to enter the territory of Poland, especially for the first time. In the course of the legislative work on this project, a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Siedlecka Business Centre Club and the National Association of Fruit and Vegetables Processors proposed to include in this project records that transfer the competence for work permits from the regional offices to the labour offices. I would like to remind you that temporary residence permits are issued by the governor, while work permits are issued by the provincial authorities. There is a very significant extension of procedures in terms of time. Of course, it can be stated that this service for foreigners would perform work offices. The governor could later have the right to withdraw that decision. However, these solutions were not recognised by the government. We will propose to introduce them later in committee work. Therefore, the Polish Coalition Club requests that the above project be sent to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs and that further work be carried out on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u429	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The processed project concerns changes in the Foreigners Act and some other laws. In addition to the implementation of EU law, the Polish legal order is preparing to prepare a visa plan with the United States of America. Basically, we're dealing with a few changes. E.g. In the description of the precise deadlines for the consul's activities in relation to the issue of visas, we also address the need for visa waivers to the US. And here the other party, also according to the note of the President of the Council of Ministers, wants to increase the security of our services, i.e. that certificates of non-punishment are required in all institutions that deal with foreigners. The regulations also apply to health insurance. The main point is that the insurer should be a member or have its seat in EU or EFTA countries or be verified and that its data should be on the website of the Ministry. This is essentially the right direction, which increases transparency or increases the safety of people who come to Poland from other countries. We as Poles will not be responsible at this time for the costs of possible treatment of such a person, because it is the insurer who takes the risk. Okay, all right, here are some pros. The inviting person should also have the means to allow the person who came to Poland to leave. And that's the right direction too. At a time when. an entrepreneur invites an immigrant, should secure the means for this person to return to his country. It's the right thing to do. But to say the least, it can be a little wider. The Polish state has been under such pressure for years, the pressure of the European Union to increase the amount of law, the number of legal acts we have here. It is not that every provision made up in the European Union is by its very nature wrong, because some may be better, but the fact that we are forever forced to implement EU law is no longer a good direction. But who's responsible? The last 30 years of government in Poland: from Leszek Miller through the Treaty of Lisbon to the recent events that took place in Brussels, i.e. to the next step towards the federalization of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u431	Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Foreigners Act is a good time to ask why there has been no debate in this House for the last 5 years on Polish migration policy, there has been no serious reflection on the most important process, the population change which has been taking place, particularly intensively since 2014, in our country. The scale of migration in recent years is unprecedented, and this is not, as it is commonly believed, only migration from the Ukrainian or Belarusian direction or from seasonal workers. We are dealing with a steady influx of immigrants from Asia, close to, far away, from Central Asia, from Nepal, India, Bangladesh. These figures, because at the beginning they were relatively small, from several hundred a year, jumping, can increase by even a few hundred percent per year in recent years, reach tens of thousands, such as those of Nepalian workers themselves. This is how the social, demographic space of Poland and in this House has been changed and there has been no debate on this subject for all these years, the government has not presented any vision of migration policy other than the wordings that we heard from Prime Minister Morawiecki when he was also Deputy Prime Minister, or from Prime Minister Gowin, about the rapid distribution of citizenship. There is, and cannot be, consent to go on the road of Western Europe and make such changes in the population, and do so de facto without asking the nation's consent, without asking Parliament what it thinks about it, without pursuing any sensible policy to regulate this problem. In view of, for example, the demand for seasonal or temporary workers, labour market shortages, it must be made clear: we do not want to go on the road of Western Europe, and this government in the next term of office is completely reckless and, without any political debate on this subject, is giving us this scenario. That is what we need to say today and appeal to the government [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about courage. Have the courage to discuss this matter with the Poles in this Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u433	Eight ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the proposed amendments to the abovementioned amendment, the government law creates a new range of requirements and obligations to be met by insurance companies. The nature of these requirements indicates that the already privileged and dominant market in the insurance company is favored. Isn't this another attempt by the United Right to bring about a situation where, under the cover of the care of citizens and visitors, the state insurer has become the only company able to meet all the requirements? We already have a monopoly on energy supply markets, fuel stations, now insurance. Is this what modern society and economy are supposed to look like or the kingdom of the monopoly of one party?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u435	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Among the entities affected by the project are the municipalities. It is more than 2477 municipalities and about 179 border crossings. The authors foresee a possible increase in the budget revenue of these local government units for the tax charges for issuing Schengen visas at the border due to an increase in the visa fee from EUR 60 to EUR 80 and, for children aged between 6 and 12, from EUR 35 to EUR 40. In this situation, it is worth reminding you that, in connection with the epidemic, the local government was without aid, and the Left submitted a bill on compensation granted by the government to the municipalities that suffered from Coronavirus. Given that you expect to increase the revenue to the budgets of the municipalities, I would like to know if the revenue from the introduction of the solutions we are talking about in the law will increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u437	Mr Robert Obaz, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the changes in the Foreigners Act, it is worth asking: How many applications for Schengen visas have been received in the last year in Poland? According to the available data, the number of such applications decreased by 25% in 2017. I would also like to know what are the main reasons for refusing to issue these visas and what is the percentage of refusals from which foreigners refer to administrative courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u439	Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Several hundred thousand workers from outside the European Union work in the Republic of Poland, and some say that up to 1 million, 1.5 million or 2 million. I would like to know if this revision of the rules will have a negative impact on the possibility of implementing, among others. seasonal work by workers from countries outside the European Union and, above all, whether the legal protection of their health and life will deteriorate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u441	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes to the Foreigners Act should be a summary for an in-depth discussion on the broader migration policy pursued by this government. On the other hand, given the changes in the content of the Act, it should be asked whether institutions such as the Border Guard, where there are currently more than 10% Vacations, voivodeships and the Foreigners' Office are prepared for new obligations and amendments by law. Again, there are questions about the burden on workers with new tasks and procedures without sufficient support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u443	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I completely agree that you have to look at the causes, and the cause of migratory problems in the sense of immigration to Poland is that since 1956, when Poland gained independence, it is said to reduce the number. The less children, the better. It was a conscious and deliberate anti-Polish policy, so that there would be as little children as possible, because if there are fewer children, these are lower costs of raising. Comrade Gomulka wanted to save on everything, also on children. Unfortunately, it stayed until today. There's just no people. And besides, it's been chased out by the Platform's government, but not just three million people to the West, so it's just a hole. We need to realise that it's not the West's fault... It's not the Asians' fault they're coming to our house. The fault is that we didn't have children. The guilt is on our side, not on someone else's side. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u445	Mr Artur Łącki, Club of the Civic Coalition. Mr. Marshal likes to press fast.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I said, the bill is definitely needed and I believe it - because I still have the faith of such a young Junak - that not all the laws that PiS makes are wrong. This one might turn out to be good. I also have a question about entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs. Until now, in order to invite an employee from Ukraine, they must send him an invitation. The invitation costs 30, 40, 50 - different. I know that this year, for one employee or two employees to arrive, they had to make 10 or 20 invitations. So they spent some money and two arrived. The question is, in this bill, did we finally make a record that would tell this employee at least to get to the employer and tell him that he's going somewhere else, not waiting for such a man, he doesn't come and you don't know what's going on. This is a really important issue and I would ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u447	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u448	Minister! God's happiness in hard work for the country! I will also ask for a written answer to my question, because it is about foreigners who come to us to work at the lower levels of the social ladder. I think that our voters would be interested in full information, which concerns employment in Poland, work, attention, in the administration and state services of people who license not only Polish passport, but may not have Polish passport at all. If the Minister wishes to prepare such a list: where we can, what is their number, find non-Polish people who (The Bell) work for the brightest Republic of Poland, I will repeat: in administration, services, police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u449	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Szajner now has the floor of the Head of the Office for Foreign Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u450	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to answer the questions asked as carefully as possible. Thus, with regard to insurance companies, whose case has been raised here, that some insurance companies will be favoured. It should be noted that the Act clearly indicates the objective criteria on the basis of which these insurance companies were selected. Please note that it is precisely in order to safeguard both foreigners and the Polish state that these criteria have been indicated. We have identified the seat of the insurance company as well as, if this seat is located outside the European Union or the EFTA countries, an audit is required which will indicate the liquidity of the insurance company concerned. I think that there is no question of favouritism here in any way, but merely indicating objective criteria on the basis of which these insurance companies will be able to provide services to foreigners. With regard to the question about the increase in visa fees and the increase in municipal income, it should be pointed out that last year, on the basis of our analyses, this increase amounted to a total of 171 thousand for the whole of Poland for all municipalities. zł, for the whole year, so I think this is not a significant amount if divided by the number of municipalities. As regards the number of applications for and refusals to issue a Schengen visa, we will answer the question in writing because I do not have the data collected at the moment. As regards the question of the burden on employees in connection with the introduction of amendments to the bill - the employees of the Office for Foreigners, Voivodeships, Border Guard officers - this project does not impose any special burdens on employees. The only noticeable and noticeable burden that could be, for the organization itself, is to check the non-punishment of the employee concerned, as provided for in the Act 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. So the burden for the workers themselves here is not anticipated. Some of you are asking for a written reply. Once again, I would like to stress that the changes that are being made to this particular project are necessary and necessary to ensure the security of the Polish state, as well as of our officials who carry out their tasks both in the Office for Foreigners, in the voivodeship offices and in the Border Guard facilities, and are as necessary and necessary for the security of the Polish state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u451	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Foreigners Act and certain other laws contained in print No. 484, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 15 September 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020 (prints No 400 and 492). I ask Mr Jerzy Materna to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020, prints 400 and 492. The joint committees at their meeting on 21 July 2020 considered the draft law and adopted it in a vote without objection. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state border between the Republic of Belarus and the People's Republic of Belarus, which is 418 km long, is largely determined by the watercourses of Bugu, Narwi, Świsloczy, Volkushanka and Black Hancka with a total length of 240 km. To date, Poland is bound by bilateral cooperation agreements in border waters with the Federal Republic of Germany, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Lithuania and Ukraine. Poland was missing the signing of the agreement with the Republic of Belarus. Cooperation with Belarus in cross-border waters has been limited for many years to agreeing individual projects shared or implemented by one of the parties. It took 20 years to negotiate the agreement as it stands. The need to sign an agreement between two countries arises, for example, from the principles of the European Union's water policy, and more specifically Directive 2000/60/EC, which obliges the Member States of the European Union to manage water resources in the water catchment system. Also, the AGN Convention (European agreement on major inland waterways of international importance) ratified by Poland in January 2017 obliges Poland to adapt the E40 waterway connecting the Baltic Sea (from Gdansk) with the Black Sea (to Odessa) to the fourth class of navigability during a certain period of time. Neighbouring cooperation in cross-border waters is also the objective of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Watercourses and International Lakes, adopted in Helsinki on 17 March 1992, to which both Poland and Belarus are parties. There is therefore a need for agreement in the light of the problems faced by water management. The benefits of cooperation in cross-border waters are enormous as it facilitates sustainable development and improved access to water resources of good quality for society and the economy by effective protection of waters against pollution, flood protection, combating drought, improving the state of waters and ecosystems dependent on waters and protecting waters from excessive collection. Moreover, despite the lack of legal regulation, the costs of the necessary activities in water management in cross-border waters at the border with Belarus are mainly borne by the Polish side. Legal regulation of cooperation with Belarus should also increase the participation of the Belarusian party in the costs of investment and maintenance of cross-border waters, which is all the more beneficial for Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This agreement contains 17 articles and statutes. It defines cross-border and border waters, covers the scope of cooperation, further, rights and obligations, the use of cross-border waters, the protection of cross-border waters against pollution, environmental impact assessment, financing and implementation of projects and works, emergency situations, information exchange, maintenance and crossing of the state border, tax and customs provisions, the way in which the dispute is resolved or the establishment of a committee for cooperation in cross-border waters, as well as final provisions. This agreement will concern 11 entities, including the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the President of the National Water Farm of Poland or the General Director for Environmental Protection. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The envisaged agreement will have a positive social impact by increasing flood safety for residents, tackling drought, protecting water against pollution, and increasing the availability of water resources in the context of social needs. The agreement also has a positive economic impact by using water for economic purposes. As far as the financial impact is concerned, the agreement will not have increased additional financial implications for the state budget, inter alia. the fact that its entry into force will not result in the need to amend national law (the bell), nor will it impose additional financial obligations on Poland arising from the need to pay membership contributions. Finally, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, as rapporteur, I recommend the adoption of this draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u453	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020, print No 400. The state border between Poland and the Republic of Belarus is largely defined by watercourses, including the rivers Bug, Narew and Świslocz. The total length of the water section is over 240 km. Since the independence of the Republic of Belarus from the USSR in 1991, cooperation between Poland and Belarus in cross-border waters has not been legally regulated. In this regard, in 2000 the Polish party proposed an agreement and a proposal for negotiations. Following negotiations with a break of about 20 years, as my previous speaker said, the text was agreed and on 7 February this year. an agreement has been signed in Białowieża on this matter. This agreement defines inter alia. the scope of cooperation, rights and obligations of the parties, the way in which cross-border waters are used, the exchange of information. In order to implement the agreement, a bilateral Polish-Belarusian cooperation committee will be set up in cross-border waters. I wanted to point out that it has already become clear that the scope and purpose of the agreement are covered by the legislation on water management in the Republic of Poland and in the European Union. Currently, despite the lack of regulation, the costs incurred in water management in cross-border waters with Belarus are necessary and necessary and are mainly borne by the Polish side. Legal regulation should increase the participation of the Belarusian party in the costs of investment and maintenance of cross-border waters, which is more beneficial for Poland. In view of the positive social, economic, financial and legal effects of this agreement, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the printing agreement No 400 and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u455	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the infrastructure of bilateral agreements between Poland and the Republic of Belarus is more than modest. It must therefore be welcomed that, after many years of negotiations, we can debate today on the ratification of a new agreement, a cooperation agreement on the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters. It will be one of the few agreements that connect our two neighbouring countries. But it is happy because creating a stable legal basis for neighbouring cooperation is always nice and well seen and good for the future. What is the significance of this agreement? Above all, it will be of great importance for the cleanliness of the waters, especially Bug's purity. It is worth reminding that from Bug waters it is powered by drinking water, among others. Warsaw. Today, the Belarusian side is not able to provide waste water treatment on its side. This cross-border agreement, this agreement, will create an opportunity to involve the Polish party and create joint investments in the field of water purification on the Belarusian side. As far as nature conservation is concerned, the whole region of the Białowieża Forest is concerned, it also means the possibility of good cooperation. The Narew River, the Narewka River, the Augustów Canal, which is a huge undertaking which has the potential to build good neighbourly cooperation - this is also the water infrastructure worth talking about and needs to be discussed on this occasion. The most interested in implementing this agreement is, of course, my voivodship, my region, the Podlaskie voivodship, which mostly borders with the Republic of Belarus, but also all regions of Eastern Poland are interested. In conclusion, the Civic Coalition Club supports and supports the ratification of this agreement as a deepening neighbourly cooperation and beneficial for the Polish party. I would also like to use this moment to address the government. Unfortunately, I don't see a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here. There's a representative. I'm very happy for you. I would like to remind you that this is not the only issue between Poland and Belarus today, and this is not the only issue in our neighbouring relations that is important. I want to remind you that on June 17th this year. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Polish Sejm called on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to act actively in connection with the wave of repression before the presidential elections in Belarus. 1,200 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - so many signatures have been gathered by civil society in Belarus under opposition candidates. Today, on this occasion, I wanted to appeal to the government. It cannot be that the government of the Republic of Poland is silent in a situation where we have a wave of repression in our eastern neighbour, when the main opponents Aleksandra Lukashenka in the elections is in prison, and the heroic woman Svetlana Tichanovskaya fights him alone. It is important that Polish diplomacy finally takes the floor in this matter. It cannot be that the only voice on the part of Poland on the crisis in Belarus is the voice of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Once again, I appeal to the government for an active attitude in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u457	Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Water marks more than half of the border line between Poland and Belarus. Both countries are parties to the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waters and International Lakes, but so far we have not reached an agreement with the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in cross-border waters between our countries. In 2000 the Council Poland presented the Belarusian side with the first project, but only now, after 20 years, it was possible to agree on this text in compromise. This shows, Minister, the scale of neglect that Polish diplomacy has in the eastern section. We have a common history with the Republic of Belarus. It is a neighbour who is extremely important for the security of our country, and therefore today, in the face of growing tension in international relations, it is particularly pleased that the governments of both countries are able to reach a common position. The agreement with the Republic of Belarus was the result of long negotiations, during which the concepts of different legal orders had to be clarified. Such agreements gradually bring Belarus closer to Europe and build cooperation mechanisms that can also be affected in areas not related to water management. Belarus is inhabited by a large Polish minority. We must remember that our responsible policy towards the Republic of Belarus also depends on the fate of our fellow countrymen. This agreement is a step in the right direction. The agreement brings significant environmental benefits. It will improve the protection against pollution and the status of water-dependent ecosystems, Poland will gain knowledge about the quality of water on the Belarusian side, NFOŚ will be able to finance in the form of a loan of actions in the field of sewage management, which will reduce pollution, and we will gain more access to good quality water resources and better protection against floods and droughts. It is important in the context of taking care of our national treasure, which is the Białowieża Forest. Poland has made similar bilateral agreements with other neighbours. Now it's time for the Republic of Belarus. The agreement will create a bilateral committee on cross-border waters. Importantly, this agreement has no significant implications for the state budget. Currently, as a result of the lack of regulation, the costs of water management activities are mainly borne by the Polish side. Regulation of cooperation will increase the participation of the Belarusian party in costs. The agreement does not pose political problems or the need to substantially adapt national law. In view of all of this and the benefits of this agreement, the parliamentary club of the Left recommends the adoption of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u459	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Club, I would also like to join in support of this law ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus. Of course, I also join the previous statements, the statements made by my previous speakers on the need for this cooperation, especially since this ratification and this agreement are indeed a good opportunity for us to also involve EU measures, for example in improving the cleanliness of waters shared with Belarus, which are being polluted on that side. I would also like to say that when it comes to Belarusian society itself and the opportunity to cooperate with Poland, there has always been a lot of openness on that side. I think that regardless of what political and political systems we share, this level of civic cooperation should be developed and maintained by the Polish side and Polish local governments, all the more so because Poles in Belarus also play an important role. As Minister of Agriculture, I have been in Belarus many times. We were already discussing the Augustów Canal, its use. It must be said that on the Belarusian side the infrastructure for reconstruction, the renewal of this channel was done well - although worse with this tourist infrastructure - while on the Polish side there were commitments and we have not done so so far. So that there is this channel, it is a common heritage of the Second Republic of Poland, and here, on our side, unfortunately it was missing. I would also like to say that in difficult times, when Russia introduced an embargo on Polish food, on Polish products, among others. Thanks to good personal relations, as well as the neighborhood, many Polish food products could be sold on the Belarusian market in a far informal way, and they also exported them to the great Russian market. For this reason, it is worth it - what I think is missing, starting in 1991. - give greater attention to the integration of Belarus and Ukraine with Poland and our common interest, so to speak, representation, impact on the structures of the European Union. Then perhaps the position of Poland not only through the Visegrad Group, but also through this regional context of cooperation within the Second Republic would be much more important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u461	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, we were just discussing the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters. It's a good thing that after 29 years, we're finally going to settle this case. Everyone should be happy. But first, one point. It cannot be that Members are ignored. We have received no substantive documents, no analysis of the effects of this agreement. Does it really have to be the same problem every time? To my question, whether such documents were in the Polish Waters, whether the Chief Inspector of Environmental Protection, the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management prepared such documents, I got the answer: yes, they prepared, only that they were not provided to us. Do we really have to debate something we don't have full knowledge of? I would simply ask for a different treatment and full analysis of Members for the future. [[Applause]] In addition, to my question on the committee on cooperation in territorial waters, I got an answer that the Belarusian side had already appointed its co-chairman, and we still have no idea who to appoint. How can you not? And that, too, is an obvious problem, because we should be better prepared for these things. Thank you. [[Applause]] God!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u463	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It turns out we're happy to handle this, but we have to ask ourselves why we're doing this so far. I recall how I spoke to Mrs. Fotyga in previous PiS governments, who treated the idea of all conversations with Belarus as the devil of holy water. There were orders from Berlin, Brussels, New York, which forbid us to do so, and Poland should pave the way for Belarus as a neighbour, not America. [[Applause]] Only after the Americans, when Mr. Mike Pompeo came and let us, we sign this kind of treaty with Belarus. This is obviously unacceptable. I would like to remind you that when I piloted the project that I was just talking about, which is the project of the Gdansk - Odessa channel, one voivodeship did not pass through, it made the area available, because when Korwin-Mikke does it, this case needs to be screwed up. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry, it can't be that economic matters depend on politics. If you can make the way, you have to do it. If relationships can be settled, they need to be regulated. And Poland must become a good neighbour of Belarus, because Belarus separates us from Russia. It is very important that there are strong countries: Belarus and Ukraine, which divide us from Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we must defend Mr Lukashenka, who is currently defending Belarus' independence from the attack on Russia. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u465	Thank you. Three Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the bill on ratification of the agreement is optimistic, but I would like to refer to the agreement itself. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 on the use of cross-border waters, the possibility of water tourism has been entered, although in this case the parties may conclude separate international agreements. As you know, water tourism in these often charming landscaped places is close to zero. I believe that the use of these sites would have a positive impact not only because of the ability to enjoy their charms, but also because of economic reasons for both countries. Therefore, I would like to ask: have there been any discussions on this matter and whether there is a real chance in the near future for the development of tourism, e.g. Bug? If so, does the government have any ideas on this? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u467	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Question: "What's next? I understand that this is a good start, that this is such an uncontroversial little thing that we start with. Mr. Minister Dear! Speaker! Then it was Colonel Prądzyński, then the general, the chief of staff at the time of the November Uprising, who was digging this Augustów Canal for us, so how is it that this channel lies apart, right? Let's get this over with. I will be calm when the government of the Republic of Poland negotiates with the Belarusian government some construction, oh, Hong Kong on the island, let's put it in the place where Muchaviec falls into the Bug, it is in Brest. Excellent location. Let's make a duty-free zone out there, because it was Catherine's will called the Great, so that between then St. Petersburg [[♪ The bell ♪]] And Berlin was no other capital. So our existence determines one another. Minsk, Warsaw - a joint matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u469	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u470	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm from Szczecin, so I was born... Far from Belarus. Excuse me? You're far from Belarus. Far away, but I was born on the Oder, which is why I would like to say that it is very important to have this kind of agreement and cooperation on the issue of cross-border waters and flood protection. And just to be clear, the waters in these rivers don't feel politics, they don't know politics, they're overpolitical. There is no doubt, therefore, that this is a great success, that such an agreement has been signed. In this agreement, however, we have a point on this joint committee. And here's my question. There are appointed co-chairs as regards this committee, but there is no specific number of actors or number of persons on that committee. Were there any arrangements here? And then there's the other thing. There's a record saying that if there's a problem on this committee, we're gonna settle it all on a diplomatic basis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there is also the question: What do we mean by this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u471	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the Minister to speak... Minister, excuse me, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Minister Anna Moscow. Unexpected change of venue. But how wonderful.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u472	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I always admire the members of the Confederate Confederation that they can make a show out of any, even the most serious subject, and a little bit of it worked out today too. Indeed, the deal is extremely important. A few sentences about why it's so late, because it's really late. The Belarusian side interrupted negotiations for several years for more specific reasons. We negotiated this agreement with Ukraine in 1996, when we were not in the European Union, so we did not have treaties, directives and it was much easier to clarify certain concepts. We are already here in the reality of the European Union, while Belarus actually functions primarily in the UN order. Hence these differences of concepts, starting with the fact that the Belarusian side had no idea of water management. Explain why there is so little in this document on inland navigation. With us, the competences related to inland navigation and maritime management are in one department - in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, while on the Belarusian side the competences related to inland navigation are in the Ministry of Transport. Consequently, this agreement - as a consequence of the UN Convention and EU regulations - primarily concerns elements related to water quality, flooding, drought, water quality monitoring and navigation conditions... Correct... ...then he doesn't talk about hydrotechnical structures... 30 seconds... ...about the details... Shh... The Minister is speaking. ...these elements. There is also a separate committee dealing with transport cooperation and details of this cooperation are discussed, among others. It is about the airlocks on the Augustów Canal, because it is one of the main challenges in this cooperation. And that explains, above all, why there is so little. Of course, we wanted and we had the intention to have much more elements in the area of inland waterway transport in this agreement, but this is not in line with the competences of the Ministry on the Belarusian side. As far as this committee is concerned, it is primarily intergovernmental cooperation on those topics which are covered by the agreement, i.e. above all our ministry, the Ministry of Environment, the Environmental Protection Inspection, the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, because there is also an important element concerning the exchange of data on hydrometeorological data. So, as you read the data on the negotiations and the formation of this agreement, this institutional shape will largely overlap. The Minister has also recently changed on the Belarusian side, so it is likely that the composition of those who will cooperate with us will change again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u473	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, since the day is closing, I would ask you kindly: If you can shorten your statements, let us try. Very polite, politely please, because we'll either be done at an hour. 23, or maybe we can do that. 40 minutes. No. You're welcome, you're welcome, you're welcome. Yes. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block, as no amendments have been tabled. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019 (prints Nos 433 and 497). I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Rau to present a report to the committee. I think Marshal Witek would be proud of me. I read it so quickly. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u474	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019 in print No 433. In relations between Poland and the Argentine Republic, the issue of extradition has not yet been regulated. With regard to our country, this situation prevented Polish prosecutors from submitting applications for surrenders from the territory of Argentina, which often created a situation of a kind of impunity for people residing in that territory, and those accused in Poland for crimes, including the most serious ones. The agreement concluded in Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019 changes this situation. In defining the rules for mutual surrender, it creates the basis for enabling courts and prosecutors to conduct ex-traditional proceedings and specifically regulates all issues related to this issue. First of all, the agreement provides for extradition of persons on the territory of one of the parties at the request of the other party if they are being prosecuted for criminal proceedings against them or for the execution of the sentence already imposed. The issue is based on offences which, under the law of both parties, are punishable by a maximum duration of imprisonment of at least 2 years or by an even more severe penalty. The contract under consideration shall be modelled, inter alia. at the European Convention on Extradition, drawn up in Paris on 13 December 1957, and other bilateral agreements on similar subjects binding the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights after first reading and after considering the draft law at its meeting on 21 July this year. adopted a report requesting the adoption by the High House of draft legislation in print 433, without amendments. Thank you. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir, for your help in terms of time. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope I don't use three minutes. Me too. So I would like to stress, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the Government's proposal to ratify this agreement. This will allow to regulate issues that have not yet been regulated, in Polish-Argentinian relations, and allow extradition of the most dangerous criminals who commit crimes in the territory of Poland or Argentina. This situation has not been regulated so far, so it will, of course, broaden the treaty base between our countries and lead to the situation that we expect, and thus to the rapid extradition and exchange of information and those suspected of committing crimes from both countries. So, to sum up, Mr Marshal, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft agreement submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u477	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Tom, the platform is yours. You've got three minutes you're probably not gonna take.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'll try not to use three minutes, so I'll speak quickly. God's Buenos - She sang Kora. God is supposed to be Argentina and its capital. But for some, the end of God's Buenos, because divinely in Buenos, and also in all Argentina, could feel Polish citizens who were protecting themselves there from law enforcement authorities. Argentina has provided safe shelter, as we have heard, because its legislation provides for the possibility of surrendering persons only at the request of the courts. The time of blissful peace ends because he's being taken away by an extradition agreement signed in December Ub. Buenos Aires. Since it concerns the freedom, rights and obligations of citizens, it requires the so-called. Big ratification. The President shall ratify this agreement after obtaining the consent of the Sejm as expressed in the bill submitted. It's probably one of the shortest laws in the Seym - it has only two articles and 39 words. The Civic Coalition Club supports the adoption of this law and supports the ratification of the agreement. However, I take the opportunity to raise two doubts. As highlighted in the explanatory memorandum, the agreement is modelled on the European Convention on Extradition. But as far as limitation is concerned, there seems to be no such coherence. In the Polish-Argentina agreement art. 5 says that it is refused to issue if the prosecution or execution of the penalty has been statute-barred according to the law of the requesting party, and the Convention in Article. 10 specifies that the statute applies to two countries. Is this an intentional or accidental discrepancy? It is worth asking such a question and it is worth answering, Minister. Art. 4 of the Polish-Argentina agreement contains mandatory grounds for refusal. Point 7 sets out such a case: if a person may be exposed to cruel, inhuman treatment. Why it is not written directly what is contained in the article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 constitutions, a broader term: extradition is prohibited if it violates human and citizen freedoms and rights? From a practical point of view, there is probably no big problem, because the courts in these cases will certainly apply the Constitution's provisions, but why not simply duplicate the Constitution's wording? Thanks to the ratification of the agreement, the world will be seriously shrinking for criminals. In Argentina, they're gonna stop drinking champagne, and they're probably not gonna be able to do that anymore. I repeat, the Civic Coalition Club supports the ratification of the agreement, although it would be desirable for its rules to be applied as rarely as possible, because this will mean that Argentina is no longer a refuge for those who have seriously violated Polish law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u479	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Maciej Gdula, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u480	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Argentina is a country that is basically a symbol of freedom. It is geographically extensive, it won very early independence, at the beginning of the 19th century. But it is wrong if this freedom serves to evade Polish law and avoid justice. That's why the Left Club is in favour of ratifying the extradition agreement. We should have this kind of regulation in our relationship with Argentina. Now in Buenos Aires it's time. 16. Those who have broken Polish law will no longer have a quiet evening. Good. The Left Club's gonna lay a hand on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u481	Thank you very much, sir. Now I know why I'm at the Left Club. Marek Sawicki, Member of the Polish People's Party, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. There you go. Lots of cards.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the expectations of Mr Marshal, the Polish Coalition Club is in favour of ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Argentina on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u483	Thank you very much. I have bad news for the Left Club: I'm going to the PSL. Ha, ha, ha! I would like to invite you very warmly, sir. There's still the Confederacy. Mr Krystian Kamiński, Circle of the Polish Confederation. It's like you're even taking it, I wouldn't come.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u484	Here's another problem. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Justice and Human Rights, we discussed the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Argentina and Poland on extradition. This agreement can be assessed positively, especially in relation to the current situation. It is worth noting the positive direction of development of Polish foreign policy, which aims to deepen cooperation with the countries of South America. I hope that there will be more and more such agreements in the future, signals in that direction. The only question that came up, and mine, was the secrecy of personal data, art. 24 of this deal. I asked for the development of how the Polish administrator is to assess the security of personal data in Argentina. The Ministry assured me that not only will the legislation of the other party be examined, but also practice, and Argentina is on the white list when it comes to keeping secrets, protecting personal data. There is therefore no doubt here. So that the Confederation will support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u485	Thank you very much, sir. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Romanowski. Minister, the platform is yours. You've got five minutes, even though I hate to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u486	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll try to shorten my speech. Professor, Mr President, the rapporteur has already put forward the most important issues relating to the ratification of the extradition agreement with Argentina. This indeed fills a significant gap, because so far there has been no multilateral or bilateral agreement between the two countries, and this in the absence of Argentina's legislation and the absence of the Treaty bases has led to the fact that no requests other than those from judicial authorities have been dealt with. As a result, this has undermined procedures aimed at prosecuting those who are being prosecuted, i.e. those who are at the stage of the investigation, often in important cases. The contract is actually modelled, among others. at the 1957 European Convention on Extradition, to which Poland has been a party since 1993, including other bilateral agreements. This shows that we rely on instruments tested in practice, which have been used for years by the courts and prosecutors in the proceedings for the issue. As regards the remark concerning the discrepancy between Article. 10 European Convention and Article. 5 of this project, this is due to the fact that the limitation periods in Argentina are generally much shorter than in Poland. Therefore, this solution is beneficial for Poland in the context of the departure from this principle adopted in the European Convention on Extradition. Besides, it can be said on the margins that most of the proposals come from the Polish side rather than from the Argentine side. In accordance with the agreement, compliance with the Constitution and the needs of the judiciary has been ensured. As regards the general clause on the obligation to issue, it is further supplemented by exceptions. The absolute reason for refusing to comply with the application is, inter alia. conflict with the principles of public policy. This is, in a sense, also the answer to the second remark, why there is no direct literal reference to the wording of the article. 55 constitutions. It seems that this provision is consuming and, at the same time, we must remember that this is an agreement that is negotiated, and it is not always possible for any wording that is expected by the negotiating party to actually be in it. On the other hand, it appears that the absolute grounds for refusal as well as the optional conditions laid down in the following Articles, Article. 4, Article 5 is sufficient to ensure that the Constitution's provisions are preserved, including as regards the surrender of its own citizens. This is clearly at the request of the Argentine party, and Poland has also guaranteed itself the right to refuse to give up its own citizens. High Izbo! The fact that the agreement is signed is in the direction of Poland's foreign policy, in order to deepen cooperation with South America, also contributes to combating the culture of impunity and broadening the treaty base. We create a specific, comprehensive instrument, which will be the basis for both courts and prosecutors' offices' activities without the need, as so far, to apply to the principle of reciprocity or to provide additional guarantees to the Argentine side. I therefore ask the High House to give a positive consideration to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u487	Thank you very much, Minister. Thanking the rapporteur for his excellent bill, I close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on liability for breach of the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products (prints Nos 495 and 507). I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to submit a report to the committee. It's a complicated story. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u488	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on liability for breach of the provisions of the mutual recognition regulation in accordance with the law placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point for products, print No 495. On July 20, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the bill to the Sejm. At its meeting on 22 July, i.e. today, the project was considered and discussed. Some editorial and legislative amendments have been tabled. Of course, the committee after discussing the project, which mainly concerns two substantive areas, i.e. the responsibility of the entrepreneur for a possible false statement and... Second substantive scope This is the establishment of a contact point that serves entrepreneurs in the act. This is a statutory mandate and this is the change compared to the previous state, because such a point has existed since 2009. The Commission recommends adopting this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u489	Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I have a request for you to stay, because right now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, law and justice, you can say one sentence and move on.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u490	This may not be closed to one thing, Mr Marshal, but I will say that as a club of law and justice, all the solutions that serve entrepreneurs, especially those who want to enter other markets - this is about the internal markets of the European Union - we support all these actions. This government bill is part of this and, of course, we will vote in favour of this project. We do not make any amendments at second reading. These solutions, which are proposed, will certainly contribute to the development of Polish entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u491	Thank you very, very, very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Welcome, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition has supported, supported and supported all kinds of activities that promote the development of entrepreneurship. We assume that the government, but also Parliament, has a number of elements to do in this area. First of all, don't bother. Secondly, appropriate fiscal policy. Thirdly, an appropriate control system, which will not be too burdensome for entrepreneurs. It is also about the appropriate policy of the tax authorities. Entrepreneurs are to be a partner for the tax office, and the tax office - sometimes a doctor, not an executioner. He should be helping, not disturbing. The next thing is the sustainability and interpretation of the law. They must be permanent and cannot be interpreted freely. And the most important thing, I guess. the mentality to take up business and the atmosphere that makes people want to take up business, so that they are not afraid to see that if someone takes risks, then we should be happy and support such people. The regulation that we are talking about today - and we should go back to earlier European Parliament Regulation No 764 of 2008 - obviously did not fully pass the test. Some countries have blocked the introduction of goods into their market by other operators. It was precisely that the economic operator had to carry out the same research - even though it already had it - in another country when he wanted to introduce the product in another country. The March 2019 regulation, but also the draft law, goes in the right direction and, in my opinion, removes barriers to the free movement of goods. The internal market of the European Union must be more open and must be much stronger. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that if it is issued once a certificate for a given trader - e.g. in Poland, this certificate is valid in all countries of the European Union. Then this trader will only have to make an appropriate statement. This is extremely important because it means less risk, less costs for companies, saving time, saving money, but also less bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, last item - contact point. There is a request to the Ministry that this contact point actually function properly in order to get this information to small companies in particular, because the large companies that are on the international market today will deal with it. Today, I believe this project is about small companies again. So let us take care of small companies, let them also export, give them a chance not only to operate on the Polish market, but also on the European market and on the world market. I am convinced that Polish entrepreneurs will be able to deal with this very well if they receive further support from the government. I would like to say that the Civic Coalition supports this project and will vote for it. Mr. Marshal! I join a group of Members who have completed their speech before time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u493	Mr President, thank you very much for joining this group. I cordially invite Zdzisław Wolski, Member of the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u494	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! The predecessor raised the bar. I don't know if I can fit in time. The Left Parliamentary Club also supports this project, as did the predecessors. For us, all the facilitations for business activities that help entrepreneurs, businesses, and the largest ones, and micro-enterprises, and even make it easier for individuals doing business, will always have our support. There is only one thing I would add here that we, as the Left, pay particular attention to workers' rights, and it is not in a way that interferes with the interests of entrepreneurs. A good worker who is satisfied with work, well paid, works well, and we know very well that the most important thing in doing successful business is staff, from management to basic employees. I'll move on to today's bill. It is good that this law is so minimal that it contains only the necessary records. In fact, it contains only two points of substance. The first concerns liability for infringement of Regulation 515 of the European Parliament on the mutual recognition of goods in accordance with the law of its own country. It specifically regulates responsibility so far because it has been carried out since 2009, but some issues have been legally unclear, including the EU. The Union has issued a regulation, we adapt to this and the responsibility that has begun to be said is finally clearly defined. It will only be administrative responsibility. If a voluntary statement about your goods were made by an entrepreneur or wholesaler against EU law, then the responsibility will actually be only a monetary penalty, i.e. an administrative penalty. There will be no situation of duplication with criminal liability, which means that this case is finally clearly regulated. The Act contains only general parameters which will be taken into account in the execution of this penalty, from 0 to 100,000. zł. By the way, it is good that the government has listened to the demands of some stakeholders and reduced the previously intended penalty of 200 000. $100,000. Let us hope that there will never be a need to increase this penalty. That's one thing. And the second point is the contact point. This activity, as I said, has already been carried out in principle since 2008, 2009 in particular, because the previous regulation of the European Parliament was adopted in 2008. Finally, this contact point will facilitate information on how to get to the European market, because we are all interested in this, so that our producers, or even wholesalers, locate our goods on the European market so that they can get shortcuts, without harassment - sometimes they can happen in different European countries - without having to re-examine, expensive, commissioned to easily enter European markets with goods. From what Minister Mazur, present at the committee meeting, said, and it sounded very credible, it seems that it has already started slowly, a little bit to the honey barrel - this regulation has been in force since 19 April, we have 3 months of skiding, we could have done it earlier. To counterbalance, it will begin to apply on the first day after the bill was announced, so that the lost time will catch up. It is very good that this contact point will be integrated into a pan-European communication and information system for market surveillance purposes. This system will be available to all 18 stakeholders. This is another advantage of this law that we have listed 18 entities evaluating and controlling goods, which today include all goods that are produced in the country. This is not a closed list, new institutions may appear, innovative goods may appear. This bill does not block it and is (the bell) forward-looking. To conclude - I apologize for the time being - the European Parliament has created two regulations: one we are talking about, the other which is complementary and will create a control package that will come into force... Mr... I'm almost done. ...in July next year. I hope that I am directing this to the ministers that the work on this subject is already beginning. Then it will be complementary - so-called. the freight package. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u495	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. To tell you the truth, it's been a long time since I've heard so many good words about the PiS project delivered by the Left. This is amazing, some kind of scandal. Maybe you can at least reprimand the project. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u496	Last I'm here, I can... There you go. ...to speak longer. Mr. Marshal! Minister! If there's a good project, you have to support it, there's nothing to criticize. Like the Polish People's Party, the Coalition of Poland, it always says that we will support good projects that serve mainly Polish entrepreneurs, and this is a project that meets the expectations of entrepreneurs, our entire economy. It's nothing new, because it's already functioning somehow. The predecessors talked about the recognition of certificates or quality standards that the goods meet. Of course, these standards are defined by individual institutions, 18 central institutions are specified in the description in the explanatory memorandum. On the other hand, the trader must make a statement that his goods meet these expectations, with a certificate of course. It's not a certificate. It's a statement. It's important. It's important. And he has full responsibility. If he doesn't confirm the truth, there's consequences. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is from supporting entrepreneurs and many such initiatives by different governments have been undertaken within this Ministry, so this project is another project that is intended to serve entrepreneurs. I think he'll serve. As far as the point of contact is concerned, in order to explain effectively, to assist in the formulation of an application for recognition of access to the European common market for products for which standards are not harmonised in the common market, it is very important, because sometimes there are many examples that are unclear, controversial, difficult to access to the common market. Thank you very much, Marshal. It's supposed to be short and short. Mr President, it was brief, but brilliant. Brilliant. As always.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u497	And thank you for that. Minister! Would you like to commend a few good words on this brilliant, fantastic, wonderful bill? You have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal is asking to be brief. The bill is short, so I'll be brief. Thank you so much for those positive words. To be honest, I wasn't expecting such a good reception. From right to left we actually have consensus, it was stated that it was a good law, very condensed, precise, which helps Polish entrepreneurs to gain other European markets. And I hope that, as we have a consensus here, so in other economic matters we will also be able to convince you of our agenda. I hope that this law is precisely the announcement of such a broad consensus on economic matters. And thank you very much for that. As to the expectations, whether we will be active as a contact point, I reply that, as we have been doing since 2010, we are turning to entrepreneurs with great openness, so that information on recognition in other markets is as widely disseminated as possible, as it is understandable to Polish companies, especially the small and medium-sized ones that you spoke about in the Left. So that this contact point will certainly serve it, and I hope that it will take place to the glory of our homeland. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u499	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mazur, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, made an explanation. Minister, thank you very, very much. Does Mr Gawron feel like not saying anything anymore?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u500	I'll tell you what. Oh, no. It's such a pleasant atmosphere, Mr. Marshal. Let us not spoil it, sir. Absolutely not. I also wanted to thank you for the substantive work and statements of all Members, as well as opposition clubs, because it is always very nice if there is such a common desire to help Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-22-sejm-15-1.u501	Thank you very much. Just make good draft laws and there is consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 22 July this year. The meeting shall be adjourned by 23 July 2020 at the latest. 9. Tomorrow I'll also have the pleasure of meeting with you. Goodbye. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 05]]
