ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Dear Senators, located in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the deliberations. [[Voting No 4]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u2	Room 217... there's no voting device working on some of the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u3	Thank you for letting me know. Please check the IT network. How much time do you need? [[Voice from the room: We can continue here, and we'll check there...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, but there's a vote coming up, so we can't go on. Please... I'm declaring a five-minute technical recess to check for communication with room 217. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 41 to 10 minutes 45]] Ladies and gentlemen, the problem seems to be fixed. I ask you to resume voting, which is only intended to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. I'm asking you to give me any vote. Please include the machine in the vote. We'll see if the system's working. Please state the results of the vote. This time 76 senators voted. [[Voting No 5]] We assume that so many are attending the meeting. Were there any problems in room 217? [[Voice from the room: It's okay.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that 76 senators have taken part in the vote. As regards communications I inform you that an hour's adjournment will be announced at 3 pm. I would also like to inform you that the joint committees, including the Foreign Affairs Committee, have concluded the procedure for the draft resolution on the Republic of Belarus. This printing is currently in senate processing. I am pleased to inform you that the committee has adopted this resolution unanimously and that... [[Voice from the room: Commissions.]] Yes, committees, committees adopted it unanimously. As soon as the printing is ready, I will propose that we complete the agenda for this item. I also propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs Following the information of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the voting point and the point: changes in the membership of the Senate Committee and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Thank you very much. We begin to consider item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle of 1920 and its forgotten heroes. Welcome to the sitting of Mrs. Zofia Jakubowicz, niece of Captain Stefan Pogonowski... [[Applause]] ...and co-chairs of the Social Construction Committee of the Monument to Captain Stefan Pogonowski, Mr Robert Dybalski and Mr Peter Paduszyński. [[Applause]] I would remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The draft is contained in print No 176 and the committee's report in print No 176 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! Of course, in a special way, I would like to welcome again the niece of Captain Stefan Pogonowski, Mrs Zofia Jakubowicz and both the presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Legislative Commission, I would very much like to ask you, on behalf of the committee, to accept this draft in Senate printing No 176 S. The Commission met on 30 July. In her first reading, she considered the project in question. After several amendments were tabled, a single text was created that you received. In this report unintended typographs appeared and one comma was missing, therefore in the draft resolution Which, I hope, the entire House will soon accept, of course, we will correct these language errors. On behalf of the committee and the group of senators who have requested this proposal, I ask the High House to accept it. And now, as senator, the applicant: allow me a few words of reflection in the context of this resolution and the heroes that we mention in this resolution. The year 1920 is of course one of the most important cards in Poland's history. We all remember these events and there is no need to remind you of details, including those which are of course included in the draft special resolution, in which of course we mention the importance and importance of the Battle of Warsaw and the victories of the Polish army over the invading Bolsheviks of weight and importance not only for the newly reborn Poland, but of course for the whole of Europe. But we must also remember in the context of the events of a hundred years ago that in fact this victory was often contrary to the popular opinions of those who looked at these events. Therefore, the Senate in its draft resolution mentions those who particularly contributed to this victory. This is of course the Polish army, Polish soldiers, but also the heroic civilian population. We must remember that in fact, the turn of July and August 1920... The atmosphere at that time seems to be best served by the letter sent to the Prime Minister of the British Government by the secretary of the cabinet of the British head of government from Warsaw. And in this letter we read: Poland is unsupportable between Germany and Russia. We must withdraw from all responsibility for its fate and leave it to the great neighbours. That's what the one who represented one of our allies wrote. At that time British Prime Minister Lloyd George negotiated a truce between Poland and the Bolsheviks with Lviv Kamienev in London at the beginning of August. And what we could read in this proposal In exchange for the ceasefire, Poland was to agree to reduce its troops to 50,000 soldiers, to release the Red Army's arms stocks, which were to take over the Soviet people's militia created in the territory of the Second Republic of Poland, and to free passage through the Polish territories of Soviet transports. This de facto meant the fiction of state borders and the fiction of Poland as an independent, sovereign state. This ultimatum in practice also meant that after a short break of independence in a moment there would probably be a real liquidation of Poland. When the Polish authorities rejected this ultimatum, London stated that it would stop providing any assistance to the Republic. At that time, the British Prime Minister openly demanded Piłsudski's resignation by diplomatic channels, and the French Prime Minister, the second of our most important allies, maintained a shaky position. At that time the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Polish government Eustacha Sapieha informed, at the beginning of August, diplomats still in Warsaw, that the Polish government did not take responsibility for their security. Józef Piłsudski, preparing an offensive plan, was also, of course, subjected to various pressures and influences. He sent a letter to Prime Minister Wincent Witos, in which he informed the Prime Minister that he was prepared to resign from all positions and that the decision on this matter was left to the head of government. Witos could have announced it just after a possible counteroffensive defeat, but he also had the opportunity to act immediately and announce it before the beginning of the battle, as our British allies pressured. Vincent Witos used the letter he locked him in the safe. Fortunately, there were those who did not lose faith in victory and will to fight. First of all, they were Polish soldiers, whose symbol is Captain Stefan Pogonowski or captain Alexander Napiórkowski. They are the examples of these forgotten heroes. Heroes were also ordinary Warsawers. As another British diplomat wrote at the beginning of August from Warsaw, the lack of any panic among the broad masses is simply unusual A member of the French mission, Charles de Gaulle, after the Polish counteroffensive, wrote in his report to the superiors: the offensive began perfectly, the enemy completely surprised, nowhere puts a more serious resistance; these Poles as if they had attached their wings, the same soldiers who had been physically exhausted a week ago, run forward and beat the 40 km stage a day after the stage. That is why the Senate decided to recall these extremely important events from 100 years ago. But the Senate also decided to remind, by symbolic presence in the draft of this resolution, 2 Polish officers, Captain Stefan Pogonowski and captain Alexander Napiórkowski. Why do we resemble these characters? General Lucjan Żeligowski wrote about the attack at Wólka Radzyminska in his excellent book The Russians saw their goal almost achieved. From their position there were visible fires and lights of Warsaw. We have already defended our capital with despair. They fought not only cannons, rifles and bayonets, but hearts and psychics of both armies. They were the winners, we were the winners. The road to Warsaw was an opening. It seemed that the enemy could easily enter it. At this moment, a weak battalion, without waiting for an hour of general attack, attacks a point which, as it turned out later, was the most sensitive place of the Russian army, the center of the main artery of the enemy movement forward. We have lost many officers... but the death of Pogonowski (...) is a historical moment. In this place, the war card turned, and there was a psychological breakthrough between us and the Russians. From the moment of this attack began the retreat of three, victorious and unstoppable brigades, as well as the 21st division from Słupna, thus creating chaos and confusion. Pogonowski, led by extraordinary instinct, began the victory and the 10th division and 1st army at the beachfront of Warsaw. This is the great significance of his deed and the glory of his soldierly death. Lieutenant Pogonowski posthumously was appointed captain and decorated with the cross of Virtuti Militari. He was buried, as he wished, in Łódź in the Old Cemetery. The ceremonial funeral was attended by Łódź crowds. He was going to build a statue in Łódź. It didn't happen. Let us hope it will happen now, which is why we are co-chaired by the Social Committee for the Construction of Captain Pogonowski's Monument. Thank you both for coming. The second symbol that we are calling today is the captain Alexander Napiórkowski, a unique victim of this war. He was a parliamentarian, a Member who, as an ordinary soldier, volunteered to join the army. Earlier he was a well-known PPS activist, a legionary and, as I said, a Member of the Second Polish Legislative Sejm. On 18 August, during the Battle of Sarnowa Góra, he commanded the charge of the Ulysses squadron to the position of the Bolsheviks. Unfortunately, he's badly wounded, and he's dying as a result of his injuries. He was posthumously promoted to the rank of captain and decorated with the Silver Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari. Ladies and gentlemen, in the presence of Mrs.Zofia Jakubowicz, niece of Captain Pogonowski, I would like to ask you warmly and cordially to adopt a resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw in 1920 and its forgotten heroes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u5	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is simultaneously the applicant for the project. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? If not, I'll open the discussion. I'd like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Ujazdowski. You have to sign up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that I think that each of us will support and support the draft resolution presented by Senator Kwiatkowski. But I have this sense of duty... Don't take this as an expression of political criticism, but simply a statement of truth. Unfortunately, as a result of a misposition of historical policy, or actually a departure from historical policy, which was formulated at the end of the 1990s From the time of Jerzy Buzek's government And which was directed to focus on the international role of Poland, on what is universal in Polish historical experience, we enter the celebrations of the century of the Warsaw Battle without the momentum of this event, in much worse conditions. I remember celebrating the millennium of the Gniezno convention when there were no institutions responsible for historical politics. We have been able to worship such events with great momentum, with the participation of the heads of our neighbors. In that case also the chancellor of Germany. I'm saying the most obvious thing. Yes? This should be a celebration with the participation of world leaders, and the concentration of our attention should concern 2 points: that Poland saved the civilization of freedom. Not only did she save herself, she also saved Europe for two decades from the communist invasion, because that was the goal. The Battle of Warsaw is one of the elements of the Polish historical experience, which can be defined in one word. It was George Weigel who wrote in the introduction to John Paul's biography II: Everyone who loves freedom has a debt to Poland. This should sound very strong and should be the main message of international initiatives organised by Poland. Unfortunately, on the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle they will be very modest. The second recital is the presentation of Mr Kwiatkowski's speech. In spite of these pessimistic diplomatic notes, it is Poland's independence that is a factor of stability in Europe. The authors of these notes thought that the Polish state was destabilizing Europe, so it is necessary to return to the period of partitions. Well, such notes also appeared. During the period of "Solidarity'. Well, the reaction of one of the prominent German politicians to the introduction of martial law in Poland: fortunately there was order in Warsaw. We have proven that independent Poland is a factor of stability in Europe. And today it is confirmed, for 3 decades the existence of independent Poland. This should also sound very strongly in international discourse, because it is a pity that these celebrations will be so modest, without momentum. And they will be modest, and they will be without momentum unless they are conducted in the spirit of the state's historical policy. This requires at least a minimum of political reconciliation in Poland. If historical policy is used as part of an internal game, an internal struggle, it is always with the result of a weakening of the international resonance. I hope that the next great celebrations will be with due regard to our experience and our historical merits of momentum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are voting on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle of 1920 and its forgotten heroes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle of 1920 and its forgotten heroes. I would like to inform you that we have received a signal at the moment that Senator Swed has made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I ask Mrs. Zofia Jakubowicz to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution. If it's a problem, I can approach you. I'll come over. Please. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u8	We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 165 and the Commission's reports In prints No 165 A and No 165 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mind if I take a seat? [[Yes, of course.]] Thank you very much. On 29 July 2018, Directive 2018/957, which extended the list of provisions in force in the host countries of posted workers, laid down the conditions that the employer must fulfil for them, introduced rules on how to deal with those workers. I will say that it has introduced a whole range of solutions that are important for posted workers. The law by the government of the Republic of Poland, which we have before us, implements these principles into Polish law. And everything would be fine, probably no one would object to the proposed solutions if it weren't for a few very important facts. First of all, it's quite erratic. This could still be corrected by the text of the Act, recalling in some places faulty references to the rules. As I say, it could be fixed. But the sin that we cannot give up on this issue is to extend the implementation of EU law to completely unrelated legal solutions which, in accordance with the principle of good legislation, should be prepared in other separate provisions. There is no reason to extend remote working time in the implementation of EU law and directive. There is no reason in this law that, once again, I stress this, which implements the EU's right to our legal trading, to lay down rules when an official letter during the pandemic is considered to be accepted and when it is not recognised. These other right solutions, which facilitate access to bank loans granted to employers affected by the pandemic, cannot, as I say, be regarded as being related to the implementation of EU law. And it is certainly not possible to conclude that this act gives a summary to the revision of the expenditure rule, which recognises that the amount of expenditure planned in the draft budget law for 2020 will be reduced by the expenditure of local government units. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first case in which legislation is not in conformity with the Polish Constitution, which is explained very clearly by the senaccy legislators, referring to certain judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Why? We cannot tie non-binding laws into a single piece of legislation. You can't disagree with that information. And during the proceedings of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I asked the question why a country from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy combines the implementation of the law with these legal solutions. I have heard that the Government's Legislative Centre does not make such comments, it considers them to be quite reasonable, so you are asking for these solutions to be adopted, with some of the amendments that you have brought to your family, work and social policy, asking for their support, to accept them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I made a motion to reject this law for these very reasons, because of the unconstitutional procedure, to reject it at first reading. There is nothing to prevent EU law from preparing in a law which closes the implementation of the law, nothing to prevent the expenditure rule from being dealt with in separate legislation, nothing to prevent it from dealing in other legal acts with matters relating to the facilitation of bank loans, regarding official letters, relating to remote work. The Senate, the Sejm are ready to work, there's no reason to proceed against the principles of good legislation. This proposal was adopted by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and I recommend that the High House accept this proposal. I will add only this: the Senate of the Republic of Poland cannot accept legislation incompatible with the Polish constitution and principles of good legislation. In fact, one step at a time, cutting off a slice of slices, we get used to disrespecting the law. We have a faculty Constitutional Court, because we know that there are judges in it whose appointment is questionable, as stated by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, because they replace judges who have been appointed in accordance with the rules and for which the President has not found time to take the oath from them, so they sit and do not sit in the Constitutional Court. We have the facade Supreme Control Chamber. Because it's hard to say that a person of good repute is the president there. We actually have a facade government. Because no one sitting in this room listening to what I am saying has any doubt that the Prime Minister's decisions must always be subject to the approval of a private Member, the chairman of the governing party, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. There is no doubt that there was a House on the subject of elections which the European Court of Justice has reservations about, which it says is not a Chamber. We must wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Tell me, do you think we can afford to follow the facade Sejm, where no one listens to the arguments of the opposite party, where there is no discussion, because there are laws that go through this House within 24 hours from the moment of their submission until the President's signature... This is not the right way to make law. Nobody who really thinks about legislation in Poland will say that the Sejm is debating laws. The Seym passes them, but it doesn't debate them. The last bastion of upholding the rule of law is the Senate of the Republic of Poland. And that is why I would recommend to the High House that the request be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u10	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! The Senators, both in the halls and participating in the meeting in remote mode! I am pleased to present a proposal from the minority of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee on the Posting of Workers Act. One thing I can agree with my previous speaker is that the law should be corrected to the very end. And from this assumption comes a minority of committees, in particular I, as the applicant of this request, together with Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. In the course of the committee's work, our Legislative Office And I would like to thank you for that. Something that is a legislative error, something that is obviously a writer's mistake. As members of the committee, we propose that in Article. 4 in point 5, in Article. 15zzel. 1 words, Art. 15zee2 paragraph. 6, paragraph 6. Points 1 to 3 and paragraph 8 shall apply. replace the text with the words "Article." 15zze2 7, paragraph. Point 10 (1) to (3) and Article 10 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Twelve, six, six, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, This amendment, which was proposed by our Senate Legislative Office, was supported by a representative of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and was welcomed. And in our view, the amendment of this regulation allows us to implement this law legally through the upper chamber of our parliament. This error, in my opinion, is an obvious typographic error, so that the amendment is simple. I don't think she's gonna cause any more controversy. And regulation in its entirety is needed in the Polish legislative system. This is the implementation of what EU law brings. I will therefore ask for this law to be adopted with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u12	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our committee, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, also referred to the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. The Senate Marshal sent this bill to our committee on 30 July. On 11 August 2020, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance considered this law and tabled one amendment. I therefore propose that this law be adopted together with the amendment made by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances. Our amendment is to delete an article from this law. 12. Senator Magdalena Kochan explained in very detail the whole process of work in the Sejm and in the government, the work undertaken in connection with this law, and also drew attention to these serious constitutional doubts, namely that a number of provisions have been introduced into the law which implements European rules, which have nothing to do with the directive being implemented. These additional provisions were introduced at the last stage of the work on the law, already at third reading. A State sitting in the High House, as well as our guests, ministers, know that for many years we have all been paying attention We have also been called to this attention many times. How important is the way in which laws are worked, how amendments are made, at what stage the Sejm can do and what the Senate can do. When we did not respect these rules, when others did not respect them, the Constitutional Tribunal actually unconditionally, without even looking at the validity of these solutions, repealed questionable provisions in the laws. The Senate has repeatedly launched a legislative initiative to amend such laws in order to bring them into line with the Constitution. For some time now, however, under the pretext of the pandemic of Coronavirus, rules have been introduced that have violated this principle, which has been respected, can be said, ever since the beginning of free Poland. At this point, we are talking about a change that liberalizes the application of a stabilizing spending rule, a rule that, in the days of the Civic Platform's rule, but also in the previous term of office, is already under the rule of law and justice. Although not for the entire term of office It was considered to be very important. This is the principle that organizes the budget process. I'm talking about spending, about the rules of public spending. In general, it is such a principle that we spend less when times are good, fat and more in lean years, so as to boost the economy, prevent crises. This principle, this rule, which has also been prepared for times of crisis, should be respected. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has been having a discussion with the Minister of Finance for several months now, discussing how it should work, and having a stabilising expenditure rule. Moreover, we have even prepared a bill that would amend this principle, in some places soothing it, and in other places strengthening it. Well, we need to think about finances in the spirit of political responsibility for the future of the next generations. Unfortunately, the stabilizing expenditure rule has already been revised several times, at least twice, and in such a way that it was not due to some reflection, analyzing it by the Ministry of Finance, by the government. This was done by throwing in various kinds of laws. This time you threw the state here. The Ministry of Finance probably did it, but with the hands of the Members A deep liberalisation that virtually eliminates a stabilizing expenditure rule. This applies to the inclusion of local government debt. This provision concerns the budget for 2021, so it is not related to expenditure and problems of the current year. This is, of course, related to the preparation of the budget for 2021. The government is obliged to prepare a draft budget by the end of September. We, members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, are convinced that the rules amending the expenditure rule, the stabilisation of expenditure, could have been introduced in a different way, i.e. to give them a deep debate, a debate in parliament, so as to make our fellow countrymen aware of the consequences of the fact that we stop paying attention to discipline, that we can spend more than we have, that we can create artificial money, money that will have to be spent in the future... Today, everyone or most of Poland is easily accepted with all these declarations that we are still giving money for this, for this and for this. These declarations and actual expenditures are really huge. And few people say that these are not funds that come from our resources, which the Treasury, the state budget has in some wardrobe, in accounts with Polish or other banks, in the National Bank of Poland. These are funds, finance created, these are money we don't have that we don't have. It's all gonna have to be paid at some point. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that there can be no decisions which have such consequences that money is spent and some measures are not counted, decisions which concern the stability of state expenditure, taking in a way in which there is no debate, there is no discussion. These rules are a little embarrassing, without convincing Members and the public that certain changes need to be made. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, we asked... The government on this law. This is the law concerning posted workers . you represented the Minister of Sweden from the competent Ministry responsible for these cases. Of course, it was difficult for the Minister to answer questions about the rules for budgeting and stabilising expenditure rules, so we asked the Minister of Finance to give a reason for such a procedure today. I would like to say once again that we, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and as the Senate, are not entirely opposed to change. We are ready to talk about different solutions, including those that are unusual, different from today's. But all this must be done in a clear, transparent and understandable way for the public, as well as for those who are the law. We do not agree that the law should be made in a shameful way, in a sloppy way, in the evenings, in the nights and without explaining the reasons for such a procession, not another. Our committee has proposed an amendment which excludes Article. 12. We left the remaining provisions of the bill, so to speak, for the plenary session, for the decision of the entire Senate. We consider that the law can be adopted with the amendment proposed by the committee concerning the deletion of the article. 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u14	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Adam Szejnfeld has a question for you, Senator Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would first of all like to thank Senator Magdalena Kochan and congratulate her on her speech, not only on her evaluation of this law, but at all on the legislative process we have seen in recent years. This law is one of many examples, but it is a very good example. Peas with cabbage This is one statement that can be used here. The law, which is intended to cover a specific legal area, contains a number of solutions and proposals which concern completely different laws, topics and legislative scopes, which should be considered scandalous. The proposal not so much to work but to reject this law as well as other similar laws deserves, in my opinion, recognition of the Senate Chamber. Let's get to the question. I would like to ask if the Senator, the rapporteur, has knowledge of the public consultation. I ask you this because one of the shortcomings of the legislative process that is being conducted today under the rule of law and justice is what I said, which is that you create peas with cabbage. What is the subject of standardisation and the rules that should not be. Besides, there is, of course, a fracture or rather a breach, because it is a notorious legislative process, so inserting a non-constitutionally, with a breach of the article. 118, 119 of the Constitution Legal solutions in the form of amendments already under the legislative procedure. And another feature of this legislative process is the complete lack of public consultation, which means disrespect for civil society. Was there an exception in this case, or is this law also part of the bad practice of Law and Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u16	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u17	Mr. Senator, I'm not fully aware of whether the consultation has been conducted. It seems that during the debate during the committee's deliberations... It would be good if the senator asked the Minister or the Ministry's representative on this matter. It seems that part of the consultation on this issue took place, because as regards the interest rate on bank loans that are granted to businesses affected by COVID-19, there was information from the Minister that employers are waiting for these solutions. And I believe they're waiting. I do not question the validity of these changes, I believe that they are right. However, we cannot accept the fact that these solutions are being introduced in such a non-constitutional way as regards the legislative process. I am not speaking on the issue of the liberalisation of the expenditure rule on this matter, Mr Kazimierz Kleina, perhaps more competent than I am, but I am sure one thing: the expenditure rule cannot, cannot be debated only in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and quietly, on the occasion of the implementation of EU law, in the Committee on Public Finance. The Committee on Public Finance did not address the issue of lending. You thought it was okay. Nor do you question the validity of these legal solutions. However, please prepare them properly, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the applicable rules. Who, if not the Senate, is to follow these rules? The Sejm doesn't do it, but it's a matter of the Sejm, how it processes. We are responsible for what the Senate of the Republic of Poland does. Therefore, these solutions and this method of proceding cannot be brought into order. The end doesn't justify the means. If that were the case, any lawlessness could always be justified by some idea that is right. That's not what we're after. That's not what we're talking about. I am convinced that if the government properly prepares the implementation of EU law, it will pass through the Senate without more debate and we will accept these solutions. If you want to justify why credit should be more accessible to COVID-related employers, of course we will support that. But if you want to liberalize the spending rule by a separate legal act, this issue can no longer go undisputed, because it concerns our daily life and what debts our children and grandchildren will pay through the wastefulness or lack of economy of the rulers. And this is the clou for which today... That's the problem I'm talking about. Technically, all the solutions are pretty good. Of course, obvious mistakes can be corrected. You can, but in a way appropriate to the legislative order. That's why I'm repeating my motion. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first case. This isn't the first time we've tried and said for the sake of the cause... There's no good case if there's no law enforcement. These principles of law are laid down to be respected For order, public order and respect for the institutions of the state. If we do not show this respect for the institutions of the state in the Senate, where should we show it? If no one else wants to keep it. Yes, we have a duty to uphold the law. And I'm not sorry for the strong words. I'm sending you back to our vows. Remember what we swore, to whom we swore, and who trusted us to keep this oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u18	Thank you, Senator. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka asks Senator Kochan's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Senator, in this Chamber and in committee meetings, we hear of the openness of our colleagues from the Law and Justice to make amendments to the laws which come from the Sejm and which really require dozens of amendments. I am already overlooking these dozens of legislative amendments. Of course, the practice looks completely different and very often these declarations are not kept. Today, in support of his declarations, Senator Majer gave one case. The amendment to the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases, etc., which, in my view, is not related to the posting of workers, especially since in Article. 9 in the paragraph. 2 in Section 2, the working conditions and other employment conditions are defined and there is a reference to the Labour Code, which also contains elements related to the coronavirus and the epidemic. I'd like to ask if I'm right. Is it really these links and these additional laws that are included here and that they're taking away from you, as far as I can see? More space is needed here than the actual implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive? In fact, in the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd point 2, so to speak, is it also fulfilling this situation in which we are in today? I would also like to ask whether the content of this aspect of the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive in your assessment is sufficiently clear that the participants in this posting will be able to understand their responsibilities and tasks at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u20	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jazłowiecka is right. Implementation of Union law This is not the strong side of the Polish government. Laws that implement the law must rely on, first, really good translation, and second. translation, which refers to the realities of Polish legislation, the realities of the Polish Labour Code. Senator, if we decided to work exclusively on the implementation of EU law, we would bring a lot of amendments into the text of this law. Also language ones that would not require completion of the Colloquialism I apologize to you The laws of the Sorbonne, so you can understand what's going on. So you understand who's the employer, who's not the employer, who's the employee whose employer it is. either the one who employs in the country concerned or the one who delegates to that Member State. All these linguistic things could be improved if we were to work exclusively on the implementation of EU law. We would probably also eliminate interpretations of the law that exclude each other. Because if you applied the provisions of the amending act and the provisions of the amended law, it would turn out that in one place for sure They're mutually exclusive. But we did not discuss these issues during the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy mainly for the reasons that I gave at the beginning and which led to the adoption of a proposal for rejection at first reading of the entire law. Yeah, you'd have to work hard on that implementation. And that's possible. We are open to this work and ready for this work, provided it is really an implementation of EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u22	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Alexander Swed to see Senator Kleina. Can Senator Alexander Swed ask you a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u23	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Indeed, I would like to address my question to Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Mr. Senator, in your report... Well, we know that this amendment, as has already been emphasised many times, is intended to implement European Union law. In your report, you said that the government was, as it were, making some outbursts at the third reading in the Sejm. And I read in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau that after the first reading at the Sejm meeting, the project was addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. 4 amendments were tabled at second reading and rejected at third reading. 280 Members voted in favour of the bill, 164 against, 3 abstentions. Well, where were those bugs you mentioned in the report at the third reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u24	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u25	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm obviously not in a position to verify that at the moment. But, of course, this amendment was introduced at the seismic stage, which is no longer in line with the principles of legislative practice, not as it should be. And then there's the other thing. I strongly stressed here that the Posted Workers Act introduced rules on the liberalisation of expenditure rules. Once again, I would like to say with all my power: we have met several times with the Minister of Finance at the committee meeting, and we have also discussed this issue. We asked if there were any initiatives to change this stabilisation spending rule. That's not what they said. There was no emergency. Of course, the emergency situation is the coronavirus and it has been known for months that they can be of different kinds And we know that there will be and there will be State budget problems, and this year, this year, and next year. The finance minister at our committee meeting as well... But the Prime Minister also declared that there would be an amendment of the budget for the current year, which was due to take place in July. So far we have no information on the revision of the 2020 budget. The amendment of this provision as regards the revision of the expenditure rule concerns the draft budget for 2021. Thus, the whole procedure related to the amendment of the Law on the stabilisation of expenditure could be carried out in a normal manner. There is still enough time that you could have cases that concern one area, put in a single bill, not mess up the order in one document.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u26	Thank you. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome. And please indicate to whom that question is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u27	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, my first comment is addressed to both rapporteurs of the committee. I didn't really know what this bill was about. As I understand it, you were also talking at committee meetings about the main content of the bill. Well, so far I've only learned about the shortcomings of this bill, about what you deny, in different ways. About that in a minute. Well, I'll admit that it's usually that if the rapporteur doesn't want to or doesn't know how to present something, he says: it wasn't the work of the committee. That wasn't the opinion here. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. If the budget committee behaved in a way, I would call it explainable, computeable: certain provisions of the budget, in quotes, did not fit, so it removes them from the bill, leaves the core, all the more so that we have to implement EU rules... Well, I have a question: do you realize what it would mean if this motion to reject the bill passed and if, God forbid, the Sejm accepted it? This would mean that we would not implement EU rules. What would be the result of this? Well, if you wanted to remove it from the bill, I'd call it, under the rules that you think are incompatible with the subject matter, with the title of the bill... I mean, the title can be changed, too. So here's the question: why didn't you apply the procedure proposed by the Legislative Office, which was proposed by the legislator? This is a clear reference to the deletion from the text of the Act of Law which are, I would say, loosely related to its main topic. And you denied the whole thing. What will be the result of this? What are you talking about? Really? That Poland should be branded on the European Union arena? What are your motivations? I don't understand it because it's logically inconsistent. The proposal of the Legislative Office is logical. And a second question for you, à speaking of what someone here has said, pea and cabbage. You've told me what you've said. I do not know whether it was the opinion of the rapporteur of the committee or your internal appearances to say something about the faculty of certain institutions in Poland. Like what? Constitutional Court, NIK, Government, Supreme Court Chamber, Sejm. And where do these institutions appear in the text of this law? What were you talking about? About your political beliefs? Is that how the committee's rapporteur behaves? Now explain to the House what you meant. Where is the Constitutional Court mentioned in the text of the Act? Because you referred to it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u28	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am sorry that Senator Czerwiński did not listen to the beginning of my speech, where very briefly, but also in a condensed way, I said what EU law is about, which we are implementing in our law. I also said that this is a directive that came into force in 2018, and the Polish government had quite a long time to prepare this implementation. For what reason do I speak about the Constitutional Court, the rule of law in the country? For such a reason, Senator, that I have the right as a senator to discuss the consequences of bad legislation, to anticipate their further consequences. And I have the right to express my opinions, my opinions, just as you have the right to express yours. I am not insulting you, I am talking about what I see every day, I am talking about the failure of the Polish government to comply with the law. And you will not deny that there is no such decision by Matthew Morawiecki, who would not have been consulted in Nowogrodzka before. You can't deny that. You will not deny that the Law passes through the Seym with your fingers and Members have forgotten that, according to the Constitution, they are the law and not the government. The government presents projects which, after a meaningful debate, discussion, consultation establishes the Sejm and checks and improves what is bad, the Senate. There is no longer this role of the Sejm, but we will not allow the Senate to play its part. And for this reason, you know, this is not the problem of Senator Magdalena Kochan, but the problem of Mateusz Morawiecki, as his ministers prepare draft laws to be adopted despite being incompatible with the principles of legislation, correct legislation. And I'll tell you more: if you excuse me because I asked this question during the committee's deliberations, waiting for some meaningful answer from the ministry, that it's time that the COVID, that there are 2,000 reasons why... But I heard one answer: because the Government Legislature Center doesn't see the trouble, it doesn't see the problem. And, it's like the Government Legislating Center doesn't see a problem in breaking the right legislation, and I already see a huge problem in it, a huge problem, because that means that government lawyers are breaking the law or having a disrespectful attitude towards it. Are you smiling? It's not funny to me, nothing. This is a problem that we will really have the biggest problem in Poland, the biggest problem, because we have stopped respecting the law. The government says, "You can't publish judgments of the Constitutional Court because we don't like them so much. Mr. President says, "Oh, I'll pardon myself." [[Mr. Marshal, could your rapporteur please answer the questions as to whether I should repeat them...]] [[You'll be able to repeat it as soon as the senator finishes.]] You asked me the question: why I used the words... I mentioned the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court. You don't see any connection to this bill, and I do. Because in this document, like in the lens, there's a concentration of disregard for the law by the rulers. That's why I talked about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u30	Thank you, Senator. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, ask...]] In a minute. Okay? [[Of course.]] Because Senator Alexander Swed is waiting in line.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, one of the questions I'd like to ask here is already asked by Senator Czerwinski. Of course, we all have the right to express our views, only that the debate serves to express our opinions, we can, of course, express these opinions in the questions asked. And the rapporteur should present a report on the committee's meeting, present the clou of this law, tell what it is about, what is the amendment about, and possibly what was the course of the committee's meeting. I'd like to ask Senator Kleina here. On the one hand, there are allegations that it has been nearly two years since the government was able to deal with it, and on the other hand, that this amendment is now rapidly entering. Also in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau... I would like to quote again: the law passed by the Sejm at its fifteenth meeting on 24 July Sejm print no. 430 entered the Marshal of the Sejm on June 15th, which was nearly 2 months ago, so this mode was not so fast, extraordinary. But why are you making these allegations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u32	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr Senator pointed out just a moment ago that the rapporteur should inform himself about the work of the committee and not about his opinions, so the question of what my opinions are on this issue can simply be mentioned in the debate. or out of the sitting room. I am the rapporteur of the committee, who has clearly established what I have said. Once again, I would like to say with all my power that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance did not even have doubts about this matter. Of course, there were separate votes, but in principle there was no doubt. As regards the fact that such a procedure, with a stabilising expenditure rule, should not happen here, that this case, since it is important for the government, for the Minister of Finance, should not be included in the Posting of Workers Act, should not be combined with a law which implements the provisions of the European Directive. It's like the main charge and the main point in this case. Once again, with all my power, I would like to say that our committee, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, has always dealt with a stabilizing expenditure rule with representatives of the Ministry or Ministers of the Ministry of Finance, talking about the need for change, amendment, etc. At no time was the committee informed of the intention that it would de facto lead to the dismantling of this law on the stabilisation of expenditure rules, even on the basis of a law which concerns a completely different area, namely the posting of workers and the implementation of the European Directive. That's the main charge. If the government sees the need to debate the problems of the budget, then this is the place in the around budget bill. We also talked about this at the committee meeting, it is possible to prepare whether it could be prepared. Once again, I want to say yes: we understand that by the end of September the government must present a draft budget to the Sejm for the next year. I think the deadline is until the end of September. and must submit it in accordance with the applicable rules. There must be concern in the government, but we don't know that, because there was no possibility of discussing this at the committee meeting, because also on this issue, i.e. the government represented the Minister for Social Affairs and Family Affairs, not the Minister of Finance, on the issue of stabilising the spending rule. The finance minister didn't get to the meeting until today, at the request of the committee, not mine. The finance minister is at the meeting today, and he's probably gonna explain it, except I'm gonna be listening to that speech from the floor upstairs. That's where I'm gonna sit, but that's not gonna mean ignoring the Minister of Finance. I'm just gonna listen to these explanations from the place I've been assigned by the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u34	Thank you. Does Senator Czerwinski want to ask you another question? [[Of course, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u35	I am, I admit, somewhat surprised by the fact that the person who teaches the Constitutional Tribunal, the NIK, the government and the Supreme Court about how the law is to be applied does not exercise this right itself, at least in this respect, which concerns the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Another is the role of the Senator rapporteur, and another is the role of the Senator who speaks in the discussion and then presents his views. That's basic. If you can't tell the difference, then that's the problem. Well, that's the second question. Where is the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, etc.?? It's not in that text. As far as my first question is concerned, you have clearly deviated from the answer. I asked you why you didn't apply the procedure proposed by the Legislative Bureau, which is a way of averting these, let's call it sensitive regulations. Sensitive in your opinion You just turned down the entire bill. What will be the result? Well, you're proposing not to bring this law into legal circulation. As for the smile, I'll admit, it's been a long time since I've heard that phrase. I don't think there's ever been anything like this in this room. That the government's lawyers or lawyers are violating the law. Well, I don't think even the lawyers in this room would have signed off on that statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. Does the senator want to answer? [[I'll be brief.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u37	The debate on why we reject this law, why it was proposed to reject it, was also held during committee deliberations, Senator. Maybe it wasn't as accurate, deep and as long as the one we're running in this room right now, but I've been reporting it. During the deliberations of this committee, my words criticized the Government's Legislative Center were also made. They did not find the correct answer from the Minister who was there. So I was reporting on what was going on during the committee's deliberations. Moreover, our justification for the motion to reject the bill was absolutely parallel to what you just heard, although perhaps a little shorter. And as for the consequences... That's the question to the government. Why does the government accept such unconstitutional legal structures that reach us and not worry about their consequences? It is because the Sejm and the Senate have already recognized as facade institutions. He thought he could afford it. This isn't the first time it's actually connected to an impossible bill. It's always been there, so it's still a method. Expenditure rule in the Posted Workers Act? Ask government representatives how they imagine further lawmaking. I think they should prepare this implementation of EU law in the right way. We will gladly vote on this proper implementation. We will hold a debate and include it in the Polish legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u38	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Stanisław Szwed is with us, but there is also the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Piotr Patkowski. In this respect, both ministers have the right to speak and both can then be asked questions. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will return to the main presentation of the implementation of the 2018 European Parliament Directive, which amends the 2016 Directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, the posting of workers in our country. This is the main objective of this directive. And before the details, about this directive... Because those who have been working on this European law for many years, e.g. over this directive After all, this directive was negotiated for the previous government. They know that this matter is very difficult and complicated and that the revision of this directive has been quite turbulent. Let me just remind you in a nutshell, not to take the time, that the so-called was implemented in this case. Yellow card procedure. 11 countries came forward with this procedure. And it was usually in the European Parliament that, after such a procedure, the European Parliament withdrew from adverse changes. Well, in this case, unfortunately, that didn't happen. Parliament continued to work on this directive. One of the main problems that this has caused, which is currently excluded, because it is already in another directive, in the so-called. mobility package, it was transport. It was as if the main reason for the whole dispute that was going on in the European Parliament between our country... And not only because, as I said, 11 countries participated in this, in general countries which later entered the European Union, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The main, you can say, affected in the case of this driver directive was our country, because we are the largest group in terms of drivers who drive, enter and provide transport. That was one of the reasons. Therefore, after the adoption of the Directive in June 2018, in November our country, together with Hungary, filed a complaint against the Court of Justice. And that's what's going on in front of the tribunal of justice. There was a declaration before the outbreak of the COVID epidemic that it would be decided before... well, it didn't happen. The epidemic has led to the absence of this judgment, and therefore the work on the implementation of the directive has been delayed in some way. But the first project that came out of our ministry was last December. And in this respect, I answer the consultation questions here, there was a six-month period, I would say, a consultation, both with the workers' side and with the employers' side. And, which is worth noting, employers were definitely on our side, on the government side. The unions were on the other side, they thought that these rules were more favourable to the workers. Therefore, those decisions which were based on the rules. Here, too, one of the senators spoke of the moment the project was sent to the Sejm. He hit it in June. And that is, like, the main message that the government has put forward, namely the implementation of the directive amending the directive on posted workers. Well, the main changes are that at the moment, in accordance with the current rules, the employer of the posting worker must ensure the conditions of the Labour Code, e.g. minimum remuneration. Now this directive will change these rules. They're gonna have to apply all the rules... If the posted worker earns a certain amount, the same amount must also be paid to the staff member. So that's the change. The changes also concern the State Labour Inspection, which will have the opportunity to seek information, obtain data on the functioning of... As I said at the beginning, this directive concerns entrepreneurs who employ workers in our country. In our country today these entities are... those employees who are employed, there are about 31 thousand. So it's not like there's a big problem in our country. The problem is in the solutions adopted by other parliaments which implement these directives. Because there will be the main axis of our dispute or the doubts that are taking place. Today we have such a situation that among the European countries where the deadline was 30 July, the directive... This was adopted in Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Malta, Lithuania and Slovakia. In 3 countries, as in Poland, the work is already completed. These are Austria, Denmark and Finland. Other countries are at different stages of the implementation of this Directive. This is the main part of the amendment concerning the extension and modification of the directive proposed by the government. The second point that comes up in this debate is the question of the amendments tabled during parliamentary work. They were reported to the Sejm and accepted. These corrections are directly related to the coronavirus, and hence... With regard to this discussion, I will say that the only authority empowered to examine and check whether anything is in line with the Constitution or not is the Constitutional Tribunal. Not us, not the senators, not the Constitutional Tribunal. He is the only one who can determine whether or not anything is in line with the constitution. The rules that you have made in your statements clearly meet those situations that are related to COVID. One of the provisions concerns e.g. remote work. Why did he show up here? It appeared because on September 4th, the possibility of hiring a remote job ends. Looking at the work schedule of the Sejm and the Senate, we see that we do not have the opportunity to act more quickly, hence the decision of Members to add this to this bill. Hence the decisions concerning COVID. All these decisions seem to meet the expectations of employers or expectations of workers, improve their situation, allow for the use of shields or other forms of assistance that are linked to the epidemic and require such a special procedure. As far as the budget issue is concerned, you were the Director of the Ministry of Finance at the meeting of the budget committee. We explained the reason for this change by Members at the Sejm meeting. I think Minister Patkowski will explain this further, he will tell you why it was done in such a way. The state budget is being prepared and without these solutions no specific rules can be introduced. These are the decisions that the Sejm has made and which the Senate must consider at the moment. I'm asking the High House to adopt a bill. This applies to the Directive as well as to the amendments to the COVID. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. There is also a Undersecretary of State, Mr Piotr Patkowski. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to respond to the doubts that Senator Lover and Senator Klein have presented. I understand that where public finance issues arise, there are also doubts. These doubts sometimes cause a heated public debate, so it is worth explaining some doubts or inaccuracies. This has already been done in Senate committees, but it is also worth mentioning the relevant arguments here and developing them if they were not, in the opinion of the senators, sufficient. I will start by saying that the change in the expenditure rule we are discussing today has been introduced at the stage of parliamentary work. The case law of the Constitutional Tribunal... Let me refer very briefly to the thread of the correctness and regularity of the legislative process. The Constitutional Tribunal, in its rulings on the correctness of the legislative process, focused mainly on 2 threads. The first is the permissible activity of the Senate at the stage of the legislative process, i.e. which amendments can be tabled and which cannot be notified during the legislative process. The second activity relates to the procedure of proceding certain laws. I am referring here to the Code Laws which should be examined in a specific time regime, not during a day-long session of the Parliamentary Committee. As regards the Public Finance Act, this law in the current case law of the Constitutional Tribunal was not considered to be a code law, and this change under the current case law of the Constitutional Tribunal is not incompatible with the legislative process. It is difficult to conclude from the current Judaism that the principles of correct legislation have been violated here. Of course, the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal is active, dynamic, and this interpretation may change. If, in the view of the senators, the law actually fulfils such conditions, Okay, I'll remind you. A group of senators may, on the basis of the Constitution, request the Constitutional Tribunal to examine whether this change was compatible with the Constitution or not. But at this stage, following the examination of the present Judaism, such a conclusion is absolutely impossible to draw. Therefore, it is difficult for the government here to agree that we are breaking the principles of correct legislation. However, this does not change the fact that, as I have already mentioned, the change that has actually been discussed today may raise some doubts, and I would now like to address these doubts. First line. Senator Kleina mentioned that the government has already changed many times in the so-called mode. a drop-off, stabilizing the spending rule. But please note that, in fact, such a change in the term of office of the rule of law and justice since 2015 has happened once, and that was this year. It was a project introduced by the government after extensive consultation with economic environments and it was an amendment accepted... sorry, change, it was a change accepted by both chambers of parliament, and it met with the approval of both the governing party and the opposition. This change we are discussing today is not a systemic change regarding the stabilisation of expenditure rules. We have actually introduced a change there, which will result in many years, and now we are proposing a change which will only apply to 2021 and will only apply to investment expenditure. It will not be spending on new salaries, it will not be new administrative expenditure, new social expenditure These will be investment expenditure, of which the European Union clearly states that they are the best way to stimulate the economy in times of crisis. Few of this, the experience of the previous crisis, a decade ago, about which we already know today, was much milder than the one we are dealing with now, show that the model used by America at that time was much more effective than that applied by Europe. Europe then coordinated heavy budgetary austerities, and it is the budgetary austerities that make countries like Greece, Italy still unable to recover from economic stagnation. And America survived this crisis in a very good condition, there was an immediate economic reflection, after 2 years. That's why there was no second wave of crisis in America a decade ago, and in the European Union there was because we have organised budgetary austerites here. Today, the European Union has already learned its lesson from that story. She did her homework and said: yes, we have to go the American way, we have to use public investment instead of budget austerity. So we are proposing these investments, and that is only when it comes to loosening this mentioned rule for 2021. Please note one more point. Already now, the European Union after the ECOFIN meeting, but it also says it publicly, proposes that fiscal rules, EU rules... They are not only suspended in 2020 but also in 2021. This is much broader than the amendment we are discussing today. At this point, the European Union forgets the 3% threshold budget deficit, forgets the 60% threshold debt in relation to GDP, which is, after all, not applied by many countries. And we're just proposing to loosen up public investment, and we're not even able to say at this point whether or not we're going to use it. Perhaps... We're only using this tab for the second wave of the Coronavirus epidemic, in case it turns out that this is the second time we have to face some smaller or larger lockdown and if it turns out that our economy needs another financial injection. This is being introduced by the government preventively, in the event of a situation that we are not now able to predict and which we are unable to prevent. Because it would be a situation independent of us. The responsible government must anticipate such situations and be ready for them. That's why it's so different. Maybe she's actually too fast, maybe it's time to talk about her longer, but the coronavirus doesn't give us the right time to talk about her. Today, the coronavirus requires a decision from us. Right here, right now. Nor can I agree that this change is not being discussed with the financial markets. The Ministry of Finance regularly, at least several times a month, meets with major economists of the most important financial institutions, with all economic journalists, we talk and regularly present the state of public finances and try to present it so that this picture is as complete as possible. And one last thing. 'Cause it's best to talk about the facts. the financial year 2020 and 2021. As far as 2020 is concerned, we are still planning a budgetary amendment. I find it difficult to agree with the allegation that this amendment was due in July and will be in autumn. The revision of the budget bill is not a requirement that the government must fulfil in one month or another, because that's how he came up with it. The revision of the budget law is done when it is really necessary. The budgetary situation after the spring months was good enough, and it is still good that we can do this amendment calmly in the autumn once we have the fullest picture of the economy. We say that this year there will be a deficit around PLN 100 billion. We've spoken many times. Not on the Senate forum But it is worth repeating that out of these 100 billion zlotys, about PLN 50 and 60 billion will be financial consequences directly related to COVID, and 40 billion will be funds not for the direct fight against COVID, but for investment expenditure that stimulates the economy. You can't see this 100 million as a hole in an irresponsible government policy, as some people here are trying to talk about it. That's 100 billion that's our financial cushion for the future, High Izbo, that's how you see it. This is the money now spent so that there will not be a second, even worse wave of economic crisis in 2 and 3 years. With regard to the financial year 2021, we reiterate the declaration that we will then want to propose consolidation of public finances. Whether this consolidation will be 3% budget deficit? It's too early to tell. I'm sure we'll want to go that way. Look at this. The EU says forget about 3% of GDP deficit next year. And we want to go in this direction, and yet we do not want to stop public investment, which is the best remedy for the economic crisis. This is the main reason for this change in the preparation of a financial cushion for 2021, while at the same time seeking consolidation of public finances. This is a holistic picture of the government's plans and the Ministry of Finance. Of course, the senator's right. Those bonds we're pulling now, we're gonna have to pay off. We are fully aware of this, even we know that it will be 2025, 2026. It will be years difficult for the economy, for public finances. We are not yet able to say who will rule, but I assure you that, as a government, we are already planning a budget not only for 2021 or 2022, but we are looking at this overall expenditure. Each draft law has an assessment of the impact of the regulation, which has financial implications for 10 years. Believe me, at this point in the case of every bill we do not look at these issues so much in the future and next year, of course we do, but we are most interested in what will be 5, 6, 7 years from now, when these bonds that we are now issuing for the crisis will have to pay back. I guarantee you that we have that in mind, and in the case of every draft bill, if there's any doubt that we'll be able to afford to pay off those bonds that we're now issuing... I guarantee that the Ministry of Finance asks such a question to every applicant of such a project and takes this into account in its forecasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I've got Senators registered... I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Minister Swede. I mean... The Minister has already partially raised the matter which I wanted to touch earlier in the question, namely the criticism of the directive, of what is happening to it. And the government and parliamentarians, including the Civic Coalition, the Civic Platform, I, too, have criticised the changes in the directive. It's a good thing there's a complaint. I would like the Minister, if he had the opportunity, to bring us not only this state, because you said that for now it was as if it were hanging in the court of justice, but also what you were critical of. And second question. I would like to ask, referring to the previous thread of our debate today, whether the Minister, also as a Member and a long-standing parliamentarian, has been familiar with us for perhaps two decades... How do you justify it and whether you accept it or not? is this law making changes that are not entirely related to this law and its subject matter? How do you feel about that? Do you accept that there should be provisions in this law such as Article. 4, Article 5, Art. 11, Art. 6, Art. 10, Art. 12, i.e. all those provisions which the Senate Legislative Office has found to be non-constitutional, breaking the rules laid down in the provisions of the Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u44	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Just a little bit, 'cause I already talked about it. As regards the complaint to the Court of Justice, it follows from the information we have at the moment that the complaint was filed in October 2018, the last hearing took place on 3 March this year and since then... Well, the case is suspended right now. As I said, it was anticipated earlier that the decision would be before the outbreak of the pandemic. Well, there's no such decision today, we're waiting for a final decision. We were picking up... One of the main allegations was the burden on service providers that we are, and thus reduce competitiveness. And that was our advantage when it comes to our employees posted to other countries. As I say, it works the other way than what we are discussing today, i.e. the issue of workers who are posted by foreign companies to our country. As far as this first question is concerned, I have already explained that the reasons for the amendments tabled by Members of the Sejm were the issue of epidemics and procedures in the Sejm. If we do not have the opportunity to hold Sejm and Senate meetings in the near future, then, of course, if there are demands from entrepreneurs, employees, so that these solutions can continue to function... Well, that's why it's a decision. The point is that we can use both the crisis shield, the financial shield, and in this case even remote work, which we can continue to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u46	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Good morning. Dear Minister, I've been an entrepreneur for many years. And to be honest, I'm shocked. It seems to me that this directive is completely unfavourable, because we hear that it imposes new obligations on Polish companies, which are in a dramatic situation during the pandemic period and are fighting for survival, so any additional obligation is an extremely unfavourable situation for them, Minister. Not much, we also hear that this directive will cause Perhaps I'm wrong, explain it to me, Minister. So the question is: what is the purpose of this, what is the benefit of this? I'd like you to be kind enough to answer me. I can assure you that at the moment they are analyzing this and listening to us entrepreneurs I've known for many, many years. My second question for you, Minister. All countries have left us about posted workers, especially the Visegrad Group countries, because I think about them. And as you know, all of you have written on the banner that you are even leading in this Visegrad Group. So my question is, like you. If you couldn't build the so-called. blocking minority on posted workers Do you want to build such a minority in very serious matters? And they'll be waiting for us in a minute. This is, for example, a matter of defending Europe's resources in confrontation, I remind you... in relation to the rule of law, because it has already become a fact. And then there's the third question. By the Act on Posted Workers, it is worth recalling the institution, which is to seek the interests of employees, to control all bodies that employ employees in Poland. I mean, Minister, the State Labour Inspection I've been working with forever. The State Labour Inspection is still underfunded. New responsibilities are being shifted to it, new tasks are being transferred to it, and money isn't there. So my question is, how do we want to fight to get the workers treated decently? If we, as parliamentarians, want to tell workers, looking them straight in the eye, that their rights will be respected, then we must spend more money on the State Labour Inspection. Finally, all transport companies from our country that conduct business in the European Union, throughout the European Union, are disgusted by the attitude of the Polish government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u48	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u49	Mr. Senator brought up a few threads. As far as this last question is concerned, concerning the Transport Directive, I would like to mention the so-called. the mobility package that was adopted in the European Parliament at the end of July. This Directive will enter into force on 2 February 2022, this is the transitional period. Until then, this will work under the rules that apply today. The directive we are talking about here, I have already mentioned it. We used the so-called. yellow card procedure. Our country and Hungary voted against this directive and 4 countries abstained, which means that in fact 6 countries were against the directive. She was modified, among others. this transitional period has been introduced. At first it was mentioned that it would enter into force immediately in 2018, but introduced this 2-year transition period. The so-called "introduction" was also introduced. a synchronization clause. As far as subcontractors are concerned, these changes have also been introduced through the initiative of our government. As regards control issues, labour inspection issues, the labour inspection is not subject to the government. It is an institution subject to the Sejm, so its budget is determined by Parliament. So much for funding. In this respect, the European Parliament will play a very important role. Work. This is a new unit that will support these actions in terms of compliance with labour law, including those relating to drivers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u50	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u51	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask... I mean, first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that Minister Patkowski started a debate that we could not ask, if I remember correctly, at the last Senate meeting, when we asked the Minister of Finance to present to the High House the state of public finances. This invitation was not accepted. Minister Patkowski explained to us what the current state of finance is and what the state's intentions are, of course, in a short form, but he did so during the examination of the agenda item, which concerns the amendment of the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws. And that's a statement of fact. My question is this: does the Minister agree with this statement that the amendments tabled during the parliamentary legislative procedure should remain in connection with the draft submitted by the applicant in the Seym, and that this link should not only have a formal but also substantive dimension, namely that the specific amendments relating to the project should have a proper relationship with its content in order to modify the original content of the project? Do you agree with this view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u52	There you go. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I already answered this question. I told you, this...]] [[I'm sorry, but I didn't address Minister Swede. That was a question for Minister Patkowski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u53	Thank you. Indeed, Minister Swed answered that question, so it's my turn now. I understand that this is a quote. from one of the rich judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. However, I would like to point out that both our constitution and the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal allow the so-called. Extraordinary situations. This means that in a situation where the Polish state or state of public finances are at any risk, certain rules can be applied to match the current socio-economic situation. Therefore, because for several months we have actually been working on both chambers of parliament on laws related to COVID either directly or indirectly, but to a high degree. At the moment, we believe that all the changes and all the amendments concerning the fight against the COVID epidemic are in line with what your senator has said and are linked to, because they are related to, the fundamental objective with which the Polish state is facing at this point, that is to say, the fight against the effects of the COVID epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u54	Thank you very much. [[Just ad vocem, Mrs. Marshal. I've had more...]] Do you want to ask, Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u55	Yes. I would just like to say that this reply, Minister, absolutely confirms to me that I was right when I applied for the rejection of these laws at first reading. You confirm all my farthest and reluctantly accepted suspicions about how the Polish Government treats today's legislation. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: If I may answer... Well, thank you, then.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My questions are addressed to Minister Swede. Mr. Minister, three short questions. One, I'd like an explanation. But I don't think it's just me. This will result from the possible implementation of the proposal of the family committee and social policy, i.e. the rejection of this law. What would happen then? Because as far as the budget committee's proposal is concerned, we already know. The finance minister explained it to us. Question two. This directive, which Poland opposed, is a great cause. Did we, when we applied against this directive, also Isn't that called a "prosecution"? So she doesn't come into force until she's processed by the TSUE. And the third question: is there any possibility, but already in implementation, i.e. the introduction into the Polish legal system of this directive, of relaxing its rules? I don't think there is, but explain. Because while the regulations applied in Poland to foreign workers, I understand, do not affect our position, it is worse with regulations that will be introduced in other countries in relation to Polish workers. Do we have any influence on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u58	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I answer from the end. Of course, what we are implementing today has no impact on our economy, because the number of workers I have talked about and who are posted to our country is at a level of thirty-seven thousand. So it doesn't have a direct impact. In the opposite case, i.e. the posting of our employees, we are already talking about a group of about 650 000 workers. Now the individual parliaments are implementing these directives, based, of course, on the grounds that we have been talking about, i.e. equal pay, equal working conditions, etc. And we will keep track of how this is being resolved in other countries' legislation. Information, that is, information, is also very important. And among others. This is also the purpose of the European Office for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Work so that our employers are fully aware of the laws that apply in the country, so that they are not exposed to the country... Today we know that the Transport Directive is not yet implemented, and some countries already apply strict rules on our drivers, for example. in the field of control. Such cases happen and these cases are brought before the tribunal, but there is no settlement at the level of the European Parliament. So the other way is much more unfavorable for us. Well, of course we're in a different situation right now. We will see how the EU Court of Justice will approach this when it comes to COVID-19 when it comes to epidemic issues. This is the first case. As for security, I will not answer directly, because here the coordinator is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I think that all possible factors have been used, so to speak. An action has been brought and the action is dealt with by the Court of Justice of the EU. If the implementation of this directive were to shift, if it were rejected, we would of course have to re-establish this directive in the Polish Parliament. I find it difficult to tell what the period of entry into force would be. The European Union has the right to implement proceedings against our country, but worse, employers who are posting workers to us would then have no legal basis and would have to act unlawfully. Well, I'm talking about the old directive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u60	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal, I, if I may, will address Minister Patkowski. We will ask you, Minister, in turn, so that you, as a representative of young people, can tell us something about these matters as well. Minister, I would like to say with great joy that for the first time in five years I have heard here words that are, so to speak, good not only for me but also for the Republic of Poland. The point is that you're talking about one of the most important, most fundamental things. That's how I feel about it. There are investments. Minister, you should be very commended. I understand you weren't just talking about public investment. You have only mentioned public investment, but I understand that as a country, as a government and as a parliament, we will promote all investments, both private and public. The lessons from the previous crisis you mentioned show that those who invest feel less in the crisis, and those who do not invest in it feel the crisis more strongly. And that's why I'm signing what you said. Minister, I am sure you understand what we are talking about, but you do not need to defend the party line, which has no meaning from the point of view of Poland. Please answer me the question of what has happened to prevent what concerns the spending rule, the broadly understood finances... One could say this: listen, we have to change the rule, because this has happened, this and this, the approximate amount of debt relative to GDP will be this and this, and there will be so much beyond the budget. What prevented expenditure and finance issues from being dealt with on a separate track in a separate law under a quick procedure? It could have been done at the same time, Minister, without adding it to another bill. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to ask you as a young generation man for something. Please don't go this way. It is not that the Parliament of the Republic, including the Senate, invites you to discuss, only wants to criticize you. We want to talk about what the state of finance really looks like, what we should be doing. If a fast path is needed, I declare that we will respect this fast path. Please also note that we will criticize certain solutions, that we will identify other options. And please don't stick to laws that have nothing to do with the spending rule. Well, of course you can make a conclusion... I already told you yesterday, Minister, that we can conclude that anyone we send to Mars will be protected from coronavirus infection. Well, you can draw that conclusion. That's why I'm asking that everything about finance, what's related to finance, be processed as quickly as possible. Of course, if the ministry and the government need it. But without the theory that what you're doing is consistent with the constitution and other legal acts. I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, it's too long a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u62	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u63	Thank you. There are three threads here. The first comment is that, as far as these investments are concerned, this is the guideline of the Minister of Finance, Minister of Kościński, who said that we are prohibited from talking about 38 million taxpayers. We're talking about 38 million clients that the Ministry of Finance works for, hence my approach. These are mainly the guidelines of both my bosses, i.e. the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. As far as private investment is concerned, of course we are also thinking about it. I'm talking about public investment because it's in my domain as far as my responsibility at the Ministry of Finance is concerned. But the Minister responsible It's gonna sound a little scary. Mr Sarnowski is working together with the Ministry of Development and other ministries on regulations to stimulate private investment, which, as we know, will be weaker this year and next. It is natural that private investors in times of crisis are afraid to invest. We understand this, which is why we will want to make such concrete proposals to private investors this autumn, on how to improve these private investments so that they go evenly with public investment. So that here we fully agree. As for this question, why did we stick it to this bill, and we didn't follow the normal path, I'm really seeing two questions here. The first question: why didn't we do it in this May-June amendment of the SRW, with which we came here and which followed the so-called. normal mode. The answer is simple, Mr. Senator: because we didn't have full data yet, such as we didn't know until July. When in July we sat down to budget assumptions already for 2021 and tax revenues flowed to us, which we couldn't possibly know in May, we knew. ♪ Only then ♪ The maximum full picture of the budgetary position for this year and the next. At the moment when we collected this data, we could determine what space we have for consolidating public finances and what space we have for public investment next year. That's why we didn't get out of this in May, then we didn't have the picture of the public finances we have now. The second question: why, since we had the full picture, did we not follow this normal legislative path, but did we do it as part of the parliamentary amendment? As we say, we here as a government do not see any contradiction with the principles of legislative technology, but I do not hide that we care about time. We will soon come here not only with an amendment to the budget law, but also with a draft budget for 2021. The rules for the construction of the state budget say that certain things must already be adopted by both chambers of parliament so that they can be included in the draft budget law for next year. Therefore, without this change, we could not submit this budget, as required by the situation of public finances, and with what economic policy the government is proposing to pursue. That's my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u64	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask more?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u65	Minister, I'll ask. I will not enter into an interesting debate, but I think that it is needed, will be held at a meeting of the budget committee at which I hope You're gonna show up. I have this question: should I understand, Minister, that the addition of an amendment to the spending rule, in terms of time and deadline, could only be done by adding this to this bill? Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u66	If we want to be able to start work in both chambers in September on the draft budget bill for next year, then yes, this was the last time we could make this amendment so that it could be included in the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u67	That's really the last sentence. Minister, you're in total error, but you're already on break, if you don't mind, I'll tell you. You're in total error of timing and ability to achieve the purpose you're talking about. I think the goal is ours, you and ours together, and the way to it may be completely different. So that I don't take the time, I'm gonna talk about it at break.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u68	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Jolanta Hibner to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u69	Thank you very much. I have a question for Minister Swede. Today, at the moment, we are considering a law that implements the Posted Workers Directive. Investment expenditure that stimulates the economy has been inserted into this law. Will you supervise these investment expenditures, whether your units will carry this out, or the units under the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy? Will it be realized, or will it be realized? Who's gonna supervise this? I ask because we have experience from yesterday when expenditure related to purchases, printing and storage and the disposal of election cards for elections that did not take place were included in the Health Care Act. Are such expenses, so serious amounts we are to have thus entered in the law, while Are they related to a completely different target? Are you going to do this? Will you carry out these expenses assigned to you, with some sort of translation, those investment expenditures that stimulate the economy? Who's gonna do this? Are you gonna supervise this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u70	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u71	Mrs Marshal, Mrs Senator, our ministry will of course oversee the implementation and implementation of the directive, as well as, if the High Senate adopts the COVID solutions, those provisions concerning COVID about remote work and other solutions that work today. Other topics that are also in this bill and which the Minister has already mentioned are the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. [[I'm still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u72	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u73	So we're all going to understand that right now we're going to be proposing this type of law, in which apart from the basic tasks that are imposed on government units, it's going to be one thing for each other: once a unit is going to write something into your bill, and once you're going to write something into another law, because there's a need. Yes? Is this how it's supposed to work now? Are we gonna make the law that we're gonna re-enter different points, just like it's gonna work for us along the way? Is that how we're supposed to understand it? Because according to what you're saying, you're not going to implement these... you're not going to supervise these investment expenses, you're going to be doing this to other entities. So you're not gonna say that, that's what you decided. And I'd like to ask if that's what this procedure is going to be now, that this law is going to be, so to speak, pushed alternately. Something from one law to another, which means we're gonna mess it up like this. Is that how it's gonna look now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u74	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u75	We have already explained, Senator, that the situation is extraordinary, related to COVID-19. Therefore, these solutions proposed by the Members in the amendments concern an emergency situation. So, since we know that we are not in a position to prepare another solution at the moment, for example to postpone the duration of the provisions relating to COVID-19, Members have proposed this in this law. And that's where the decision is from. It's hard to predict what's gonna happen in a few months. We assume the situation will stabilize. Therefore, these solutions that we are introducing are intended to give us the opportunity to respond to the current situation. If we have a chance... I know that we will address the High Senate with an amendment on, for example, It's to give you the possibility of an extra welfare allowance, because the deadline's almost up. If we don't bring it in, we won't have that opportunity. And it's our shared responsibility whether we do it like this or not. If we don't do this, we won't have the opportunity to do that. from September, if there are powiats that will be excluded from school classes To introduce this extra welfare allowance. Well, these are emergency situations, and we're working in an extraordinary way, too. So here I'm sort of explaining it to the High Senate, and we're asking you to accept these solutions because of the special situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka You're welcome. Also with a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u77	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the fact is that Poland is the largest exporter of services to the European Union. We're posting an average of half a million... We've got half a million postings. Of this, not even half are drivers, given that there are no specific international transport solutions yet. So that really only cabotage transport counts for posting, and the 2018 Directive does not only apply to drivers, because it applies to all postings. It's a supplement to make it clear. 'Cause you only focused on the drivers. And even though this posting is linked to difficult procedures and huge restrictions, Polish entrepreneurs, but also our government, asked other countries to whom our employees are posted to make it as early as possible. Not before 31 July 2020, when the implementation of the EU Directive of 2018 in the Member States has expired These Member States have prepared their solutions to do so much earlier, so that Polish entrepreneurs can prepare for this posting, do not make mistakes and, at the same time, do not suffer huge penalties which are imposed by states, especially by Western European countries. Our project, the project of our implementation, was already prepared on 28 January 2020. Let me repeat: 28 January 2020 This project is a clean project for posted workers only and is no different from the project submitted a few days ago to the Senate, which has also included non-constitutional articles, among others. concerning the COVID and, above all, the spending procedure. I would like to know at the time what has been going on with this directive during this six-month period, with this project, since there has not even been a serious public consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u78	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! As far as the public consultation is concerned, I have here a list of organizations that spoke about this law. And these are all representative organizations within the Council of Social Dialogue as well as the Association of Labour Laws, the Polish Association of Personnel Management, the National Chamber of Commerce, the Polish HR Forum, the Association of Employment Agency, the Polish Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Business Services Leaders, the Association of Labour Inspectors of the Republic of Poland, the Workers' Union of the State Labour Inspection and other entities that participated in the consultations. It was widely consulted. We have also extended this consultation period due to complex matter as regards directives. We are also preparing within the European Office for Foreign Affairs. Work for a broad information campaign on the implementation of the directive. The State Labour Inspection, which prepares for both information and information, plays a major role here... It is worth noting here that in the case of this directive there must be translations in foreign languages concerning workers employed in our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u81	Minister, there are 650,000 employees posted a year... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: The other way, from our country...]] I'm talking about it by looking at our side, of course, because I'm thinking about our business. Tell me: how much less will these workers be after the entry into force of this directive? I'm sure you have an analysis. How do you estimate that? How will it hit the Polish economy? Specifically, it is the employment of Polish workers. How much less of these employees are leaving? And the other thing. You said that this agreement could no longer be renegotiated, but... Of course, if Parliament rejects it, it will have to be renegotiated. That's how I understood you. Well, if Parliament rejects it, we'll have to do something about it, I understand. There's gonna be a legal gap, and we're gonna have to negotiate a new deal... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Well, that's a pity, because I was hoping that Senator Czerwiński would vote against this disadvantage for Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u83	As for... In the case of the rejection of this law by the Polish Parliament, we must re-direct the same project to the Chamber of our Parliament. There is currently no possibility of renegotiating the directive. [[So you have to direct the same project?]] Yes, sir. [[I see. But then it would be passed by the Polish Parliament later.]] Well, he would have been passed later, but... [[I see. So we're gonna take advantage of something, we're gonna buy time.]] In this case, what you're talking about, Mr. Marshal, about these 650,000 employees... Regulation in other countries, i.e. where such solutions are already adopted, will have a major impact on them. In France, Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic. Of course, we are now constantly supplementing information on which countries have already implemented this and which are in the process of implementing the Directive. They must, of course, be based on the implementation directive, but we know that sometimes, as they say... [[Minister, I understand. You can't name a number. But that'll reduce the number of employees, right?]] Today we can't tell, but of course... [[So we can't tell?]] ...there's always a threat like that. If the rules are tightened, the number of workers leaving may be smaller, but we can't predict that. As I say, today these rules are being implemented in other European countries and entrepreneurs... Well, it's still worth waiting for the court of justice to decide... [[It's obvious...]] ...because if, at some point, the Court of Justice recognised our reservations, then the situation with regard to the directive itself changes. [[Sure. Thank you, Minister. But for something, Germany and France pushed for this directive. Hence my questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u84	Thank you very much. That's it? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] Thank you very much. The list of questioners has been exhausted. Due to the failure of the transmission system, I manage a 15-minute break. After the break, there will be a discussion at 1:15 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 56 to 13 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u85	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will start with such an internal call so that during the debate we can discuss the point that is written in the protocol, in the programme, and not on other issues. Unfortunately, it is beginning to dominate here, causing a serious waste of time and unnecessary nerves. Let me remind you that today there is no discussion on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services as regards the directive. We have a debate, in short, about the implementation process. On this occasion, I want to highlight two things that, from my point of view, are extremely important, important. First of all, it seems that we are beginning to have a long, very bad tradition of adding to laws things that are completely unrelated to a particular issue, which are not compatible with it, which are, in some sense, aggressive to a problem that appears in the amendment itself. I will remind you that the COVID Act, Shield 3.0, with more than 120 pages, contained nearly 80 pages not related to COVID at all. That's what happened. In the laws concerning COVID and called shields, and in this case also in implementation, there are issues that are completely unrelated to the matter of the amended laws. It's not true. I want to make it clear to the government. That this is the last chance. The implementation bill... It is known when the Directive was adopted. The implementation bill, as Senator Danuta Jazłowicka said, was ready in January. It could be adopted in February, March, April, May without having to add other issues to it. I will also remind you that the long-standing tradition since Poland is in the European Union was that the directives were accepted as clean documents, i.e. the principle, even the principle, of not sticking to this fundamental issue of implementation of any other content, even seemingly related to it, had to be interpreted densely. In this respect, to make the legislative process clear and clear to the EU institutions in the form of specific legal decisions. So that's my second appeal. After the first one, however, we debate the matter of the law In order for the matter of the law to be properly defined, properly named and relevant to what it should concern. The third point, which is related to those words that have come to my attention, which bothers me. I am aware that case law is changing, but I do not accept a situation where the concept of current case law is applied ad hoc at every opportunity. We need to have a certain practice in this area, to know what the legislative process should look like, and certain departures from this proper procedure should be justified, but we must aim at good, reliable, logical, consistent legislation. I don't accept such reasons all the time that such practice has developed or the case law already permits... I believe that we should stick to integrity and be responsible in this respect, and that whoever is the addressee of a particular law should be able to read clearly with understanding the contents presented by the government or accepted by the Sejm and the Senate. Two key things. I can already see that in the next COVID solutions there will be an attempt to levy sugar tax or add funds to the next government institution. I stress once again: I do not accept this and I already anticipate the situation, calling once again for the legislation in Poland to be clear and clean. There was a question to Senator Magda Kochan, whether we, as a result of one or another, would not lead to a lack of implementation, because we find that what we have received with implementation has a loose connection. No, the Senators of the Civic Coalition here in the Senate do not reject implementation, nor do they reject the directive that was adopted, although we had a huge number of other proposals not adopted in the European Parliament. I was there, I remember, I know that. We reject a specific form and a specific proposal for implementation, and implementation is the responsibility of the government and the government should implement this implementation reliably. I also do not take this opportunity to take note of the conflicting information given by Minister Patkowski, who is no longer here at the moment, that there is a fantastic financial situation that there is no need to revise the budget, but there is a need to change the expenditure rule. It's either one or the other. Well, either we're in some kind of financial trouble and we need to make this budget bill... in short, we need to hurry and prepare, we need to change the spending rules, maybe as a result enter into the over-indebtedness procedure, or there's no other element. I believe that this contradiction is simply gross, disturbing and unacceptable. I would also like to remind you that, on several occasions in the Senate, we have requested not only information about the state's financial situation, but also a procedure to include in the budget those commitments which the Senate has decided on, in the case of COVID laws, Shields 1, 2, 3 etc. We made these decisions, spending money on parental benefits for children up to the age of eight, spending money on helping entrepreneurs, etc., etc. Where's the money now? Stuffed either in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, or in various kinds of other entities, or shifted to the margin of certain financial obligations, for the next time. And then there's the idea that we're about to have the state of public finances organized, we're gonna collect all of this, we're gonna consolidate. Then there is information: perhaps 2023. Absolutely no consent. Public finance is a sensitive element of the state. Clarity, transparency in this matter should not raise any doubts. Whether NBP prints or does not print, should be shown in specific documents, should be public and known. I've been feeling it all along. And that's another example. In the area of public finances, the most important are: lack of clarity, randomness, ad hocity and putting the Senate in a situation of coercion. It's unacceptable from my point of view. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue what Senator Zdrojewski has said so well. In the Polish Senate, Ladies and Gentlemen, a new tradition is born. Those who were in the previous term remember what tradition it was. In the morning, the 600-page bill, and the next day at 12.00, Mr. President signed such a bill. It was a tradition. Quickly, without reading, without discussion or discussion reduced to a minimum. Some analysis, some transparency... Those were traditional things. If you look at the statistics, you can see that we have become the world champion in terms of the amount of rights produced in the previous term, and the world champion in the speed of adoption of laws. And so on. The law on the Supreme Court of the British Isles took two years to establish such a law In Poland they were completed within 2 days. We are good at something in Europe, but I think that is not where we should go. And what today is an example of COVID issues. Well, COVID this is such a pick, it's a word that you can hook everything up to. Even the expenditure rule can be added to the Posted Workers Act and, most importantly, defend it, saying that it is right and logical. I'll tell you more. I'll tell you what Senator Zdrojewski said. We as Senate simply need to use all our instruments and say: Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, we will do our utmost to end this practice. There are laws that tell you how a fast path can be followed. And now I'm going back to what was the subject of the budget committee's meeting. The director is here for the budget committee meeting. Well, the principal was sent, so he came. He answered every question that he had answered. I don't want to criticize him, but he said as much as he was allowed to say. Today we heard a little more. And we would like to say yes, by signing the words of Senator Zdrojewski. One of the basic foundations Many, several of them are the state of public finances. It's like family. A family that has unhealthy finances and a husband cheats on his wife when it comes to spending, he won't survive. I want to tell you that when there are unhealthy finances... One of my colleagues said this: you know, the most beautiful love dies when there's no clean finances in the family. It's in the country anyway. You say: COVID; we save; here 100 billion and here 300; a beautiful program; the Union praises us. I am curious how the Union will read our Posted Workers Act and read there that under the Posted Workers Act the operation of the expenditure rule has been reduced. Well, it has a logical connection. Well, there's COVID, and COVID affects everything. For the rule, for the functioning of the State, etc. So, like he just said, You are beautifully Marshal Borusewicz, we have a state of emergency without a state of emergency. And you're making it worse. Instead of straightening it up, showing purity of intent and actions, you complicate it. Why are you making this so complicated? Because in muddy water, you swim better, you don't show the whole thing. Today, the Minister of Finance has shown a substitute for a thought that I agree with: as much money as possible for investment. But we want to see what the state's foundation for finance looks like, how much for investments, what will be the state of debt at the end, what is the amount of... Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, the question was, what amount will normally not be included in public finances. Well, the minister said, like, 30. When I asked the minister at the break, he said, "Okay, about 50." Small difference, 30 or 50, it doesn't matter. There is a COVID, there are extraordinary actions. How do we work with COVID? Whoever wakes up brings some stuff to the Sejm and adds it to the employee bill. I think yesterday, yeah, yesterday, we were talking about the health bill. Do you remember that, after all, 12 different points have been added that have nothing to do with this bill? And where was the question, where is the question of what Poland will look like when it comes to health care, after COVID and what effects do we have? Also, what concerns finance, because I focus primarily on finance, because at the meeting of the budget committee we talked about the financial expenditure rule... What is the efficiency of the money we spend? How many did we spend? What will be the financial perspective for the next years? How much money is printed? How is the Polish Development Fund supported and supported? And so on, and so on, there's a lot of questions. This cannot be dealt with during the debate when the Minister shows a few numbers, a few facts and a certain direction, because this debate would have to last for two days. I would therefore like to say once again that, as the Senate, we should do everything in terms of using all our powers... If all kinds of things that have nothing to do with these laws are still attached to the substantive laws, then we should review these laws on the 30th day, then important matters should be addressed to the marshal's staff as our own initiatives and simply not discuss laws in which there is a mishmas. The only thing that connects these laws is that the Minister declares that it is related to COVID and we, as part of the COVID activities, should do as I just said. That's why I'm going to vote against this bill. Not because of some parts of it that are worth considering, but in order to complete this disastrous procedure of Law and Justice. In the previous term, it was fast and in 5 minutes all the laws and today everything to one sack, regardless of who, when, what will join it, because the matter with COVID is most important here. Transparency, legibility, strategy for action These are the things that should dominate the proposed laws. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Zdrojewski called for us to talk about a topic that is on the agenda. Well, I will not comply with this request, Mr. Senator, because in this act, like in the lens, things that work improperly, but not only during the COVID, not only, but during this pandemic they increased in such a significant way that... The dot over the Lens turned out to be the Act on Posted Workers and the implementation of EU law into the Polish legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking to Minister Swede, with whom I particularly appreciate cooperation, and she has not been going on since yesterday, we have known each other at least since 2007. Since I remember, we have sat together on the Social Policy Committee in the Sejm and, despite differences of opinion, we have always had one thing in mind: the rule of law is in the first place. That's what happened. I am a little surprised today by the young Minister, whose competence I am not expressing at all. The attitude within which he speaks with complete peace that everything that is in the legal order is constitutional until the Constitutional Tribunal finds that it is unconstitutional You know what I'm saying? And that everything that's related to COVID can be thrown into one bag... So you can add a waste database into one bag, you can insert a criminal code that affects people who are infected with HIV, you can justify the intransparency of orders for thousands, if not millions of Polish zlotys, you can calmly justify an official who ordered something for more than 70 million zlotys without legal basis. We have to act quickly because the COVID, because the state of emergency, because the state of higher necessity, changed by all cases by government representatives. You had to put in a state of emergency, it wouldn't be any legal trouble. You didn't do it. This legal mess is unacceptable. The creation of a House Sejm, through which the papers fly through the office of the illustrious director, to whom something will be handed over, and he will sign it, is unacceptable. You can't do something like that, because listen to me. There's such a thing as decency, it's just that. And since we have sworn on something, we, the senators, us, the Members, remember that we are the legislators and are responsible for our decisions. It is not that 460 Members and 100 Senators are invisible, unknown by name and by name. Because even if it is so that the entire Sejm and the entire Senate will be held accountable for the decision of the previous Sejm and this term, then a thorough historian will see that, however, Magdalena Kochan, in this and that case against the oath, voted as she had to, according to decency. And it cannot be said that posted workers are an excuse for the debate that de facto took place... Debates about what? About the posted workers? No, not at all. On the state of public finances, the spending rule, which we could not ask for at the end of May and June and at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. It wasn't there. The Minister was kind to refuse an invitation, an unprecedented situation so far, unprecedented. It's never been like this. And Minister Swed remembers that, for example. the entire assumptions and the whole ready law on supporting the family and the foster care system It's the easiest thing to say to me, 'cause I did it myself. We brought the Sejm back to the government and it was not processed. Is that possible today? No. Today, according to Minister Patkowski, President Jarosław Kaczyński will issue a decree or regulation and it will apply until the Constitutional Tribunal finds that it is incompatible with the Constitution. That's how we interpret the law. We really forgot what is and what is not a constitution, what is good legislation and what is not good legislation? Have the people who work at the Sejm's Legislative Office changed, the Senate? No. Ask your lawyers how hard it is for them. Ask him. I really don't want to... And this bill is such a real memento mori. Wake up, we must not treat Polish law this way. We have the right to some kind of nonchalant treatment of the law because of history. I've talked about this before. 123 years of history, then for a very long time, until 1989, the law was still imposed by foreign lawmakers. This caused us to say, "They are the power, we are the nation; it is by them that the law is to be cast out." Well, the patriot was the one who knew how to avoid it. But we've been at home since 1989. And if we don't teach ourselves, then we can't teach our citizens respect for the law, for the order we set up so that all of us, the whole community, can just live better, more comfortable. Therefore, out of respect for this right in the debate on posted workers, I strongly object. And I hope, I will not rest, I will urge all my colleagues and colleagues to, in the case of every bill on which the Senate legislators will say that something is not in accordance with the procedure of good legislation, that something is not in accordance with the Constitution. Not prejudicing, because they are not the Constitutional Tribunal, but they will not spoil this right, immediately seeing that it is incompatible with the Constitution To reject such projects at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are dealing with implementation or introduction into our legal order of a directive adversely affecting Poland, for Polish interests. It's clear. The current government has failed to block it, to explain that the principle of free movement of workers should continue in the Union. These kind of interferences are bad. Unfortunately, the current Government of Law and Justice has no allies among the most significant countries of the Union, which have started activities in their own interest, aimed at reducing the number of Polish workers posted outside Poland within the framework of the European Union. These countries are Germany and France. We managed to find a dozen allies, but it wasn't enough. Germany and France have failed to withdraw from the idea of introducing such stricter provisions of the directive, which is hitting the economic interests of Poland. Unfortunately, this situation is a consequence of how Poland, and especially the Polish government, is being treated in the European Union at the moment. The European Union has started the procedure with Article in connection with violations of the law, violations of the Constitution in Poland. 7. This procedure is taking place, which undoubtedly weakens Poland's position in such negotiations. This weakens Polish arguments, weakens the power of arguments of Polish negotiators. Unfortunately, this directive, in fact, in a revised version, different from the one that was at the beginning... At the moment, we are proceeding with the implementation of this directive. I also want to say that to my surprise I stress: to my surprise The trade unions, and in particular the "Solidarity" association, supported this directive. This shows the perspective of the current union leaders. The unions supported it because in the short term it provides a better situation for posted workers. But this directive will reduce jobs. Today, 650 000 workers posted from Poland work in the European Union. So let's say 10%. This will result in an increase in the cost of these work. For some entrepreneurs, it won't pay off. If it's 10% It's going to be 65,000 people. I do not understand why the unions, and especially the union of Solvency and the chairman of this union, Piotr Duda, supported this kind of solution. In 1990, I went to Germany as the president of the Gdansk Region of Solidarity to explain that something such as social dumping is not acceptable. What does that mean? It was then said about social dumping and then it was said that the Polish government should agree to the so-called. Social dumping should be eliminated. Meaning what? Well, raise wages in Poland to the level of German wages. It was not only German, it was also French, but it was especially about Germany. After all, it was known that this was impossible, and besides, if we do this, it will result in the blocking of economic development, the rise in unemployment, etc. Well, that's clear. If the former leaders of the union would look at it as they did today, they would of course support it. But we did not support and therefore gave the government the opportunity to defend itself against this situation. Because if we are talking about social dumping, we must also talk about it, and then I said this: dumping is also capital dumping. With us, wages are lower, a completely different level of development... You're talking about social dumping, I'm talking about capital dumping. You have capital, free resources, and you will, of course, enter our economy. What are they supposed to say? Capital dumping? Aren't we gonna let you in? What Piotr Duda, the union leader, did, who supported this solution, was to do damage to trade unions, because some of them would lose their jobs. That's thinking. really very shortsighted, such that only my backyard matters, well, some extra bonus that I will say: oh, I protected Polish workers from dumping and they have to earn as much as in Germany. Of course, every reasonable person knows what's behind it. This is a very unfavorable directive. Well, in addition to this, the law which introduces the directive implements this directive and should be confined only to the directive, the government has added additional elements which have nothing to do with it. And that's what you've been doing since the beginning of the COVID. Changes to the criminal code, including the introduction of prison sentences for doctors, for medical errors, were added to the COVID laws, which is a scandal. This is where the departure from... Yeah, walking away from the spending rule. Shortcuts? Well, shortcuts, but not like this. Isn't there time to make such a bill about changing the spending rule? No, it's not that. And why are you doing this? Not only because you are in a hurry, but also because you think that we will vote in favour, because this is an EU directive you want to smuggle solutions that do not necessarily cause our applause. And that's what it's done, from start to finish. You have to say stop! I think that if you put in laws, including those of the COVID, changes that have nothing to do with COVID-19, with health, then you have to reject those laws. Do not give in to pressure, do not give in to blackmail. Reject? I mean, people are waiting for money. Well, if you want to help these people, do it properly, don't smuggle in what should be handled differently, in a different mode, without haste. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor in the remote mode of Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u94	Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am very pleased that Marshal Borusewicz raised a very important issue which concerns transport companies. Our country has developed several major industries, including the transport industry, over the last 30 years. I can say that after the furniture industry the second most important industry in our country is the transport industry. Dear Senate, I have always been an entrepreneur and have always tried to talk in our House about substantive matters rather than political ones. Representatives of transport companies Today they listen to us and analyze what we say, so that in the near future they remind us of the various bubbles presented by the government of our country from time to time. Well, the introduction of the mobility package will affect Polish companies very much. As I said at the beginning, it will affect the transport companies in particular. There will be additional burdens for carriers not all companies will be able to cope with. Consequently, this can lead to the bankruptcy of many companies and the loss of work by many people. The rules introduced will also contribute to the decline in GDP. I am pleased that there are two ministers in our meeting. Let me repeat the last sentence: the rules introduced will contribute to the decline in GDP. The mobility package will force companies to adjust their driver's salary. Very much has been said about this by Mr Marshal Borusewicz to the requirements of the country in which the driver will work, in accordance with the provisions of the Code in force in the country concerned. That's what you need to remember. That's what you need to know. For Polish transport companies carrying out cabotage and cross-trade operations, this means paying not only the minimum wage but also all other components of the remuneration that are available to drivers employed in the country where the transport is carried out. These components are not defined in general minimum wage rules in many countries, but in very complex sectoral collective agreements. Already without appropriate software and specialist support, it is not possible to correctly recalculate the minimum wage and the level of difficulty of such settlement after the introduction of the mobility package will increase significantly. Interestingly, companies in countries where the driver's salary is high will not have to focus on meticulous counting, because it will be important that the total remuneration in a given period is greater than that required in the country where the transport is carried out without having to break it down into individual components. An additional reason for the increase in costs in this case will be the lack of possibility to include allowances and lump sums for accommodation in the minimum wage. This means that a driver from a Polish company carrying out cabotage operations in France will have to receive for this period a salary such as a driver from France, and in addition, in accordance with Polish regulations, a diet and a flat-rate stay. For this reason, it is worth to strive for the next 18 months to change the Polish Act on the working time of drivers, so as to reduce as much as possible the increased costs caused by the mobility package, e.g. by settling the driver like a posted worker, i.e. paying everything as a salary without a diet, a lump sum and of course making use of the possibility of tax reduction and contributions for posted workers under existing rules. Now on our side, the Sejm and the Senate, it is to put our right in such a way as to pay the driver so that they do not double their wages, because this will lead to absurdity. You also spoke of this absurdity to Marshal Borusewicz. The driver's salary will double with the same scope of work and will be higher than in other European Union countries and this will make transport companies unable to stay on the market. I will repeat what I was talking about at the very beginning of my speech, namely that the government has prepared a law that can create a better mobility for foreign competitors of those transport companies. Dear Mr Marshal, High Izbo, this implementation of European law is another example of the fact that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki cannot fight European patronism and discrimination against our employees and Polish companies. This is another example of the fact that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki cannot find himself in the European arena. As far as the rights of posted workers are concerned, all countries have left us, even the Visegrad Group countries, and I have spoken to the Minister about this during the questions. How can the state, if they cannot build the so-called? The minority blocking the case of posted workers now wants to build a blocking minority on very serious issues, such as the issue of defending Europe's resources in confronting the rule of law? Besides, how can we afford to introduce other matters which are not only against ordinary political culture but also with all the principles that have ruled in this House into European legislation implementing European law. Also with all the rules that ruled in this House. I specifically said it twice. Thank you for your attention, dear senate. I think the ministers will think about what I said. Polish transport companies are waiting for such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! Allow me to address the most important issues that have been raised during the debate by my predecessors in the Civic Coalition. First line. The essence of this law is the implementation of the Directive of the European Council and of the European Parliament. To be honest, when I listened to the statements of the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Civic Platform who criticized the European Union, I was a little amazed. We implement European Union rules, which are probably not the most beneficial for Poland, but these are the consequences of being in the Union. Let me remind you that this is not only a directive of the European Council, but also a directive approved by the European Parliament. As I recall, there are MEPs of the Civic Platform and the Left... The question is how they behaved in the European Parliament, what Mr Donald Tusk did, who is the head of the EPP Group, the largest in the European Parliament, the group which also approved this directive. It would be good for you, when criticizing, to take account of your responsibility as well. I'm not talking about senators here, I'm talking about the responsibility of the formation you represent. This directive has also been passed through the European Parliament. And if today you think that this directive is not optimal for the Polish economy... As much as Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's government was able to negotiate, so much is negotiated. You must know that, while in the European Union, legislation is sometimes less favourable and sometimes more favourable from the point of view of national solutions. What could be negotiated under these conditions... As Senator Komarnicki rightly pointed out, Poland is one of the leaders when it comes to transport, transport, logistics. There are no sentiments here, there is a certain competition and every country in the European Union is fighting for its own. Did the government negotiate effective? I think it is a proof of the effectiveness of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, his skill and ability to establish a coalition to negotiate money. Mateusz Morawiecki negotiated over 700 billion a few weeks ago. This amount will, of course, be clarified. And, of course, you can enjoy it, but you can also take other things out, say they can take something away from us in the rule of law or if we interpret... Well, I would expect that the opposition of the Civic Platform, senators and Members, as well as the Euro MPs of the Platform It will not wonder how much Poland will lose and how much someone will be able to attack Poland on the international stage. I'd expect you to be supporting the government using the opportunities you have, supposedly gigantic. Because this is not about supporting the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, it is about supporting Poland, supporting Polish entrepreneurs. If you vote against it, it will be an event on a scale of many years, that the Civic Platform is voting in the Senate against European law. I have not checked this, but it would be worth seeing how MEPs of the Civic Platform voted in the European Parliament on this directive. That's the first line. Second line. It's too bad you don't have Senator Lover, 'cause the number of things I'm sorry to say this so hard and unelegantly. The number of nonsense Mrs. Kochan has said is appalling. It is also alarming that Mrs. Kochan is associated with one name, Jarosław Kaczyński. I'll say it like that. According to the Polish constitution, which you are calling for and which you are waving Perhaps it would be worth reading? In the case of any law which has not been challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal, there is a presumption of constitutionality. Any law which is passed by the Sejm and the Senate and signed by your President by law is considered to be a constitutional law. If there are any doubts as to whether it is the President, whether it is the parliamentarians, whether it is the lawyers, then it is possible to raise doubts to the Constitutional Tribunal and wait for it to be settled. And it was like this. Historically speaking, from the beginning, since we function after 1989. That there were different decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. So let us not assume that this or any other law that comes out of Parliament is incompatible with the Constitution. Because it is on the basis of the constitution that we can presume the constitutionality of this law, and the state, if you have any doubts, can turn to the President so that the President It is, as it happens, in the House of the Minister of the President's Office. It has not been signed and referred to the Constitutional Tribunal, either signed and referred it to the Court, or you can refer it to the Constitutional Tribunal yourself, because there is a legal procedure in this matter. Of course, if you question the legality of the Constitutional Tribunal, the legality of the Supreme Court, the legality of the various other institutions, it will be a problem. Because if Mrs. Kochan claims that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, which has established the legality of even the election of the President and the legality of the elections, And that's also being called into question. Well, well, well, Ladies and gentlemen, after all, the same Chamber of the Supreme Court, the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, also stated the validity of the parliamentary elections, the validity of our mandates. So, since Mrs. Kochan is questioning it, it's a question of whether Mrs. Kochan is questioning her mandate. I don't think so, 'cause, as far as I know, he gets a month's salary, he gets a diet, he gets 14,000 lumps... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Dear Mr. Senator, I would very much like to...]] But I'm sorry. Wait a minute, Mrs. Marshal, but I'm very polite, very cultural... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I would very much like to ask... Because these are already ad personam... And here things don't happen.]] But, of course, ad personam. Ad personam, Mrs. Senator, because ad personam also spoke to Senator Kochan, perhaps your Marshal did not hear it. she spoke ad personam about Jarosław Kaczyński. She didn't mean it in general, she said ad personam. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I heard this because I was in session at the time. But please do not refer to the senators ad personam in the speeches, I ask you to do so.]] But, Senator... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I ask you to do so!]] Well, it's hard not to refer to ad personam if someone says something like that. If I say anything, I won't blame you if then Marshal Kaminski or your marshal says, "Senator, you said it, Frost said it, etc.," etc. Well, let's just let it be that way. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, please continue your speech and do not refer to...]] I'd love to, but your marshal is interrupting me all the time. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please.]] Therefore, the question is whether this Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, which you are questioning... Well, if you question this chamber, you'll also question your senator's credentials! Each of you, including your marshal, who is a lawyer... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, could you continue your speech? All I did was point out that there were no attacks on other senators from this podium. Okay, Senator Lover isn't in the O.R., so he can't comment on what you're saying. And I would very much ask you to hold off on your emotions and end my speech. You still have a minute to 14.10. Please continue and do not move.]] But, Mrs. Marshal, you're interrupting me all the time. Then how can I continue? And the fact that Senator Lover doesn't have... Well, it's not my fault she's not here, so to speak. But back to the point... You can come and you can question the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, judgments, only that it has its consequences. And I showed you the absurdity of questioning the legality of the Supreme Court by questioning the legality of the Constitutional Tribunal... Because I'm afraid the state said, "We would have challenged this law to the Court, but the Court is... and that wouldn't be valid." Well, what absurdity would we come to if we questioned the proper functioning of the state's primary organs? That can only be questioned if there are certain consequences. And only in this context I wanted to show it, I didn't mean to insult you. I've never offended Senator Kochan in my life, especially your marshal, so I don't understand these comments. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much, but...]] And now here's the last question, which is... Because here the case is raised that we are adding to the Act on Posted Workers of various kinds other laws, i.e. rules on other activities. Well, it's a matter of some legislative technique that might be appealing, and it might not like it either. Historically, such solutions have been applied in the past, in times and SLDs, and AWS, and the Civic Platform, and Law and Justice. I'm not a lawyer, I don't want to talk about it in detail. This is not the first case. However, today, at a time when we have an extraordinary situation I think we'll all agree on that. The situation of COVID is therefore justified by the rapid process of different solutions. Because our job is to serve people. And really these people. I'm about to make amendments to this bill. It is not interested in what legislative procedure is to be followed. Their interest is that entrepreneurs get specific support for families to receive specific support. And that's the essence, that's the goal. And also in the law, as far as I know... So it is important to have a goal that is designed to lead to certain solutions. May I make three amendments, of course, by asking you... Because I am aware that if the motion of the family committee to reject this law is upheld, these amendments will be lost, because they are voted first on the proposal that goes as far as possible, i.e. the rejection of the law. But perhaps it would be foolish to vote against the European law... I would like to ask you to accept these amendments, 3 amendments. One amendment simply deals with completely legislative, orderly, certain errors that have been caught. She also partially consumes a minority request that has been submitted. So let me hand over this amendment to your marshal. This is not controversial, it is a law amendment that will facilitate the functioning and operation of this law. The second amendment, which I will allow to make, is an amendment concerning the removal of a certain legal fiction with regard to the authorities... about the possibility of notifying taxpayers by visa. We're talking about the National Tax Administration. This is the amendment, you can say, the COVID or relating to certain provisions of the COVID. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It's time.]] The third issue concerns an extension of more than 180 days of the term of care allowance. Because today in the bill it's up to 180 days. We know that the rules... We do not know how the situation of COVID will develop, so we would like these provisions on benefits to be applied also after 180 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u97	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a Polish saying, it is often used in frivolous situations, but I will allow myself to use it here, from this senate tribune, namely: strong only in the mouth. Strong only in the face when it comes to defending national values And Christian values, I'll add on the side There are politicians of Law and Justice. I will not animalize myself here over the defence of Christian values, because all of Poland has recently seen ceremonies in Łagiewniki, showing that politicians of Law and Justice are deeply attached to the sanctity of marriage. But today's debate in the Senate, which we are witnessing, proves how effective the Government of Law and Justice is in defending what he went to power for, defending Polish national interests. Today, in this House, we are discussing the problems of Belarus in solidarity with the Law and Justice camp. And here. And praise be to God. Both the Polish government and the Polish opposition today speak with one voice: as Europe, we should stand up for Belarusian freedom. What's going on? ? The Polish government is not able to cause a hard European response in this matter. In an incomparably difficult situation when a powerful Russian army invaded Ukraine, the Prime Minister of the Polish Government Donald Tusk was able to organize solidarity resistance across Europe against Russian aggression. In a situation, I repeat, more difficult geopolitically, more dangerous than today's situation in Belarus. At that time, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party built a solidarity attitude of Europe towards Russian aggression. Today, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki has a solidarity attitude of Europe towards violations of human rights in Belarus, unfortunately, is not able to, so to speak, cause. The law that we are debating today, related to everything that concerns posted workers, is proof of the failure of a large part of the European policy of this government. Why? For example, because of what one of my venerable speakers spoke about, referring to the problems of a very important industry, which is the transport industry in Poland. These are tens of thousands of jobs. This is serious, largely Polish capital, involved in these companies. Polish jobs, Polish capital, taxes paid in Poland. This industry will be in grave danger. I will not repeat all the arguments here, but it is facing a deadly threat because of the astonishing alliance of the largest European liberals and Polish trade unions - Solidarity and the Polish Government of Law and Justice, who are unreasonably happy that Polish drivers will be imposed German labour rates. However, they do not realize that in capitalism the service provider will go to those who have a better price. If the Polish service provider does not have a better price than the German or French transport company, many partners who today use these cabotage services of Polish companies will obviously benefit from the services of others. In this case, the Government of Law and Justice failed and is not even able to admit it, because suddenly we hear here arguments: how can you vote against European laws, it is unbelievable, you will read your entire policy. Well, no, we won't, because no one's ever... For God's sake, you will argue not with us, but with yourselves. You will argue with your own ideas about Europe and with your own ideas about your political opponents. None of us say that we always have to accept everything Europe says. The other way around. We say: that is why we are in a joint club, which is the European Union, to fight for our interests. This was not feared by the PO-PSL government and was not afraid of the Civic Platform government. Yes, there was also a fight for our Polish, common interests in Europe, only that it was not accompanied by the rhetoric of constant getting up from the knees, it was not accompanied by rhetoric of insulting everyone around and shouting: we deserve it. This was accompanied by a normal, real discussion between partners based on Polish and European interests. You can't do that, and we see the effects of that today in the Senate. We have to stand before today. In fact, it's not that big of a It's a difficult time for us to... For example, I will vote against these solutions. As I have voted many times in the European Parliament, sitting there for nearly 11 years. Very many times, together with the Polish MEPs, I voted against various solutions. I want to tell you. Because the senator asked how the MEPs of the European People's Party voted on this matter, that both MEPs of the PSL and MEPs of the Civic Platform voted against it together with MEPs of Law and Justice. The problem is that once there was an effective Polish government behind the Polish MEPs. Today, behind the Polish Euro MPs stands the inefficient and isolated Polish government in Europe. There's a difference. She is not in the patriotism of the Europublishers of the PiS or the patriotism of the Europublishers of the Civic Platform. I have no reason to question patriotism, neither one or the other. She's in the effectiveness of the government behind them. This government in international politics is ineffective. This is the biggest accusation that can be repeated in his historical plan, because our disputes that we are having today, even those very violent ones, I hope someday. They'll be gone. Today, in some demonstrations, portraits of Piłsudski and Dmowski are worn, and probably both of them turn over in the grave, but today, after so many years it is possible. Perhaps one day on one manifestation they will wear portraits of Tusk and Kaczyński, because these disputes may also pass away. However, the damage in international policy, in the image of the Republic, in terms of the money that can come and not come, those jobs that could be maintained and that will be lost will be very difficult to do. And that's why we're opposed to this government. And that's why we're criticizing you. Not because we question your patriotism. Not because we're not patriots, but you are. And not because we do not want the good of the Republic together, because I am convinced that we want the good of the Republic together. Only that, at least today, when we talk about this aspect of international policy, your government simply can't take care of this good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Today we are talking about a law that implements EU law on posting workers for Polish companies posting workers to Poland from countries outside Poland. Of course, the whole directive concerns all Member States, i.e. Polish companies who send workers to other Member States, and this entitles me to speak on a little historical. I was provoked by Senator Mr. Frost's speech, which I understand because I understand the philosophy of PiS. Every criticism of the Civic Platform gives a huge political advance in this party. I agree with the senator, indeed there are three institutions in the European Union and decisions are taken in these three institutions. It is the European Parliament, it is the European Commission, it is the Council. And in these three institutions we have our representatives: in Parliament Parliamentary MEPs, in the Commission Your Commissioner, and the Council, we have ministers or even prime ministers. And I must tell you that working on the 1996 directive on posting of workers has been a very difficult job, because, as today, Western Europe has been very keen to limit this posting and very much wanted to use all the mistakes that entrepreneurs from other countries make to draw huge penalties. In French law it is up to 500 thousand euros To patch all kinds of holes in the budget. However, this work in 2010 and 2014, when we were just working on implementation, was that Polish representatives in these 3 institutions, i.e. in the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council, worked very intensively in parallel. To the extent that sometimes our negotiations ended at 1 o'clock in the morning, our negotiations in the European Parliament, negotiations with the Council and the Commission, and first thing in the morning at 8 o'clock, negotiations started in the Council, also with the Commission, without the participation of the European Parliament. And I must tell you that colleagues from the ministry, even Prime Minister Tusk, have always been ready at 1.00 to discuss what has happened in the European Parliament in the negotiations, so as to have good discussions during negotiations already in the Council. And this work has resulted in a very good document, a very good document, which has been evaluated by half of the ministers of the Member States of the European Union, both Western Europe and Eastern Europe, as the best prepared document in history... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] [[I'm sorry, Senator, but at an important moment, we lost your voice...]] And where did I end up? [[At this historic moment you ended and at this historic moment we lost communication...]] And I have to repeat everything? [[No, I'm sorry... but it's my duty, I suppose, to inform you that what you're saying is unheard, forgive me...]] I get it. I get it. In any case, the work of these 3 institutions, the work of Polish representatives in these 3 institutions resulted in a document which was highly evaluated by half of the Member States of the European Union. As the best document in the history of the European Union, which has been submitted in writing to the European Commission. But, as I said, this work looked like we were finishing negotiations in the European Parliament at one o'clock in the morning, and I could call my colleagues, my colleagues from the ministry, also Prime Minister Tusk, at one o'clock in the morning, because they had a Council meeting at eight o'clock in the morning to prepare them for this meeting and show the arguments they could work for us. Ladies and gentlemen, an update of the 1996 Basic Directive began in 2014. Then, as you may remember, President Macro ran over. On the 1996 Directive and the amendments to be made By all the Member States of the European Union, bypassing Poland. I must tell you that I would like Members of the PiS MEPs to be able to build such a high negotiating position, and not a destructive one, once again, the negotiating one that the Members of the Civic Platform, the SLD and the PSL have built because we have been completely cut off from any government support, any support that would enable us to better negotiate in the Council, better convincing the Member States. It was only at the end of these negotiations that Mr Kosma Złotowski of the PiS joined strongly in this work, but it was too late for us to negotiate everything we wanted. However, we have done a great deal, and we have gained a great deal, I think that the most important elements which Polish entrepreneurs pointed out to us and which they cared very much about. So, Mr. Senator, I'd like to wish your colleagues at the PiS that they had such high negotiating positions... The negotiating position means that I can find arguments, I can find partners, I can find a majority in Parliament or in the Council, I can convince my beliefs, to my arguments, I can be ready to compromise and I can look for such solutions within these compromises, so that they are the best for us. I wish it would continue to be what it looked like until 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u102	It will be rather in the mode of certain corrections, as well as explanations. This is a tribute to Senator Mr. Mr. Frost's speech. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we, our entire delegation from the European Parliament, present here in the Senate, namely Danuta Jazłowiecka, Adam Szejnfeld and I, voted against this directive. This was the year 2018. Let me remind you: 456 voted in favour, 147 against, 49 abstentions. In turn, much earlier, we have fought a real fight for the shape of this directive, greatly mitigating it, extending the settlement periods, and leading to a situation which will not be as disparate as it was before. On this occasion, I would like to say that Polish EPP MEPs, including Danuta Jazłowiecka, who have just spoken, were the most strongly involved in this directive and against some of its provisions. I will immediately add that in 2017 and 2018, i.e. during the final discussions on this directive, government support was very limited and unfortunately ineffective in many cases. What we have succeeded is primarily in the European Parliament, not in the negotiations in the institutions mentioned by Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. That's one thing. Secondly, today we are voting not on a directive, we are not voting on European law, we are voting on a particular project. I wanted to say that he's an implementing project, but he's not an implementing project, because the senator himself added things to this project that have nothing to do with implementation. So today we are strongly opposed to this form of implementation, which is unacceptable. This form of implementation has nothing to do with good legislation. And that's why we're protesting. I will say right away that we are aware that we are in the Senate, and therefore rejecting a certain form of implementation does not mean that we reject the directive - we just reject the way it is implemented in a specific form of law. Of course, we make this decision in the form of a resolution. And last but not least, it's important to me all the time. The most important issues we have ahead of us today are, of course, the fight against the pandemic, the coronavirus, but also what is happening in Belarus. And today, too, with this discussion, some questions, some words or suggestions addressed to senators, we are removing those issues that are really crucial. And for me today, the most important thing is to remind Poles about the necessity of vaccination, about the need to carry out certain tasks related to protection against the coronavirus and the reduction of pandemics, but also not to forget about Belarus, where we are dealing with an absolutely dramatic situation. Therefore, I hope that this discussion is actually coming to an end. Once again, we are always trying to be in the interest of the Polish state and its citizens. In the case of the directive, we voted against, and today we will vote primarily against the form of its implementation, which has a loose connection with the directive itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have already, as a matter of fact, expressed my opinion on this law by putting questions to the rapporteur's senator and to the Swedish Minister. This law involves a few threads and has a context that my predecessors, Senator Jazłowiecka or Senator Zdrojewski, have just spoken about, in my opinion scandalously, Senator Mrroza. I no longer wish to refer to Senator Mroz's speech, but it is worth realizing a few things. Namely, the law which is to implement this last directive, the 2018 Directive, Directive 2018/957, is a law which is only a front for the non-constitutional introduction of the law into the Polish system. The solutions that are very controversial and should be subject to a specific legislative process. But speaking of this directive of the European Union, I would like to say that this directive has been the subject of our criticism. After many months of work mentioned by Senator Jazłowiecka and Senator Zdrojewski, we were able to achieve certain goals, but these achievements, sometimes the next day, fell. Why? Because at the same time, the Law and Justice Government was running And it's leading to today. A policy I would call culturally... Well, I no longer want to talk about negation, criticism and destruction of the European Union and its values. Let us say that he has pursued a policy of full distance to the European Union, thus de facto not giving us a chance And, above all, to negotiate the better terms of this agreement. I would like to say that the predecessor of this directive was the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, Directive 2014/67, adopted on 15 May 2014. The Polish party did not have any fundamental comments on this directive. Why? Because the then government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party and our parliamentary representation in Brussels managed to negotiate good solutions. It was possible, among others. because unlike the Law and Justice and the present government, we treat the European Union as our own organization, not ours. We treat the countries of the European Union, its politicians, governments and, of course, parliamentarians as partners with whom we work and with whom we want to achieve not our own, but common objectives. I would like to say on this occasion that until the Law and Justice understand that in a family of European, civilised, democratic states common goals must be achieved, and not only their own goals, to act for all, and not just for our own, we will have further examples of not best solutions, such as. this directive. I also want to say on this occasion Because there were allegations that we may have voted for her, but it has already been explained that against That this directive without the action of MEPs, MEPs just the Civic Platform and other factions... In fact, outside of Law and Justice, because I didn't record those successes, so to speak... This directive does not, however, contain many other bad solutions. And to them in an absolutely special way I would include solutions that were wanted to move or apply per analogy from the road package, which we were ruthless opponents of. I have acted in the European Parliament against the solutions planned there many times, even when I was not a member of the committee responsible. I have also written letters to the governments of the Member States on this matter. And if we hadn't achieved this success, it would have been international transport, cabotage, etc. that Senator Komarnicki mentioned here as well... Well, I would like to say that we would have a drama and tragedy in Poland in terms of the situation of wonderful, large, effective companies in the international transport sector operating in a competitive European market. And here we can say to ourselves, symbolically stick the order, not be the subject of criticism, as I understand it, of one of the senators... I hope others wouldn't make such a mistake. To sum up, the context of this law is very important, it requires a change of the government's policy towards the European Union and an effort to amend these provisions, firstly, so that Polish entrepreneurs, posting their workers abroad, continue to make it worthwhile, and secondly, so that Poland, in other respects, in all aspects of co-existence with the European Union and Member States, discourages its good image of a Member State respecting the value of the European Union. Not constantly criticizing, negating, and de facto silently suggesting a desire to do polexit. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The first point is: I didn't say how Euro MPs of the Platform voted in Europe, I just asked a question because I didn't check it out. So I didn't accuse you of anything. That's one thing. Secondly, I appreciate the voice of Senator Jazłowiecka, to a lesser extent the voices of Senator Zdrojewski and Mr Szejnfeld, because they said that this directive was adopted in the European Parliament in the best possible shape. The kind that could only be praised. Nothing better in those political conditions that are, did not succeed. The fact that Polish MEPs voted against almost all factions of the PiS and the Civic Platform does not change the fact that it has become a European law and we must implement it into the Polish legal order. I do not wish to be malicious, but if today we are accused that we have not been able to negotiate anything better, I could say in this way: my colleagues from the Civic Platform have not been able to convince their colleagues in the European Parliament from their political group to block it. Polish MEPs are in the ECR group, which is a minority, and Members of the Civic Platform are in the coalition governing the European Parliament, the EPP, the Socialists have the majority that decides which rule in the European Parliament is in force. I am only talking about this in order to show how difficult the negotiations were and how I am talking about Poles here, we have tried to act so that this directive is as good as possible for Polish entrepreneurs. What could be negotiated in the European Commission, in the European Parliament... Probably also the Polish government, and Polish MEPs, regardless of what factions they are, did what they could. So we have such a directive, such regulations, which are as beneficial to Polish entrepreneurs as possible. In this context, Mr Szejnfeld or Senator Jazłowiecka, who have European experience, spoke about what might have been less beneficial, and what the European Commission has come up with. That's the first line. Second line. I do not understand these appeals to Belarus. There will be a point about Belarus, and I think that what is happening in Belarus is here, in the Senate, regardless of political colors, we will have a common opinion. I didn't say anything about Belarus because it's not the point. I am thinking about the effectiveness of the Government of Law and Justice, about the effectiveness of the Government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and his personal effectiveness, and about these relations at the European Council meeting. Well, that's the result of budget negotiations. We can argue on various issues, but on financial issues, which each country is really fighting for itself, some countries, if they are net contributors, are fighting to pay less, those who are beneficiaries, just like Poland, but not only Poland, they are fighting... So I think that the effect of the budget summit is very beneficial for Poland and this shows some effectiveness of the government of Law and Justice and personal Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Besides, such statements by the chancellor of Germany and Prime Minister Orbán, who praised this effectiveness and determination in the negotiations and fight for Polish cases, and to put it simply: about as much money as possible for Poles, for Poland, for Polish local governments, for Polish entrepreneurs... This is a matter of budget negotiations. There's one more thing. It would be necessary to return to the substance of this directive on the posting of Polish entrepreneurs. At some point Mr.Kamiński said: if Polish companies now have to pay according to German rates on this section, when they drive through Germany, German companies will push Polish entrepreneurs. There is no such concern because German drivers do not work for the minimum German rate, and we are talking about the need for Polish entrepreneurs to pay the minimum German rate. I wouldn't want to go into all of this about how the workers are paid... i.e. The driver, let's say it straight, but there's a lot to say about it, too, a lot to say. Some dishonesty was not paying Polish drivers who are going to Germany, France... I am not even talking about some minimum rates in those countries, but it was all paid through delegations, which the trade unions emphasized very strongly. And maybe this is the answer to the concerns of Marshal Borusewicz, who wondered why trade unions, including once again personally Piotr Duda, are allowed to introduce these personal threads, others are not allowed They also supported this directive. E.g. also in order to civilize a little bit the remuneration, the way Polish drivers are rewarded. If you had talked to these drivers, you would have heard how often they complain about these forms of pay. I think that this directive, which of course raises certain costs, introduces certain standards of civilization in the remuneration of Polish drivers, which is worth remembering on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I'm gonna move a few threads quickly. First of all, I'd like to address the senator as head of the Civic Coalition Club. I don't think I ever use ad personam in my speeches. Yesterday, one of the current Senators of Law and Justice in relation to the Civic Coalition club used the formulation of a special care club. I asked you not to use such words and to apologize, but it didn't come up with a response. [[Voice from the room: It wasn't me.]] Oh, God, no. Now I'd like to address you. I have not heard any of the Senators of the Civic Coalition in this or the previous 2 terms, after any speech by Senator PiS, in respect of which I could personally use various comparisons or epithets, use terms of nonsense, words that could be called nonsense, and you used such a term in relation to the appearance of one of the senators. You may disagree with what the Senator of the Civic Coalition says. This is the full right of democracy and discussion in the Senate. But I'm asking you very much to apologize to the person you used that term for. If you agree to us pointing at each other, you say bullshit and you say bullshit... Well, that doesn't lead us to anything. So I call on you to make such a gesture. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to say yes. Senator, look, we're not talking about not fighting. We talk about it for once. For you, the legislative technique, the creation of law and the time of law-making... According to your statement, it doesn't matter at all. It is only important to have a law created, because later this law will be sent to the Constitutional Court and it will decide whether it is lawful or not. Well, we're gonna be the only country in the world that's gonna make that law. Let's fire all the lawyers, create what we like, and let's say that's good, and then the Court will rule whether it's really good, whether it's legal or not. Mr. Senator, I'd like some decency in terms of your attitude towards lawmaking. As regards the lack of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal, I have no confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal. And don't be surprised. You do, and I don't. We are talking about the fact that the Court does not fulfil its role due to a lack of constitutional appointment or other shortcomings. We can argue, but let's respect each other's opinions. Now what's going on with the bill and the negotiations. I'd really like a moment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Director, I'm almost done, but I'm a little upset. I will now refer to this great success negotiating on posted workers. As many people have said here, success is certainly not the case, but I can subscribe to your statement that the effect of negotiations depends on how much we have been able to negotiate. And here's the thing: we know what a negotiating position law and justice is in the European Union. Well, you've got incredible efficiency. And now you say: there is one man in the world, Prime Minister, who has negotiated such a wonderful budget for Poland. I want you to take a look at the exact... I'm not talking about press analysis. If you look at how much is there for agriculture, how much for other departments, then this success will get a little pale, to say the least. The Lord addresses us about this budget and says: this is the budget for Poland, start your contacts to support the Prime Minister. I have one good idea. You will see that not only this, but we will negotiate a bigger budget in the European Union... Do you know what this idea is? Start obeying the law in Poland, especially when it comes to the judiciary. If you start following the law, you'll see how the negotiating fields open up to you. That's all I'm calling for. I particularly refer to the senator as head of the club. Mr. Senator, please don't use... I know that there are things in the debate that say that emotions can get out of hand. I know you, and I know this has slipped out, so if you could just tell me I'm sorry, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Frost, ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u110	Mr. Senator, I have not offended Senator Lover in any way. I've never used anything in my life that would offend the senator, although I said she was talking nonsense, accusing things of Jarosław Kaczyński. I have the right to call it bullshit. The senator may not think so. I've never offended Senator Lover in my life, nor, if I remember correctly, any other senator, and I've been here almost five years. If it had happened to me, I would have apologized. In emotions, you can say half a sentence too much, but in my speech there was certainly nothing offensive. Looking Senator Lover in the eye, I can say I didn't offend her, so I have nothing to apologize for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u111	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll just explain two points so that we don't mislead the public. Well, in 2014, we won the posting of workers and improved their working conditions and eliminated the so-called. mailboxes, i.e. dishonest entrepreneurs who seemingly posted Polish workers. We have won this because what has been negotiated in the European Parliament has been approved by the Council. Conversely, what was negotiated by the Council was approved by the European Parliament. This consistency made the result very good. In turn, in 2018 we negotiated very good conditions In the European Parliament, we have achieved almost everything we need. But unfortunately, our government's position and attitude did not cause us to lose many things that we could not rebuild later in the European Parliament. That's why I said we got what we could get. Well, the lack of activity in the Council has unfortunately led to the acceptance of certain solutions in the European Parliament. That's what this doesn't exactly mean. As far as remuneration is concerned, no minimum remuneration has been applicable since the adoption of the 2018 Directive. No remuneration shall apply from the country to which the worker is posted. The point is that an employee in a similar position, in a similar workplace, earns one, not another. So that's all gone, that minimum wage from here kind of fell out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Bosacki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 8 long years, the French Government tried, at the request of its trade unions, to amend the European Union's directive on posted workers in order to help its entrepreneurs and to harm entrepreneurs from Central Europe, especially from Poland. For eight long years, this was not possible because the then Polish government, the government of the Civic Platform, was able to effectively oppose these efforts in the European Parliament and the European Council. After Emmanuel Macron's reign, France realized its plan within a year because the PiS government was unable to resist it. In other words, between 2007 and 2015 Poland has carried out its interests and since 2015 other countries have been more effectively pursuing their interests in the European Union. I hope that an effective policy from 2007 to 2015 will come back as soon as possible in the vital Polish national interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u115	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I also inform you that Senator Swede made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Morawska-Stanecka and Senator Frost. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I'm about to announce an hour's break. As announced after the resumption of the session, I will propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a second reading of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Belarus. After completing the agenda, we will proceed with the discussion of the item: the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs. We will vote on this matter immediately after considering this point. We will then proceed with the second reading of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Belarus. We will vote on this matter immediately after considering this point. Following the vote on the motion for a resolution, we will consider the following points: the Law on the Support of Uniform Services (point 16); the subsequent draft amendment of the Police Act (point 17); and the information of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration (point 18). Message.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u116	The meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will take place at 3 p.m. in the Senate plenary room. The meeting will be attended by the first reading of the draft law on amending the law of the Criminal Code; Senate printing No 163. Then, immediately after the joint meeting of the committee, a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held. This will continue at 9 a.m. and will also be held in the Senate plenary room. We will deal with the first reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the August agreements; Senate printing No 180. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the requests submitted at the 14th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other acts "Senator's Print No 165" will be held today 15 minutes after the adjournment in room 176. Immediately after the end of the joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, a meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance will be held on the examination of the requests submitted at the 14th meeting of the Senate to the Act on the support of the market in insurance of commercial claims in relation to the countering of the economic effects of COVID-19; Senate printing No 161. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u117	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 58 to 16 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u118	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a second reading of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Belarus. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to remind you that we are about to proceed with this point: the election of the President of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. We will vote on this matter immediately after considering this point. We will then proceed with the second reading of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Belarus. We will vote on this matter immediately after considering this point. After the vote on the motion for a resolution, we will consider paragraphs 16, 17 and 18, i.e. the law on the support of uniformed services, then the bill on the amendment of the Police Act and the information of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs. The proposal of the Senate Marshal on this matter is contained in print No 183. I would also like to inform you that the proposal to elect Senator Stanisław Gawłowski as Chairman of the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs has been welcomed by the Senior Convention. I ask Senator Magdalena Kochan to speak and present Senator Stanisław Gawłowski's candidacy as chairman of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At today's meeting, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs selected the president, sharing its opinion on the recommendation that this is, firstly, a very important and very important committee for future generations, and secondly, in the Polish Parliament, the first committee to deal with matters that may already be irreversible, climate change issues that we want to stop or Perhaps if it succeeds. I'll take it back at all. But in order to do so, we need to take a whole range of actions related to wise political decisions. Conducting legislative work requires exceptional competence from someone who will be the chairman of this committee. And this person, in the opinion of the vast majority of committees, is Dr Stanisław Gawłowski, a long-term self-government officer, the governor and mayor, the president, the councilman of the local government sejm, then, from 2005, a parliamentarian, and from 2007 to 2015 a deputy minister of environmental protection. The person who co-founded the National House of Waste Management, the person who implemented the institutional protection of the environment. A person who understands how it is to work with NGOs and local authorities, without cooperation with which no good changes in law and good practice can be made. It is a person who first of all knows that renewable energy sources must replace coal without the loss of jobs in Silesia, which is very important for the whole economy, for Silesia and also for all of us, because we all, and young people, our children, our grandchildren, and also we, have the right to breathe clean air, so this coal must be replaced by renewable energy sources. Mr Stanisław Gawłowski also knows that fresh water resources are not inexhaustible and that everything needs to be done to improve the water balance in Poland. He also knows that the forest economy must stop being robbed and we must plant more trees than we cut out. He also knows that Poland cannot be a waste dump and that sensible, sensible waste management must be implemented. I am convinced that the competences of Dr Stanisław Gawłowski, Senator of the Republic of Poland, will provide us with good, smart work in the climate committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? Senator Skurkiewicz. [[The question is whether in the form of a question to the senator or in the form of a speech.]] As you wish, there is freedom in this matter at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was amazed to hear Senator Kochan's recommendation, especially at one point. This is something unusual: Senator Kochan has refused the powers of the current Chairman of the Environment Committee, Senator Pupa, who manages this committee and has managed this committee for many years. There's never been a situation like this, for example. Professor Rotnicka was in charge of the Environment Committee. We worked very well together and no one questioned her competence as chairman of the committee. Today, you have challenged Mr Pupa's powers. I will repeat once again: the environment of law and justice, the Senators of law and justice have a negative assessment of the setting up of a climate committee, and they have a negative effect on it. Why? Because this committee duplicates the powers already in place, and it has been functioning successfully from the very beginning, historically, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on the Environment. It is not enough that such peans expressed by you to the candidate for the position of president seem to have nothing to do with reality, because Stanisław Gawłowski was the face of, for example, the so-called. the garbage bill, which introduced such chaos in the garbage economy, that local governments have enormous problems with managing waste management, waste management. Stanisław Gawłowski was also, as Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment, the face of the Act which concerned the conservation of natural resources and cooperation with society. It's also a law that gives rise to a lot of competence... Apart from other issues, to put it mildly, in my feelings, but probably the vast majority of my friends and colleagues at my club, it is absolutely controversial. And you're taking action in this area. But in abstraction from all of this, I do not accept that you would diminish the competence of a fellow senator, including your colleague, a senator sitting in the same House. Perhaps such situations are possible in the Seym. Well, you've been in the Sejm for years. But in the Senate, where there are only 100 people, such situations are absolutely unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. I dare not comment on your speech because it is not my role. Let me just remind you that it was the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki who formed the Ministry of Climate next to the Ministry of Environment. I have listened very carefully to Senator Kochan, and I know that there has never been any reference to our colleague, Senator Pupa. [[Then listen to the recording or read in the transcript what Mrs. Lover said.]] You know, as far as I'm concerned, we could be discussing this. Right now, because no one else joined the discussion... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Can I relate to that? Ad vocem.]] But only ad vocem, Madam President. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u123	Mr. Senator, to be honest, I share your amazement as a marshal, because it would not have occurred to me to question the competence of any of the senators. Since I have been in this House, or since I have actually been in Parliament, I have never commented directly on someone's competences or attacked ad personam of other parliamentarians. I was referring to matters, disagreed with opinions, but I never dealt with anyone's powers or how to express my own opinions. If you don't mind, Senator, let me remind you that the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has appointed a High Senate. If he called her, then for obvious reasons her chairman had to be elected. I'm not putting this committee against any of the committees that work today. I think that if these 2 committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, combine their actions in a substantive sense, it will be for good and for the climate and environmental protection in Poland. If Senator Pup felt what I would be very surprised, to any extent offended, I can assure you that under no circumstances have I questioned his competence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u124	Thank you very much. You asked Senator Gawłowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, thank you very much for the recommendation of the committee and for the vote of Senator Kochan. I would also like to refer to you as politely as I can, of course. To those words that just came from Senator Skurkiewicz's mouth. If you had read the scope of the emergency committee's activities, you would have seen that it is much wider than it is with the Environment Committee. Indeed, it is largely in line with what the Minister for Climate Affairs is currently doing. I mean, for example, sustainable energy, water management, low-carbon transport, etc., etc. Well, there's also an area of agriculture and even waste management. So the committee will approach issues that are linked to climate change, really very comprehensively, not in sector terms. The fact that the Ministry of Climate was established in Poland is not unusual either, because in fact in most countries of the European Union such ministries already function today. Moreover, the Commissioner for Climate Affairs is at the level of the European Commission and he is the Commissioner for the Environment. I assume the senator knows all this, but not all of us need to monitor things that are so closely connected with it, which is why I've allowed myself this reminder. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, Senator, if the PiS government hadn't tampered with the garbage bill in the previous term, there wouldn't have been all these problems that are related to waste management today. Really, all you have to do is look at the changes that have been made in the garbage legislation and see that they have caused a lot of confusion at the local government level. More, all local government corporations talk about it loudly and unambiguously No, there are no other votes that the changes introduced in the previous term caused these complications. Last but not least, Senator Skurkiewicz, General Directorate for Environment and Regional Environment Directorates, referred to this. Indeed, I am very proud of this, I was a co-author and I was reforming the establishment of these institutions. This ended a long-term dispute between the Polish government and the European Commission, moreover, organized the entire nature protection system in Poland. And really by everyone, without exception, experts Not politicians This area is assessed as being exemplary introduced in Poland. So I'm a little surprised you're criticizing this. But you have every right to, well, if you want to hit a dog, there's always a stick. The least I want to do is refer to the issues that have sounded in the word "controversial." This controversy really is, it boils down to the fact that one of the PiS activists, caught in 2013 on how he gave a bribe to another important official, in 2016, in mid-2016. He remembered that he knew me, and he started to burden me. One. But it has nothing to do with the truth. Today, everything is really getting out in front of the courthouse. And this is a huge disgrace to the D.A.'s office. I will say more: I am deeply convinced that in the not too distant future these matters will be dealt with by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, not in this term of office, of course, and those who are behind this provocation, behind this action, will bear full responsibility. I really don't want to say anything else, although I can, because today, of course... If one of your senators ever wants to talk to me about it, I'm completely at your disposal. I'll bring the documents because they're all public today and there's no problem going through them. One big disgrace to the D.A.'s office, that's what it looks like right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. Are you Senator Skurkiewicz ad vocem?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u127	Mr. Marshal, an explanation, because I think we all deserve it here. Well, thanks to Senator Gawłowski's speech, there is a great shoe and insolentness. Because if it weren't for the garbage bill that introduced the so-called system. the self-financing of the garbage economy, if not that the regulations that Mr Gawłowski has established allow, for example, today. transport of municipal waste from Tchajka all over Poland and littering many, many very ecological grasslands, so we do not have the problem we have today, at the moment. It was a bad bill, Mr. Senator, and you should understand that. You should understand that. And you were the company. [[Mr. Marshal, just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u128	Thank you very much. I'm closing this discussion. The temperature of your discussions convinces me that the setting up of a climate committee was absolutely necessary. I look forward to the interesting deliberations of this committee, I hope, with constructive, good conclusions. We are voting on the election of the President of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? For Senator Mammoth, I'll release the phrase mode. Who's holding back? Did the senator make it? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 48 votes against, 39 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs. I ask the president, Senator Gawłowski, to come from the upper room and approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution on choice. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I can assure you that work will be hard and I hope to work with all those who want to work hard on this committee. Thank you very much for your trust.]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Belarus. I would like to remind you that the project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 189 and the report "Print No 179 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The affairs of our friends and neighbours in Belarus are not the case from now on. The ways of many of us have intertwined with the fate of those who were people of freedom and democracy in Belarus since Alexander Lukashenka took power there in 1994. We have helped them, supported them within our capabilities, and raised important issues for them in the international forum. This was the case both in our Parliament and in the European Parliament. I firmly believe that the murder case for which Aleksandra Lukashenka's team is responsible, carried out on several prominent figures who supported democracy in Belarus I mean politicians and businessmen from the 1990s. It would not have obtained sufficient capacity and would not have been so publicly known if it had not been for our activities during the 2001-2004 term of office in the Sejm and in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. It was us, the people of Polish freedom and Polish democracy that asked families to inform both the Polish public and the public in other countries about what had happened. We were also with the Belarusians on our European path. Both Senator Zdrojewski, who is the author of this submitted text, and I, earlier, were chairmen of the European Parliament's committee and delegation for Belarus, a delegation specifically established in the European Parliament when Poland joined the European Union. This was because European parliamentarians knew that Eastern policy issues, the Eastern neighbours of the European Union, and thus Ukraine and Belarus, were Polish specialties. And we struggled with it both here, in the country and abroad, to do our best. But today is a special day. Today is a day that has not existed since 1994 because, behold, the Belarusians have massively applied for their freedom. The Belarusians decided to be masters of themselves. The Belarusians stopped wanting to be ruled They want to start ruling in their own country. And they decided to do it, even though they realized that these elections in Belarus are not democratic elections, they are not honest elections and they cannot be in a country of dictatorship and in a country ruled by a criminal leader. But they decided to put it all on one card. This break of free Belarusians has been observed with such attention and interest, because actually our Polish hearts, beating to the rhythm of freedom and democracy, were beating with them. And the moment these elections were forged, when the results of these elections were falsified, and I personally have no doubt that this has happened. By all means, free Poles took the side of free Belarusians. Hence the emergence of this solidarity reflex, which we have seen in Poland since Sunday. From this instinct of solidarity between free Poles and free Belarusians, this motion for a resolution was born. We felt that solidarity required the Senate to react in this crucial situation, that not only do we have the right, but we have a duty to be with them and to run all the mechanisms and tools that are available to us to support them. This resolution, which is already after first reading and which I would like to recommend to the High House, is a resolution addressed not only to the free Belarusians, but also to the Belarusian authorities. Even though they are dictatorial To the authorities of the Republic of Poland, to the President and to the Government of the Republic of Poland and to international organisations, including in particular the European Union. I am pleased to present to the High Senate that the motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously. She is an expression of compromise, but also, I believe, an expression of the belief that in matters so crucial to our neighbours and so important for the security of our country Poles should speak with one voice As we said together during the Orange Revolution in Ukraine and as we spoke with one voice during Majdan 9 years later. That is why this resolution calls for Belarus to respect the principles of dialogue, including in the case of minorities. Let us remind you how significant and how large the Polish minority in Belarus is. In order to stop repression immediately, the regime will immediately release all detained, arrested, imprisoned, beaten, kicked; I think we all have these photos in front of our eyes. This calls for the regime to finally decide to comply with all those principles contained in the resolutions of both the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the European Parliament. We also appeal to the President of the Republic of Poland and to the Polish Government. We believe that, at such an important moment as I said, when the security of our country is at stake, the National Security Council should be convened by the President of the Republic of Poland. We also believe that the President and the Government should present to the public what they want to do on Belarus. We therefore believe that a strategy of action should be presented in order to avoid the ad hoc nature of these actions and to have a coherent, coherent strategy of conduct. We also believe that we should be prepared to provide shelter in Poland, I will stress the friendly refuge of those of the free Belarusians who will decide to leave their country. We believe that so far, but now in particular, the Polish authorities should support independent media, international human rights organisations and citizens, as well as civil society institutions in Belarus. It's a duty. It's not just the law, it's also the duty of our authorities. And finally, in the third part, Mr. Marshal, let me make this brief, so as not to prolong. We call on all international organisations, but especially all the institutions of the European Union, to do everything possible to protect the free Belarusians, so that a wave of brutal repression will end in Belarus, so that militarised militia troops will depart from brutal and beastly practices towards the citizens of Belarus and that Belarus can enjoy freedom and democracy in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u130	Thank you very much, senator. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Bogdan Klich to represent them. I don't do that much, but now I'm going to make two announcements. I would like to welcome Mr Michael Szczerba, who has just returned from Minsk. [[Applause]] I would like to say that I have just received from the Secretary of State's crew, Mr Mike Pompeo, information that they are monitoring the situation very closely in Belarus. During a short, four-hour visit to Poland this subject will probably be raised. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Would a government representative like to speak on the motion for a resolution? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senators Bogdan Zdrojewski, Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Marek Pęk and Aleksander Szwed joined the discussion. Senator Swed has spoken in the debate for the minutes. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in Belarus is indeed extraordinary. I was the author of not only this resolution, but also of earlier resolutions adopted in the European Parliament 3 such resolutions since 2015. I don't remember such dramatic circumstances. We have always tried to respond to what is happening in a European country where death sentences are carried out as the only time. We have repeatedly asked for a moratorium on this matter. We also put a great deal of pressure on the repression that took place in Belarus and political prisoners. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, It happened once. This was the year of 2015, when, as a result of the intervention of the EU institutions, world institutions, including the OSCE, there were for a short time no political prisoners in Belarus. Unfortunately, we have returned to a situation where we have not only political prisoners, but also an unprecedented scale of repression, extremely aggressive Belarusian authorities towards our own citizens and a very modest opportunity for dialogue that we, the senators, as well as representatives of various institutions today are calling for. It was not easy to prepare this resolution. I started with a statement addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs a few weeks ago here, in the Senate, primarily to draw attention to the role of Poland in matters which concern European security, security of Poland, but also security, the future and the ability to achieve the aspirations of the Belarusian people 'Cause he's the one we're expressing concern for. Let me remind you that we as senators have the opportunity to make statements, we can adopt resolutions in the form of appeals or also statements, but we also have according to the article. 85 right to adopt resolutions. We have used this formula because it is the strongest, most appropriate, most appropriate for this situation. We can therefore describe the situation in Belarus, and we have done so in the preamble. As well as building this 3-part appeal. The most important part I will once again quote it to the President of Belarus, as well as to the government, for the cessation of repression and the immediate release of political prisoners, all detained in connection with recent electoral actions, to respect and follow the recommendations of the subsequent resolutions. We listed these resolutions, 3 resolutions, where there were dozens of points addressed to the Belarusian authorities in order to restore the normality of the situation and at least a partially democratic formula of the institutions there. As Head of Delegation, I have visited Minsk many times and I know that the most difficult conversations were with the head of the Central Election Commission, Mrs Jarmoszyna. In general, these conversations met with an absolute, aggressive negative response. I am opposed to voting today or talking about what these elections looked like, because there was no election. The Belarusians wanted to vote, but the elections Okay, I'm gonna stress this one more time. In accordance with the principles and the directive and the opinions prepared by the OSCE in Belarus, de facto has not been held for many years. I'd like to draw your attention. also on the history of Belarusians, a dramatic history. I'm not going to describe her, of course. Belarus is a nation that in every conflict has been extremely hard experienced in every international dispute in history. We remember the Belarusian front, which stopped, in connection with political decisions, in Warsaw's Prague. But in general we know that I will also return here to previous events How dramatic history affects the Belarusian people and how many crosses, how many places particularly difficult to remember remain on Belarusian soil. After the vote, we will have the opportunity to take a picture with this Belarusian flag, which had a very short chance to exist. When we Poles began to enjoy regained independence. The Belarusians did not have such a long period in which they could enjoy the possibility of appearing under this flag. She came back for a short time. We know what flag the Belarusian people are today operating on the international stage, which is not guaranteeing... and, in any case, not indicating its symbolism to its sovereignty. Finally, I welcome this consensus in the Senate obtained in cooperation at the committee meeting, at a brief meeting of the club authorities. My project, which I prepared in the introductory version, was somewhat more ambitious in one element. I really want Poland to be the leader I stress: the leader in Eastern policy, so that our authorities set an extremely precise example and are effective in this policy. It didn't work out for any government. At the moment, it is not a touch to the current Foreign Office to build a long-term Eastern policy. There have been attempts more or less successful, but this Eastern policy is still limping. Today we are not a leader, we are not even among this narrow group of leaders, but we should be one. Therefore, this point was so reworded as to create an opportunity for a meeting of the Security Council to meet in the Seym and the Senate and to try together, together to lead to such a situation that the Belarusians just beyond our eastern border will know that we are an effective country in the international arena, that we perfectly understand the specificity, the location of Belarus. This isn't Portugal. The point is that we should be politically empathetic in this respect, but quite effective in the international arena. That is what I wish for, but also for the Belarusians. There's a friend of Sherlock's here. Thank you so much for being here and for your relationship. The authentic presence of us through the presence of our parliamentarians is to give testimony that we are very, very interested in it. Today, from this tribune, I express my admiration for a nation that, living in a regime, is able to resist in such a difficult situation, under such difficult geopolitical conditions and so difficult geographical conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. We're running out of time. At times of extraordinary nature, we always ask ourselves whether we have met them. But you also have to think about the future. I think we have met in the sense that we have naturally shown solidarity with those who have spoken and awakened to freedom, especially with a nation so closely connected historically and culturally with Poland. It is very good that in Poland did not sound the voice of such a small cynicism, which is present in the publication. This is not a phenomenon absent from Poland. Our cottage out of the country, let's not get out of here. This voice was not, it did not affect the public debate, and it can even be said that solidarity and consensus on this resolution show the still existing strength of the solidarity tradition and its impact on both such different political formations. We spoke with one voice in this matter. But we have a lesson in the last 10 years, which is very pessimistic. It is a lesson to test itself at the time of the trial, at the time of the orange revolution, at the moment of Majdan and not to exist after this Polish Eastern policy. She existed before accession to the European Union and in the first years after accession. Well, Majdan is a very meaningful example here. Unity even at that moment, the unambiguous position of Polish politicians and the non-existence of Poland in Ukraine, in the sense of political, economic and cultural influence. There is no Polish Eastern policy. I hope that just as we have managed to maintain unity at this particular moment and express with great force what is fundamental to Polish political culture, so also together Maybe this is the special role of the Senate. We will ensure the reconstruction of Eastern policy, which will work for years, which will have political instruments, economic impact in terms of scientific exchanges, youth exchanges, so that Poland is known not only for its warm feelings but for its real potential in the East. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation in Belarus is dramatic. That's what we all know. In addition, drama adds that in a moment there will be the 40th anniversary of August in Gdansk. We managed to win then, maybe not quite, but certainly break the totalitarian system of the communist state of that time. In fact, on this anniversary in Belarus, dictatorial power deals with its citizens, people who went out on the streets, voted, voted honestly, according to their consciences, and the dictator took away their victory and the celebration of democracy. Because it could have been a celebration of democracy. We, regardless of where we were 40 years ago, accept changes in Poland and emphasize the great importance of a bloodless uprising. It is unacceptable for us, by the European, world public opinion, what is happening in Belarus at the moment. We knew this was a system... For 26 years there was a dictatorial system. But we didn't know that he was capable of this kind of action, to use violence, not against individual groups, not against opposition, but against society. We must remind you that human rights are the basis for democratic states, and I will say even: normal states. It seemed that human rights were universally accepted, especially in Europe, and here, with our nearest neighbour, the power tramples, rejects, undermines, and this is openly, directly. I have been in Belarus many times, but until 1994, to the elections in which the president was elected Lukashenka. It was a democratic election. The leader who, as it seemed then, would be elected, i.e. the President of Parliament Szuszkiewicz, lost this election. Lukashenka won it. These were the first and last democratic elections in which he participated. Of course, this is primarily the case of the Belarusians. The overthrow of this dictatorship is primarily a matter of Belarusians, but that does not mean that we should be indifferent. We are not indifferent and no one can tell us that we are interfering in Belarus' internal affairs. When fundamental human rights are trampled on, the right to assembly, the right to express its opinion, it is not an internal matter of any state. That's the case. All of us. The existence of democratic Belarus is also in the interest of Poland. We want a good and predictable neighbor, and dictatorships are unpredictable. The dictator may try to accomplish what he thinks he is not bound by the voice of society, he is not bound by the law that he himself is. This is a dangerous situation for us too. That is why we need our common vote on Belarus. We should stand together in the defence of the Belarusians, in the defence of Belarus as well. Because defending the Belarusians is also defending Belarus. Because I think that we should stand together in the defence of the Belarusians, I propose, in addition to such a resolution... that we work on concrete steps towards this dictatorship, which has shown its worst face. Personal sanctions are needed. Those who use violence must not be allowed to drive this violence freely into the countries of the European Union. We also need to think about other sanctions. About the economic sanctions. And of course, these sanctions will also affect our interests. But if we put our economic interests before human rights, it will be a situation in which we will have to accept the ever worse actions of this power of Lukashenka, who is now dealing with her citizens. There is also a Polish minority, which we have helped and which is part of Belarus, after all, is part of the citizens of Belarus. It's a special commitment for us, too. So I believe that Belarus needs to be helped, that we need to help society, but we need to isolate the dictator and his surroundings, which implement this fatal, criminal policy towards our society in principle, denying its society fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal Pęk, we should... it is good that we are on this matter together. And I want to give you this flag so that we can take a picture together and act together in a situation where it is necessary to speak together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u136	Thank you very much. Marshal Marek Pęk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u137	Mr. Marshal, High Senate! There's no question about one thing. The situation in Belarus is dramatic. It requires a free world response. It also requires the response of the Polish nation, a nation particularly experienced by history, especially experienced in the fight for its freedom, for its independence, for its sovereignty. We have great achievements in this regard, we have great casualties in this regard. Therefore, we also have a specific moral and political mandate to speak on these issues, to set an example for the international community and to call on the international community to respond to concrete, effective responses. I have no doubt that if this reaction of the free world is to be fruitful, to be effective, to be sustainable, it must be as broad as possible. This is really about the common voice of the free world, the democratic world. No one can hide behind the screen of their private interests, any lack of civil courage or political courage. So today, indeed, the most important is the broadest, as comprehensive as possible, the bravest and wisest response of all international institutions, all actors of international law, which in this world have power and significance. The draft resolution is indeed the result of a compromise, an internal debate in the Senate, and, like any compromise, it is not a perfect compromise, it has its better and worse sides. From the beginning we have stressed that the weakest part, the weakest part of this debate is some very special, very detailed call for concrete actions of the President of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland. I believe that the Senate should not address in such a detailed, very specific way those authorities of the State which, according to the Constitution, conduct foreign policy, i.e. the government and the President, because certain prerogatives must be respected, it is necessary to give priority here to those who, according to the Constitution, are particularly responsible for foreign policy. We should have high-level discussions, e.g. at the level of the Marshals of the Senate and the Sejm, the President, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Such colloquial conversations, conversations of a confidential nature, are certainly needed in this situation. But outside, in the international arena, one-sounding, uniform, coherent voice of the Republic of Poland is needed. So let us give another chance to those responsible for foreign policy. Besides, both the Polish government and the President have already spoken on this issue, they have already taken some concrete action. It is, of course, difficult because of the doubts about a certain segment, a part of the draft resolution to be against it, and we will therefore support it. But once again, I stress that this passage is the weakest, although it has been further refined in such a way that this final resolution is better than the original one. This primal one also unnecessarily entered into some strong confrontational polemic about what Eastern policy looks like today, what its achievements are. This is not a good place for such a discussion. The Senate is a Senate, should be a Senate, and therefore know what its place is in the hierarchy of the highest state authorities in terms of competence to conduct foreign policy. The response of the European Union and international organisations is certainly extremely important in the current situation. It is like another test, this is another exam for these organizations, for those institutions which, paradoxically, seem to have incredible influences, extraordinary means and opportunities, political instruments, financial instruments of various influences, and not always their actions are concrete, consistent, consistent, and very often we encounter insufficient actions. This is on my part a commentary, in particular, on the activities of the European institutions, the European Union. Here, surely, there is a great challenge on the part of the European institutions. And once again, I stress this: the need for a unified, coherent voice and the strongest possible voice. That is why I have sought personally that this resolution should include such a passage calling for a specific, very strong approach to this issue in the European forum. Whether it's gonna be the top, it's gonna show time. However, this is clearly a matter which should be the subject of a European summit. This is certainly a topic that should be discussed by the Heads of Government of all the countries of the European Union. This resolution was clarified today at the committee meeting, but I was still wondering if something was missing, and I said that I would make one more amendment, which would call on the President of the European Parliament's Delegation for relations with Belarus to take action in the European Parliament in view of the situation in the Republic of Belarus and the leaders of European political parties to act on the situation in the Republic of Belarus. This is clearly a subject that should be strongly emphasised in the European parties. Many have been raised especially in your political environment Mr Donald Tusk's extraordinary influence in the structures of the European Union, so I think that such an appeal should not raise your objections, doubts. It is also worth appealing to those people whose state, as a majority of the Senate, is particularly influential in Europe. This is a test. also for these politicians. This is an opportunity to show your abilities, show your influence, go beyond what you've seen in recent months, especially in the last few months, in Donald Tusk's activities. Well, his activities were actually limited to malicious or ironic tweets. This is also a great exam for President Donald Tusk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz will speak. From room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I must refer to your Marshal's statement. Unfortunately, this statement shows some inconsistencies, inaccuracies, or even hypocrisy. You say that we should not appeal to the government and to the President, who, unfortunately, have been quite passive so far, so that we do not enter into the powers of the government and the President, while at the same time attacking Donald Tusk and expecting that there will be an appeal for greater activity by the authorities or representatives of the European Union in our resolution. This is a really big inconsistency, even hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, now the main part of my brief statement. My name is Wadim Tyszkiewicz, I was born in Belarus and almost 60 years ago I came to Poland. That's where my house is. My homeland is here, but my homeland is there too. I was born in Hancewicz. It's a small town. Before the war it was one of the farthest Polish towns in the East End of the Republic. This is where the Squadron of the Cavalry of the Border Protection Corps was stationed operating within the framework of the "Polesie" Brigade. That's where I was born. For nearly 60 years I have lived in Poland and I have often been ridiculed or insulted, because so far the word "Belarusin" did not sound proud. There was often a slogan in political disputes: get out of Belarus! Being Belarusian wasn't an honor. Tadeusz Kościuszko was also born in Belarus, born as Belarusian, but not everyone remembers it. Today, the word "Belarusin" sounds proud and let it remain so. Thank you for this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been planning a slightly different speech, but I'm just gonna limit myself to two things. After, of course, the amendment that you tabled to Marshal Pęk, I declare that the Legislative Commission can, of course, begin work immediately. I hope that, in such an important matter, we are able to work out a text that will be adopted by all of us. And there's only one thing I'd like to note in the substantive part. Well, as the opposition candidate for president shows... This situation makes clear to us that in a moment a group of Belarusians and also Poles living in Belarus can be... In the case of a negative scenario in Belarus, where the society will be oppressed, we in Poland, because Poland is the closest neighbour, must be prepared for the fact that some group of Belarusian citizens, including, I will stress once again, Poles and Poles living in Belarus The forced circumstances that will take place there will be found in our country. And at this point, I would like to ask and appeal, not only to the government, but also to local governments. So that we can be prepared for this scenario, because this can happen many times in the future. Self-governments have already proven that they can organize instantly great help, whether for accepted Polish families from the East, or for Georgians, Ukrainians. The point is that we should be prepared for this situation and that under dramatic circumstances... Hopefully they will not be there, but if the situation is such that some group of Belarusian citizens, including once again, Poles living there, will find themselves in our country, so that they will meet with a lot of help, support to show them that in such difficult situations they can count on the so-called. A good neighbor's help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u142	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to share that reflection. Probably the first elections observed within the Council of Europe were elections 4 years or 5 years ago in Belarus, elections not president, but parliamentary elections. I had a chance to be a part of this. I'd like to show you what the facade of democracy is. We met there with the highest authorities of Belarus, among others. with the head of the equivalent of our National Election Commission. And to our question... Because the law in Belarus is so constructed that it is practically only possible to run an election campaign for a month. And the head of this, as I say, of the facade equivalent of our State Election Commission has begun to complain to us, as the Belarusians do not take part in the elections. She said that they weren't interested at all, that they were. In fact, they're so happy that they don't go to elections very much. That's what we noticed... Oh, and she also said that they're giving them every opportunity to watch election spots on TV this month, and they've got this research that only 2% He's watching these election spots. And for our delicate question and suggestion that maybe it's because the elections are every four years, and this 1 month when you can run an election campaign is exactly the month when there's an Olympics, when the Belarusians just watch, like all societies, the Olympics struggle... We suggested that perhaps a great deal would help Belarusian democracy if it were to be organized in another month. And, with full honesty, your chief of the election committee told us this: maybe the Olympic movement will change the term of the Olympics. It was dramatic for me in its logic, such a Soviet speech. Of course, everyone we talked to there, and they were government officials, showed that they had full democracy. Well, the fact that public television practically only praises this regime, that the constitutional tribunal is practically not there, it's all okay. There is in this Belarusian lesson, I think, such a memento for us that even if you are 70% An election turnout, because that's pretty much what happened there... Besides, it was quite interesting to me how these elections were organized. In schools, alcohol was sold at half price. In schools, during the elections It's to bring people in. Some consumer goods were sold, half the price, and this was how turnout was done. Such contempt for democracy as it was then in Belarus, as it is now, has really not been seen in all Europe, and thanks to my participation in the Council of Europe I have been on many observations. The facade of these 74% The European Council and Western Europeans are very often looking at whether the elections are well organised or not, looking at how many women are on the electoral committees. Well, in Belarus in this respect We are talking about 95%, an absolute record that would put Belarus among the most democratic countries. Not to mention that every election commission was also equipped so that people with disabilities could be reached there. I would also like to refer once again to this Council of Europe, because earlier, during these four years, the chairman of our delegation was Senator Bernacki, today the senator. I must say that, of course, we argued very often, but in these important matters for Poland we were very often able to speak with one voice and we were able to cooperate. And now I have to address the challenge of the Marshal. He's breaking up about this unity. [[Voice in the O.R.: He didn't say...]] No, you said Marshal The point is that in this case we should speak with one voice, together. I really agree with that. I just don't know where this gene came from, so that at the end of the call for us to come to such important things together, it had to be a stab and reference to Donald Tusk, who, as the last years have shown, is not in Polish politics. [[But he's in European.]] He's in European... [[Voice from the room: But not the Prime Minister...]] He's in Europe, he's the head of the faction. The attack on him right now... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, but Mr. Marshal... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, I would very much ask you to calm down.]] Mr. Marshal, I took it as a stab to the other side and a reminder that there's another Tusk's fault. I don't think that was necessary at all. That's how I felt about it. If your marshal's idea was different, more consistent, then I'm very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Am I allowed to ad vocem very briefly?]] There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u145	Mr. Senator, after all, my appeal... Just read the text of the amendment. This is just adding 2 points that expand the circle of people to whom we appeal in the European arena, people who perform specific, influential political functions, without giving names. My comment may have been personal, but my commentary in the resolution won't be. When we discussed our Eastern policy issues, when we talked about our internal aspects, there were also statements of a judgmental, commentary on whether this policy is, whether it is not, whether it was, whether it was positive or not. Well, we can't avoid a political debate. I made these amendments so that there wouldn't be so-called. political trips and to really widen the circle of people we are appealing to, for two people who, I think, still have concrete political influence in Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I can only add one thing. I thought we agreed everything on the committee for the last two days. We all voted on all the amendments, which is why it may not be understandable. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u147	There are two problems with your amendment, Mr. Marshal. First of all, this is an amendment on detail, which is reported at a time when we are talking about fundamentals. I would like to remind you that in this motion for a resolution we refer to issues such as the right of nations to self-determination, such as freedom and solidarity, which in the Polish political culture takes a prominent place, such as the right of citizens to participate in democratic elections, such as the obligation to respect and respect human rights, such as the value of dialogue, etc. We're talking about serious political instruments here, the National Security Council. There is no more important body involved in dialogue on our country's security issues than the RCN. We are talking about the Polish policy strategy for Belarus. We are talking about preparing to give refuge to the Belarusians. We are talking about really serious matters, and you are proposing that we introduce into the draft resolution a matter that can be dealt with by one phone call. Well, take the phone and call the President of the European Parliament delegation on Belarus. Again. I was the chairman of this delegation for 3 years, in 2004 and 2007 and I wouldn't be offended, and I would even be proud if the Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland called me on such an important matter. You don't have to make that amendment to make that call. Just take the phone and call the President of the European Parliament delegation. There is also a second problem, which is fundamental, ladies and gentlemen. We in this resolution recognised the uniqueness of the situation in which the Belarusians and Poles found themselves. We have risen above political divisions in this resolution. We in this resolution really touched what was the basis of Polish solidarity, the sense of Polish solidarity. We left our party IDs on the sidelines and decided to rise to a really high level. I don't want to say too exaltating, but we've really crossed the line, so to speak, ourselves, and we've reached a compromise. Am I pleased that this compromise does not include what I personally cared very much about and what was in the original text of the draft resolution, namely that the ministers of Poland, Germany and France together should point out: together they showed that it is possible to act effectively, as they did during Majdan in Ukraine in 2014? I'm not happy it's not there. I wish it was there. But that was part of the compromise with the club you represent. And I have withdrawn from this expectation. I believe that, in this situation, Senator Zdrojewski has the full right at the moment to restore, also by means of amendments, those issues from which we have resigned and which we consider important as regards the future shape of the resolution. Only that in this way we will lower ourselves to the traditional level, we will descend from the level to which we have climbed, working on this resolution for 2 days. And that is why I appeal, Mr. Marshal, to withdraw this amendment of yours. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Of course, the most important element of the resolution itself is to ask President Lukashenka, the government of Belarus, to stop repression, not to use force. But the second, the most important one, is the call for dialogue. How can we be credible here in the Senate if we break up the dialogue we started? How can we be credible if, after signing under a specific text and agreement, the agreement is concluded twice de facto Is it supposed to be compromised right away? I am not afraid to use names, therefore I will say immediately: we did not enter here by the name of President Andrzej Duda or Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We use the terms that are used for international institutions. But we know exactly who is our President, who is our Prime Minister, who is the President of the European Parliament, so we do not have to lean on it and build it in this way. I will also say right away that by withdrawing from some of the proposals that were in my version prepared for the Senate meeting, I really tried to be incontrovertible politically, I tried to build this text in the form of an appeal and certain expectations, pointing out that certain expectations were not met by previous governments, all of them, including the one in which I myself participated. But all the more so the agreement that we have reached and which has already had good judgment on social media should not be broken. I will, of course, return to these records if our appeal to the marshal is not heard, because I understand that the agreement will be terminated in this way. I also know very well who is behind these two institutions you mentioned. Nor am I afraid to say that in one case it is Donald Tusk, who is currently only the chairman of a faction, a political group, is not an institution, does not represent an EU institution. And I know that the second element is addressed to Robert Biedron, who is at the moment the President of the European Parliament delegation on relations with Belarus and represents a delegation which is not institutionally empowered to pursue any independent policy towards any country, including Belarus. So this is an absolutely politically and unacceptable appeal. For this reason, for the sake of this message, the strength of this message, the importance and importance of the dialogue we want to propose to Belarus, I ask you not to break this dialogue that we have had on this important issue, here and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u150	Thank you very much. Would any of your other senators like to... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] In that case, I'm closing the discussion... [[Oh, I'm making an amendment, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u151	Mrs. Marshal, may I make a motion? I'm asking on behalf of the parliamentary club for a 30-minute recess before... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: There will be a break soon, Mr. Marshal...]] Just before the committee meeting. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u152	There'll be a break in a minute. Therefore, I inform you that... [[The voice from the room: But this...]] So now I'm gonna take a break? [[Yes.]] Well, since you're the marshal asking for a break for the club, And this is going to be a different gap than the one at the committee's meeting. I'm in charge of 30 minutes' break. After this break, which is 6:40 p.m., we're gonna end the discussion... I mean. We will return to this discussion and decide on whether or not we will have to convene a committee meeting. [[Voice from the room: How long?]] Let's do half an hour until 6:40. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 10 to 18 minutes 39]] I'm reopening the session. Mr. Marshal Pop is speaking. Please, I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The intention of my amendment, which gave rise to such a strong response from the senators, was to broaden the circle of people to whom we are appealing for influential, in my opinion, people working in European structures and at the political level of the European Union. I believe that an effective response to this extremely important and painful problem in Belarus is only possible at European level if we hear a very strong position, a uniform, consistent, well-thought-out position at European Union level. And that was the whole intention, there were no others. Therefore, I will withdraw my amendment because, above all, I want the High House to adopt such a resolution, a resolution that can be signed by all senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u154	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u155	I would like to thank the senator and also withdraw my amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u156	Thank you very much. In that case, the discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, as the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place immediately after the debate, I am ordering a five-minute break so that the senators can appear in the Chamber for the vote. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 41 to 18 minutes 47]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the motion for a resolution. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of the resolution on the situation in Belarus will want to press the right button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators took part in the vote and 86 senators voted in favour of the resolution. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the situation in Belarus. [[Applause]] [[Everybody up.]] [[Some senators keep the white and red and white flag of Belarus upstairs]] We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the amendment of the Prison Service Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 166 and the Commission's reports in print No 166 A and No 166 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Victor Durlak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor and joy for me to present for the first time a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration held on 30 July. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please remain calm.]] During the committee meeting, we worked on a law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The primary objective of the Act is to ensure optimum conditions for officers to serve and to create legal instruments to motivate them to remain in it for as long as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the contested law introduces changes in several areas, including: the possibility of granting incentive benefits to officials with an internship of over 25 years of service, the possibility of strengthening the legal protection of officers involved in criminal proceedings, the possibility of granting an equivalent amount of money for unused leave, boarding in kind and providing money in exchange for meals. The last such important area is the disciplinary responsibility of the officers. High Izbo, at the committee meeting he was present Mr Maciej Wąsik, who discussed the proposed law, also present today. There were also representatives of uniformed services. The president of the customs trade unions also took the floor. Maybe I'll tell you more in a moment. The Legislative Office proposed 13 amendments, mainly editorial and precise. One of the most important amendments of these 13 proposed was to feed in nature for the so-called. Local cops. 3 amendments were tabled by me. These amendments aim to further support uniformed services. The first increases the amount of legal protection expenses to be reimbursed to officers. According to the proposed amendment, the officer would be reimbursed for the costs of legal protection at the level of the costs actually incurred, but not more than four times the average salary of the police officers. Previously, this amount was smaller. The second amendment concerns a revision of the rules so that the police and firefighters who, after leaving the service, have completed their employment period. Thus, the existing grounds for excluding the right to qualify for the service period have been clarified. The purpose of the third amendment is to clarify the provisions in order to eliminate interpretation doubts. All the amendments were adopted unanimously by the committee, which I think is worth highlighting. The bill is well prepared. It meets the expectations of the officers concerned. It is worth noting that in the Seym this draft law was supported by 440 Members. The regulations are to apply from 1 October, except for parts of the provisions to enter into force on 30 November 2020 and 1 January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration voted in favour of the bill, together with the amendments tabled unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was nine years ago in Senator Durlak's situation. Since then, I have been somewhat over the thrill of being a rapporteur. Thank you very much to the senator, because his report makes my task easier. As for the amendments that you referred to by the senator, there are two differences in the two amendments. It's in the article. 1 in point 43 lit. and in the mouth. 3 a sentence has been added in cases of particular complexity and need to be completed with evidence, the appeal shall be examined no later than 60 days. The point is, if I remember correctly, issues regarding the disciplinary responsibility of the officers. But it was also amended, after consultation, at the initiative of the Legislative Bureau, by an amendment, which is marked with number 24. It's about art. 9. And, if I am not mistaken, in addition to the amendment, which is marked with number 10, which concerns disciplinary proceedings, all the other amendments, those which were included in our report, were supported by the Ministry. But if I was wrong here, then of course, correct me. In addition, I can only say that my amendment concerning the Prison Service Act, which was requested by representatives of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union Officers and Prison Workers, which was intended to make them also subject to these new rules, did not find recognition in the eyes of the Ministry and was lost in the vote. Also those demands which. and this is in the documents that are in committee They were directed by the Polish National Tax Administration Trade Union, they did not find recognition in the eyes of the Ministry. We will probably have to, if we continue to agree on this, as we have so far, organise a joint meeting of both committees tomorrow, because our amendments adopted differ. And I think as far as my report is concerned, that would be all. And without wanting to take away the excitement and joy of the first presentation of the report, I would very much ask you to direct as many questions as possible to my esteemed fellow senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jerzy Wiszyła, to see Senator Victor Durlak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u161	Thank you. I am fulfilling the request of Senator Aleksander Pociej and to senior senators I will not direct questions, but to young internships. And I wanted to ask the senator if there was any controversy in the law on uniformed services where one uniform service was left out? I'm talking about the Customs Service, which as the only uniform service isn't covered by the privileges that this bill gives. And if that was the case, what were the reasons why this service should not be included in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u162	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Of course, I can only relate to what was at the committee meeting. As I said earlier, the meeting was attended by the Trade Union President, Mr Sławomir Siwa. If I remember correctly, he raised the problem. You answered the question of the Minister who explained the matter that it was for procedural reasons. There seems to have been some mistake, the request was not made in due time by the Minister of Finance. Let us not forget that the Customs Service falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, not the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. As I recall, the Minister has even partially accepted this interpretation, to the changes proposed by the Head of Union, but I will not take the floor of the Minister, the Minister will explain all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u164	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a question for the senator, President Alexander Pociej. What is the difference between these two uniformed services, i.e. the National Tax Administration and the Prison Service, which have less favourable regulations resulting from different business pragmatisms? Are there any formal grounds for differentiation between these services?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u166	Mr. Senator, I don't see any difference. From our discussion and from the speech of the NSZZ representative Officers and Prison Workers it was apparent that the supervising Minister of Justice had signed these services, and it was some time ago, as the chairman said, appropriate agreements. Mr President expressed his surprise that the Prison Service is not covered by the provisions of this law. Minister Wąsik's reply, especially as regards the National Tax Administration, was that, in fact, during the course of the government arrangements at a certain stage of the work, it was said to include these records also the National Tax Administration, but, first, the case was put at too late a stage, and secondly, the National Tax Administration's supervisor, the Ministry of Finance, was simply late in this regard. In general, we have the Prison Service here, which is supervised by the Minister of Justice, which is also not the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs. From the discussion that followed between the president of the union of officers and prison workers... It would seem that these services, apart from the supervisor, are not really any different. The Minister added that this idea is, let's say, in some sense an experiment to show whether these solutions will be good and will work in some services, and in the case of others, that this is possibly the future, but not at this stage. And that was the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u167	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Maciej Wąsik is in the room. We welcome you very cordially. And I don't think I have to ask anymore. The Minister wants to present the government's position on this matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel obliged to present, it is not a matter of my desire or of my ignorance, because I believe that this is an extremely important act. Besides, in the committees we worked together, incredibly in agreement, and it seems to me that we understand each other and realise that this law is intended to bring benefits to itself. It is intended to benefit uniformed services because it provides for many facilities, changes in pragmatic laws. First of all, he gives uniforms what uniforms have been asking for for for a long time. As we well know, we all have to work for our pensions, for men up to the age of sixty-five, for women up to the age of sixty, and we remember that this ceiling was lowered anyway. In uniformed services, 25 years of uniform service are needed to reach retirement age, if someone is currently employed in the service. Well, those regulations used to be different. And it is often the case that people who can work further and should work further from the service, because they are in the prime of their age, because they are at the height of their intellectual abilities, often also physical, because they are people who care about their physical preparation and are certainly well prepared to take care of our safety. And we're having trouble getting some jobs in the service. The police, which have over 100,000 jobs, have 7,000 vacancies. These 7,000 vacancies would be very useful to us, for example, to rebuild a network of stations to rebuild 400 police stations closed after 2012. So far we've been able to rebuild about 130, we want to rebuild them all. And we want to offer police officers, border guards, BOR officers... excuse me, SOP, prison officers such a simple deal: you've reached retirement age, but keep working if you can, and we'll give you an incentive supplement. After 25 years of service it will be 1 thousand 500 PLN, and after reaching 28.5 years of service, i.e. this maximum maximum pension service in uniform services 2 thousand 500 PLN. Of course, there is one condition: a positive professional opinion. In the police, in other services, this service opinion is the norm, there is the whole caselaw, there is an appeal to the court, so that this supplement is intended to be universal. You want to, you can continue working for the state. I'll tell you that with pain of heart I look at some police careers, when a young man goes to the police at the age of 20, after 20 years, reaching 40, he already has some experience, knowledge of life, goes to officer studies, becomes officer, this officer is a year, two, three and retires. For all this, you must pay for this officer's school as well. It's all costing money. And, ladies and gentlemen, his knowledge and experience are simply invaluable. We need for you experienced people in the fire department, the Prison Service, the State Security Service, the Border Guard and, above all, the State Police. This bill will be a step towards it. And there's another element. We want these allowances to finance themselves from unpaid pensions. That's how it's constructed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the High Senate aware of one thing. The average length of service in uniform services in Poland is 25 years, the average time of retirement is 26,5 years. If we can move this forward, by one year, by two to three years longer working time at the expense of retirement, it will be a huge financial savings that we want to spend on these allowances. Of course, if someone doesn't want to work any longer because they can't, their health won't let him or they have another idea for life, it's free. There is full voluntaryity here, so he can, of course, retire on the basis of the rules of the past. We know that it is necessary to strengthen the position of officers, to strengthen the legal protection of officers, and that is what we provide. If an officer accused of any act related to the service obtains acquittal or the court finds that an act which was alleged to that officer is not a crime, then the chief will be able to finance his legal protection. This hasn't happened so far. That's what officers need, who are often conscripted by criminals. Well, there is, of course, a situation where the court finds that an officer has exceeded his authority or committed a criminal offence and then, of course, he must be punished. In such a situation, there will be no return. But what if he is acquitted or when it turns out that the court considers that the act was not a crime? In such situations, the state can finance him legal protection, in fact finance his proxy, finance his lawyer. This law also removes a certain injustice, which has been visible for years in Polish services, mainly in the Police and Border Guard, and it was not in the fire department. It's about the cash equivalent for untapped vacations. A policeman who, for example, He retired and had a late leave, for every day of his vacation he received 1/30 wages. However, it is known that in the month for 30 days there are 21 working days. If he had taken this vacation earlier, if the servants had let him go on this vacation He usually can't go on leave because he's needed in the ministry. It is this holiday that would extend his rest time, which was paid. So that now it will be, as is in the labour code, 1/21 salary for every day of overdue leave. This situation has been noted by the Constitutional Tribunal and we are fixing this situation by this law. We also regulate certain rights here, which is the right to feed in nature and to provide money in exchange for food. It has always been, but in the regulation, and we move it to the law, as these rights should be in the laws, not in the regulations. We also simplify these rules so that they can be calculated efficiently, not to refer to the calorie value of half of the egg, etc., etc. This case, I think, Mariusz Kaminski settled earlier in the regulation, but we are moving it to the bill so that there is a full legislative consequence. We are also amending certain provisions on the disciplinary responsibility of officers. We are not introducing regulations here, we are rather harmonising these provisions. A major change is in the case of one service, the Border Guard, which so far had these provisions of quasi-court proceedings in the regulation, and at the moment we are transferring the entire regulation to the law. As the Constitutional Tribunal once pointed out, quasi-court proceedings should be in the law. From such minor issues, but noted by parliamentarians, both Members and Senators... You pointed out that, in the case of voluntary firefighters, the use of vehicles purchased abroad often involves high costs of financing appropriate certificates, which cost between PLN 50 and 80 thousand. At the moment, we are changing the rules so that only the technical opinion is needed and that this voluntary fire department does not have to bear such huge costs of adapting this vehicle to Polish conditions. So all we need is a technical opinion. It's a minor change, but it's due to the many comments you've made to us. So thank you, we're doing it. I ask the High House to accept this bill. Let me add that the Sejm, as the rapporteur said... In Seym 440 Members voted in favour and 3 were against, but as far as I know, this was not their proper intention. They wanted to vote for, unfortunately, a remote vote is often conducive to mistakes. So that one can say that the Sejm unanimously adopted this law. To be honest, I hope that the Senate will also be able to adopt it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can already see the calls. I'd like to ask Senator Jerzy Wcisla's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal, I'll try to ask you four questions at once. Well, I see here a clear omission of one uniform service. I would like to know if this bill was subject to inter-ministerial agreements that would allow to detect that 1 uniform service falls under the Ministry of Finance. How come it wasn't detected? Well, I understand that the intention is that Customs-Scarb Service should also be included in this bill, but someone left it out. Has this been identified in the inter-ministerial arrangements? We have heard from the rapporteur that this problem was also identified during committee meetings. I have here a letter dated 9 June, a letter from the Ministry of Finance, in which the Ministry of Finance points out that this law must also include the Customs-Scarb Service. Was there not enough time from 10 June to today's meeting to prepare the corresponding self-correction and introduce the Customs-Scarb Service into this law? Are the answers to this question positive? Was that the intention? Tell me, Minister, if the government intends to extend the Customs-Scarb Service to those provisions which have been extended to other uniformed services. And if not, why not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u171	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Well, I was expecting that question. This question is raised at every stage of the legislative process, at every committee meeting. I will consistently repeat the same explanation. First of all, Mr. Senator, not one service was left out, but 7 services were left out, 5 special forces, military, and, of course, KAS. I'll admit, our intention was to make a bill for the Homeland Security Service. Well, these allowances, which are the main, most important element of this bill, will be financed from the MSWiA Pension and Retirement Facility. I'm not authorized to write the IRS bill. However, the law was, of course, subject to inter-ministerial agreements. Within the framework of these inter-ministerial arrangements, 2 ministries notified their willingness to join this law. It was the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, except that the Ministry of Justice had made appropriate amendments, and the Ministry of Finance had not tabled any amendments, but only at the stage of the work of the Council of Ministers sent a letter that they would also like to participate. Well, that was after the entire legislative process and the decision of the government of the Ministry of Finance has not yet been covered. Let me put it this way: it was the situation of the COVID, the situation after the lockdown, when the whole government was dealing with the fight against the effects of the COVID. Well, it was actually a special situation. I believe, Senator, that we must work this bill in the form it is. It's supposed to be a test too. Well, the main principle taken into account in the OSR is that these allowances will be financed from unpaid pensions. We need to see how this works, assess this mechanism, balance it. It's never gonna be zero, we're never gonna be exactly zero, but it might turn out to be savings. According to the information I received from the Police Headquarters, the number of police officers who retired in the first half of the year is, if I count correctly, eight times lower than in the same period last year. I hope I remember it well, and I've multiplied it well right now. Yeah, that's what we meant. If a policeman or another officer doesn't retire, we don't have to pay him that pension, and with the money we've saved, we can finance the benefits. Let me put it this way: I'm convinced by the arguments of the KAS officers who come and say they want extras, too. It convinces me, but it needs to be prepared. It's not about writing one recipe. This is a whole system of rules, a whole group of very important rules that must be carefully prepared. If this works for the Home Office and Prison Service, I will be the first to support this extension not only to the National Tax Administration, not only to customs officers, but also to all other services that are covered by the uniform pension system, namely the special services and the military. If, of course, it is the will of the Ministry, because the military, however, is a slightly different nature of the service, perhaps these physical predispositions must be greater here than in other departments. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u173	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u174	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, this subject was raised by the senator, perhaps Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. It is about the equivalent of unused leave, which the Minister mentioned at the moment as something that was regulated. It's true. However, some number of people who have fought for this equivalent have not been covered, because this practically applies to those who, since 2018, probably since October or November, have passed... [[Voice from the room: November.]] Everyone else isn't involved. Can this problem be solved by the Ministry, or do they really have to go to court to fight for their rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, well, you should have put that cesarean somewhere, and we put that cesarea at the time of the verdict. We thought that the laws, and there is a presumption of constitutionality of laws... that until a certain point was in force and those equivalents were paid. At some point, the Constitutional Tribunal declared the provision unconstitutional. Well, I have a question, Mr. Senator, how far are we going to go backwards? That's the question. I believe that one thing must be accepted: until the judgment, there were such rules and, after the judgment, these rules changed. That's a lot of things, Senator. That is the case in many cases, and if the Constitutional Tribunal undermines certain provisions... Well, we will not bear the costs that have arisen for many, many years, for example, the costs of changing many laws associated with it. So that this is the main cost of this law, as defined in the OSR, reaching, as I remember correctly, about PLN 0.5 billion in 10 years. That's how much it's gonna cost us to change. For example, if we wanted to make this change since 2001, I can't tell you what the costs would be. I'm not quite sure that the services are keeping records on the basis of which it could be calculated what the real causes of this are. I don't know if we have that duty. I think so. In accordance with what my legal services tell me, that we do not have such an obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u177	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question, although you have said a few words about this, but I would like to clarify. As the Ministry estimates, how many police officers Especially police officers, although you were also talking about vacancies. Will he remain in service thanks to this legal support of police officers? Well, here I'm sure there are police officers who are most experienced. Nevertheless, maintaining this provision in the longer term will be an incentive, including for these younger police officers, to remain in the service. What are the estimates of the ministry about staying police officers in the service? How much will this allow you to think that even though there are 7,000 vacancies, it will be possible for police officers to carry out their duties?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u178	Mr. Senator, I believe there are 13,000 uniform officers at the moment who have reached the 20th year of service. So at the moment, 13,000 people from the police, the Border Guard, the Fire Department and the SOP could leave. Such a departure could actually paralyze the Polish security system. It's never gonna happen that everyone leaves at one point, but we have to do this incentive system. I'll answer in a slightly different way, Mr. Senator: that's what we predicted... We don't want to operate on numbers here, how many are left, how many are left, we don't know that. But our goal was to extend the service period, the average service period from 25 to 28. If, at the same time, the average age of life does not change slightly, we will be paying the pension not 26,5 years, only 23,5 years. That is the purpose of this bill that we have set ourselves. Of course, we will be able to verify this target in many years. Nevertheless, we will be able to retire immediately after the number at a given age... We are, of course, monitoring this, the chief commandant and the chiefs of all services have this knowledge, and this knowledge is also available to the MSWiA pension establishment. We'll monitor it. These first symptoms seem to be extremely promising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u179	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u180	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I very much like the bill. I am very pleased that it concerns uniformed services. The Minister said why it did not include the National Tax Administration, due to the late request of the Ministry of Finance. And why didn't the bill cover Sorry about the colloquialism. With their full benefits to another service, the Prison Service? What has prevented these solutions from being included in the service allowance for years of service and work on a similar basis as in the uniformed services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the Senate, well, let me say this: of course, the bill includes the Prison Service in the basic scope, i.e. in terms of motivational allowances. And now a Prison Service officer who gets 25 years of service will get 1 thousand 500 zlotys if he has a positive opinion. And if he's in the service, he's probably got a positive opinion. He's gonna get this supplement. But, well, we don't want to go too far into matters under the Minister of Justice anymore. I understand the senator's care as a former Minister of Justice, for the Prison Service, and I realise that this was discussed at the committee meeting. But this is a system change. She should go through three seym readings. The declaration by the trade unions, with the consent of one of the senators, of course, at the stage of the Senate committee's work, is incorrect from a legislative point of view in my view. Although I agree that all services should indeed have similar rules on service of years. Of course, as we talked about in the clowns, perhaps in the end all services should have the same pragmatic laws regulated by their powers. If they have such a need, of course. And such service pragmatism, all social privileges, uniforms, holidays, service of years. Perhaps that's the way it should be. But the state is that each service has its law, well, except for the Military Intelligence Service, counterintelligence, as well as the ABW and AW, which have some issues solved in one law and the same. But perhaps in the end, we should all uniformed services in certain areas level up, give them only other tasks that should be carried out. I believe that the amendment of this type should not be adopted at such a legislative stage, abstracting from merhology, because it should go through 3 sejm readings. Besides, I think at the last committee meeting, the legislator, with whom we were working quite well, admitted to us that it could actually be, well, even unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u182	Thank you very much. The list of senators wanting to ask the question has been exhausted, so thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] And I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! The Law on Special Solutions for Support of Uniform Services responds to a specific problem Retiring from experienced uniformed personnel. To this end, the Act introduces instruments to motivate officers to remain in service as long as possible, including in particular incentive allowances for police officers, Border Guards, State Security Services, State Fire and Prison Service who decide to remain in service instead of retiring after 25 years of work. Unfortunately, the scope of the law was not covered by customs officers of the National Tax Administration, without a doubt by the uniformed service, which also carried out police tasks. Customs guard Polish borders with officers... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, we have a great request. Could you get close to the microphone because you can't hear very well?]] You want me to start over? [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: No, that's okay. It's all about you being closer to the microphone.]] Good. Unfortunately, the scope of the law was not covered by customs officers of the National Tax Administration, without a doubt by the uniformed service, which also carried out police tasks. Customs guard Polish borders together with Border Guard officers. Like them, they put their lives and their health at risk, fighting crime. So there is no reason for them not to be treated the same way. Interestingly, the Ministry of Finance appeared in the matter of the inclusion of customs officers in the act, recognising the logic of the omission of uniformed services performing similar functions as the Police or the Border Guard. The logic of this exclusion is all the more blatant because the problem of retirement of officers is the most acute in Customs because it is the oldest uniform service. So this is where action needs to be taken to keep officers with a lot of experience and knowledge at work. Customs activities generate a large part of the budget revenue and, for this reason, the State should depend on keeping the most experienced staff at work. With the scale of the benefits that the government is eager to boast about, the cost of the Customs Act is simply a small investment. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that, assuming to remain in the service of at least 40o/60% officers will cost about 20 million in the first year, allowing about 400 officers to stay at work, and about 870 million in 10 years. The Minister claims that customs officers must wait for the government to see if it can afford to encourage customs officials not to retire. I'm afraid, Minister, that customs will not wait and simply retire. A very important aspect of the law on uniformed services, whether they are supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs or by the Minister of Finance, should be the same treatment of officers and ensure uniform powers for them. As a rule, customs officers will be excluded. Therefore, on my own behalf, as well as Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Janusz Pęcherz, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadim Tyszkiewicz, I make amendments that eliminate this clear defect of the bill and which will lead to the inclusion of customs and treasure officers in the group of beneficiaries of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We're working on a very important bill today. It is, of course, expected by uniformed services, not only by uniformed services subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, because not everyone is so lucky that his minister made sure that the bill was in such a shape as to satisfy the service. We're talking about a really big problem here. The bill we're adopting today will cover 9,000 officers in the case of the police. These are your data, the data you gave. Because of the short... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Officers, I'm sorry. Just the cops. I'm not talking about firefighters, I'm not talking about other services. A law in this shape in the case of the Prison Service, due to the short internship of the officers... Let me tell you what this is all about. Guess how many of the 27,000 officers will take the bill? It'll cover 369. After all, we do not want to adopt a law which, on such assumptions, is fictional. We want her to actually include the Prison Service. We are fighting the Polish Ministry. This is the purpose of Prime Minister Morawiecki, whom he has been talking about for weeks. I do not agree to divide uniformed services into those who are more fortunate because they are under the authority of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and those who are less fortunate because they are under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Justice. If we adopt system solutions to keep the best in the service And that's what the Polish state needs. This is what we need to create solutions that will actually meet the expectations of the officers. Please note that I supervised the Prison Service for several years and it was an extraordinary experience for me. I value and respect the work of cops and firemen, but a policeman, if lucky, has contact with a criminal when he puts him in the act or in the course of his activities. Consider that a Prison Service officer is in contact with this criminal throughout his professional life. That's the dramatic difference in the situation. Do you know that prison services are the most common departures before the acquisition of pension rights? These are hard statistics you can get to know. What does that tell you? This job is extremely stressful. Think of the stress of a prison officer who's a educator and who comes into contact day after day with people who have committed a crime. From the point of view of the state and the citizen, we must remember that more than 98% The perpetrators who serve in prisons will be released. What do I care about as a citizen? In order for a prison officer who is a educator to rehabilitate this inmate And the more experience he has, the better. Therefore, the Polish state is interested in arresting these officers, and not 300 sixty-nine. The Minister is in a very awkward position. I don't direct these remarks to you. You've done your job, prepared a bill for the uniformed services you're subject to. But here's the good news: we're after a briefing at the Legal Office and these amendments are lucky not to exceed the scope of the Senate's statutory authorizations. That is why, of course, together with Senator Wcisla, with Senator Czarnobaj, with Senator Tyszkiewicz I'm sorry I didn't mention them all, but I don't have those corrections in front of me right now... oh, I'm already looking. Senator Pociej and I have tabled these amendments so that the same rules can be applied to the Prison Service. Because it is in the interests of the Polish state, that is, in the interests of all of us. And, of course, I am not convinced by the argument that the Minister of Finance in the case of the National Tax Administration had tabled these amendments too late, because fortunately there is a parliament, because fortunately there is a Senate and can make such amendments at the legislative stage, if he is doing so according to the legislative art I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And we do not feel exempt from this obligation, but, on the contrary, we will, of course, carry it out. Moreover, in relation to the uniformed service, the state and the minister supervising it is most important to trust. I know how everyone who serves as a minister or a deputy minister must be able to build his authority in overseeing uniform service. There's nothing worse to pick up that authority than an unfulfilled word. I hold in my hands an agreement signed on 19 November 2018 by the Minister of Justice, in this case specifically signed by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice supervising the Prison Service and the President of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union Officers and Prison Workers. What do we read in §4 of the agreement signed by a representative of the Polish government? The Minister of Justice shall draw up and present a draft amendment to the pragmatic law introducing no later than 1 January 2020 the principle of inclusion in the service allowance for years of service and work on an equivalent basis as in the uniformed services under the Ministry of Justice. And we can fulfill that promise. Thanks to these amendments we have prepared, this agreement, which was signed almost two years ago, will be implemented. And it was supposed to apply from 1 January this year. Ladies and gentlemen, one more argument. I have already talked about the importance of the Prison Service in terms of the security of all of us citizens. But I have to tell you that when I supervised the Prison Service, I made several dozen prisons and arrests, and I saw that you had the most experienced officers, those who were educators for 10, 15 or 25 years. If today we have only a few hundred such officers throughout the prison service, I fear that in a certain rivalry between the prison service and the co-chaired, who do not turn their cellmates into better people at all, the prison service has no chance of winning if we fail to stop the best ones with years of internship. Which prevents uniforms from accepting those who want to go to the Prison Service, e.g. from the police, and get them a service of years? There's one thing I have to tell you. Today, you were talking about a vacancy at the police station. How many job vacancies are there in Prison Service? There are 1 000 700 job vacancies in relatively small service. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the Prison Service is seen as the most difficult of all services, and it is often a choice which is made more due to family traditions, sometimes the location of the prison, but it is not always the first choice for those who want to wear a uniform and on behalf of the Polish State to carry out their duties. That's why I'd like to ask you to convince me about the whole room. For us to accept these amendments. I am absolutely convinced that we are doing this in the interest of not only the Prison Service, the National Tax Administration, but in the interest of the Polish State, that these amendments simply, to say the least, serve the fulfilment of those obligations which are imposed on the State. Let's remember one more thing at the end. After 25 years of service, a uniformed officer acquires the right to a pension, but this is a 60% pension. Let us give them a chance to serve longer, serve the Polish state, take advantage of their experiences. Thanks to this they will have higher pensions, but thanks to this the Polish state will also perform its duties better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko, Viktor Durlak, Benjamin Godyla and Janusz Błucherz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators: Bogdan Borusewicz, Janusz Pęcherz, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Jerzy Wcisła, Aleksander Pociej, Leszek Czarnobaj and Wadim Tyszkiewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to briefly refer to the discussion that took place here and to Senator Vistula's statement. I would like to say one thing: the government has done a lot for customs. The government of law and justice, which I represent, has included Customs in the uniform group. These pension arrangements have been adopted by the Government of Law and Justice. Earlier, this imbalance was enormous. And let me remind you that customs officers have been asking for these powers, Minister, for a very, very long time, and the previous government team has not listened to their demands. The Government of Law and Justice gave the customs officers exactly what they wanted. So much for the relationship between law and justice with customs, which is, of course, very positive. Like I said, I understand these arguments. They'll be taken into account in some way. I also understand what Minister Kwiatkowski is proposing. I'm a little surprised by the attitude of the Legislative Bureau, because yesterday at the committee meeting, his position was different, but positions evolve and change under various arguments, and I'm forced to accept it. But I don't want to. Because I have no such authority to refer to the amendments tabled on behalf of the Ministry of Justice or the Government. I'm neither authorized nor prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. It is included in print No 138 and the committee's report In print No 138 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. If you don't mind, I'll be on my way. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a law was adopted on 30 April 2020, which concerned police powers and introduced changes that made life easier for victims of domestic violence. The idea was to separate the perpetrator of violence from the victims of violence, so that the separation would be immediate, and to prepare the services that would be responsible for it as soon as possible. Despite our shortcomings or legislative shortcomings, we have recognised that the objective that we achieve by this law alone is important enough to make a deal with the government. We have adopted a draft submitted by the government without any amendments to help the victims of crime as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is increasing, the scale of domestic violence in the pandemic period has really increased. To help these victims, we didn't look at the details of the bill to help those in need as soon as possible. But we also agreed that we would proceed with its amendment to correct these shortcomings. One of the shortcomings that we considered to be quite important was the date of entry into force of the Act, which was set at 30 November 2020. The members of the committees required to work on the Act concluded that the best date for the implementation of the Act and the solutions contained therein would be 1 September. Today is, as you know, August 11th, so the entry into force of the Act on 1 September is simply impossible. Is the cause of this state of affairs in the Senate? No, because we couldn't get to work until the president signed the bill. We waited for the President's signature, and after his submission, we immediately started our work. In addition to the improvements in these shortcomings that I mentioned earlier, we mainly included the Blue Card in the Military Gendarmery procedure. If the family's bad, and it's a military family, the police won't go in there, but we thought it was worth taking care of the military police with the same powers as the police. So we extended the Blue Card procedure to the Military Gendarmery. We considered it very important to get the perpetrator of violence out of the place where this violence happens, from his apartment, from his home, from his common place of residence... to extend the bill to a restraining order against the victims of violence. New solutions, which the joint committees considered at 2 consecutive meetings, required amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, and in accordance with the principles of legislation, if we make such amendments to the Code, the Act must change its title. This is also what you have in the report, in such a single project. I will tell you the briefest about the problems that we have raised many times in this House: the procedure has been extended to the Military Gendarmery, all the shortcomings related to legislation have been resolved, the restraining order has been extended to the crime scene and to the persons to whom the crime has been committed. This includes a report from the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions in print No 138 S. I recommend that you adopt these solutions and, at the same time, I propose 2 amendments to complement the applicable legislation on... Excuse me, I've lost the text of the amendments in a number of papers. The point is, we're expanding our powers... one second, I really don't care. These papers sometimes seem very mean. The changes concern the addition of records of such a casus... It's a restraining order against a person affected by family violence, a warrant or a ban that has been extended. I propose that these amendments be accepted and that the report in print No 138 S be adopted. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u190	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the amendments will still be tabled by the senator, it might be worthwhile to also make an amendment concerning the entry into force of the law so that it is real.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u192	There's an amendment. [[Please? Is there an amendment?]] There's an amendment, but I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u193	And an article higher. It's about art. 7, which also changes the date of entry into force. They're correlated. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u194	Yes. That's what the amendment is about. I didn't mention her.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u195	Thank you very much, Senator. As usual, I am under the impression of your substantial preparation for every debate. Thank you very much for your answer, Senator. As I understand it, there are no other questions. Is the government representative... I'm asking you a question, Minister, which I believe will put away... The Minister has put off the phone, but he doesn't want to speak on the matter. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank you for how we worked on this change in the Legislative Commission, so with such an absolute reference to what is most important, i.e. how to limit domestic violence in Poland. I immediately say that I do not know Polish statistics, but when we analyzed statistics from countries such as: The United States, typhoons statistics, hurricanes in the south of the United States, Asian countries statistics... Everywhere in those countries where there was a situation So far, these have been mainly climate events that relatively led to the imprisonment of large groups of people in their places of residence, unfortunately there has been a deterioration of statistics in the context of domestic violence. I hope that was not the case in Poland. However, with this in mind and knowing that, of course, domestic violence is a problem everywhere in the world that operates on a smaller or larger scale, I thank you once again very warmly for this joint work. I'm asking for a reception as soon as possible. At this meeting, of course. This project, because I have no doubt that this is another legislative change which seals the system related to the reduction of domestic violence, both in the context of the resolution of legislative shortcomings and in the context of the granting of these powers to the uniformed service, the Military Gendarmerie. Unfortunately, no family. Also military families They are not excluded from domestic violence, but it is fitting for all of us to wish that these events were as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed has made his speech to the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Magdalena Kochan. [[I would like to join you on the request made by Senator Kwiatkowski, namely to ask your marshal to consider this bill at this Senate meeting.]] The discussion is closed. As I understand it, a government representative would like to... Would you like to comment on the proposals put forward, Minister? [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, the government has not taken a position...]] He didn't take his position... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would like to inform you that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Kochan have requested the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. High Senate, we begin to consider item 18 of the agenda: the Minister of Interior and Administration's information on the actions and detentions carried out by the Police during protests in Warsaw on 7 and 8 August this year. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Maciej Wąsik, to speak and present information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 7 August 2020, the District Court in Warsaw IX of the Criminal Appeals Division decided to take into account the prosecutor's complaint and decided to apply a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest for a period of 2 months. The temporary detention was applied to a case conducted by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw. Reference to the case: 1Ds 169/2020. This case concerned a criminal incident in Warsaw on 27 June 2020 at Wilcza 30, where Mr Michał S., acting together with other persons, committed a violent attack on two other persons, as a result of the assassination of one of these persons, Łukasz K., was pushed, struggled, turned on the sidewalk. This person was forced to behave in a specific way, and this person was tried to take his mobile phone. As a result of this incident, Mr. Łukasz K. suffered injuries. Michał S. along with others also destroyed property in the form of car tires, which were pierced with a knife, a car tarpaulin which was cut with a knife, a broken mirror and a destroyed registration plate of the car, which were moved by two people who were attacked on Wilcza Street. Like I said, it was a classic crime scene. The order of the court of 7 August was communicated to the parties. As far as I can tell, there was an attorney named Michael S in custody. At 4:40 p.m., after the court order, he was taken to the CID. The police took the necessary steps to determine the whereabouts of Michał S. I would like to add that the District Court in Warsaw gave its order a clause of immediate feasibility. At the same time, and in fact a little later, at 5:15 p.m., police officers from patrol services received a call about a convention that took place at the intersection of 3 May Street and Solec Street in Warsaw Powiśle, in front of the headquarters of the Association of Campania v Homophobia. The police officers of the anti-opportunity units who showed up at the scene were appalled by the aggression of the crowd. There were about 100 and 150 people there. I would like to say this: they were police officers from the regular patrol service who were sent there by the duty officer, because it was suspected that this was the association Which was already the object of some sort of incident, the attacks may have been in some way attacked. And they were actually on their way to bring peace and order here. What a surprise they were when they were actually attacked by people who surrounded Michael S. Because there Mr. Michał S. was present. As you can see in the media, Mr.Michał S., who behaved provocatively, demanded police officers to stop themselves, thus inciting and so aggressively acting group. In a theatrical gesture, when he put his hands out, he screamed for handcuffs. At the same time, people accompanying Michałów S. chanted extremely vulgar shouts at police and justice, including the court. You'll allow the marshal not to quote those screams. But if the High Senate wishes it, I can quote it. [[Minister, you're not joking about a situation that I believe is serious.]] In view of the aggression of the crowd, the cops who came there called for reinforcements. They pulled out and called in reinforcements. As the organizers of the convention conducted, as was seen in social media, on-line transmissions, there were more and more new people who participated in this gathering at Solc. Meanwhile, in this place, on Solc, there were criminal police officers who did not have much difficulty establishing the whereabouts of Michał S., as he was in the social media during this demonstration at that time. However, in view of the small police forces and the aggressive crowd, they have not decided to comply with the court's orders, which is, of course, perfectly understandable. Around 6:55 p.m., the gathered people together with Michał S. began marching along the sidewalks towards the church of the Holy Cross in Kraków Przedmieście in Warsaw. From the information that reached the police officers, shouts, conversations, it was clear that these people were going there with intent to invade and probably destroy the place of worship, the destruction of the church. It was called, among other things. To do the demolition, the slogans were thrown: "We are going to Christ!" This information was sent to the on-call office, so that the church of the Holy Cross was secured by police officers called there urgently. Around 19.20 in Kraków Przedmieście, near the monument Copernicus Michał S. came to the front of the moving group and was then detained by a uniformed police officer in the assistance of police officers from the KSP Crime Division. At the sight of Michał S.'s arrest, some of the people around him responded with extreme aggression. They started to jerk and reprimand police officers, trying to force them to withdraw from the activities for which, let me remind you, the District Court in Warsaw imposed a clause of immediate feasibility. When a detained person was placed in a police car, the crowd tried to open the door, kicked into the body, several people jumped on the roof, mask and trunk, and the antenna was ripped off. All the time, policemen were being insulted, policemen were chanted... Forgive me, I have these screams written here, but I will not, also because of the ears of the High House, quote. Nevertheless, there were insults of the highest sort. Let me just remind you that police officers were also involved in securing this incident, at which address these insults were directed. The police were also led by insulting gestures, provocative gestures. A group of dozens of participants sat around the car in which Michał S., as a person detained, and in front of this car, blocking his departure. Around 8:00 p.m., police officers in prevention, using physical force, restraining grips, removed the people blocking the police car and thus made it possible to safely drive the police car to the Police Department to draw up appropriate documentation and then put the detained person in custody, in accordance with the decision of the district court, in custody. The runaway in Krakowskie Przedmieście continued. At its peak, it was attended by between 800 and 1000 people. I regret to say that in an aggressive and vulgar crowd there were Members: Ms Elżbieta Zielińska, Mrs Klaudia Jachira, Mr Krzysztof Śmishek, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk and Mrs Małgorzata Filiks. [[Magdalena.]] [[Voice from the room: Magdalena.]] Excuse me, Magdalena Filiks. I'm sorry about the mistake. Some parliamentarians made it difficult, even preventing officers from doing their job. These behaviours are the subject of careful analysis. This analysis will be transmitted after it has been done by the main command, by the Minister of Interior and Administration to the Marshal of the Sejm, and if there are grounds for doing so, the prosecutor's office, in order to conduct appropriate proceedings. Around 9:40 p.m., a group of about 100 people moved to the premises of the KRP and Wilcza Street in order to wait for the release of the detained. In the course of the activities carried out on 7 August and on the night from 7 August to 8 August, the police arrested 48 people. 43 of them were accused of engaging actively in a fugitive, committing a violent attack on persons or property, acting publicly, for no reason, showing gross disregard for public policy, i.e. for an act of art. 254 §1 of the Criminal Code. After questioning as suspects, all of these persons were released immediately. 2 persons detained were additionally accused of violating the immunity of the intervention police officers, i.e. for an act of art. 222 §1 of the Criminal Code. These people were also questioned as suspects. The prosecution has taken a preventive measure in the form of police supervision against them. In addition to the alleged involvement in the conspiracy, 2 persons were also accused of damage to property in the form of an unmarked police car, i.e. for an act of art. 288 criminal code. The D.A. also applied police custody to them twice a week. After questioning as suspects, these persons were released. One person charged with obstruction of justice against police officers. I would like to stress this: among those who have been detained, among these 48 people, two of them have been identified by our services as people associated with the Antiphy environment, which, as President Trump said, is to be included in the list of terrorist organisations. I would like to say that, after these events, the management of the Ministry clearly assessed the actions of the police. We believe that the police were fully professional and appropriate to the situation. Direct coercion measures have been applied in accordance with the applicable law, without exceeding in any way the rules for their use. I would like to stress that only physical force and grips were used; handcuffs were used for those detained. No other means of direct coercion have been applied. I would also like to assess this situation in some way as a manipulation. In my opinion, the organizers of this event, those who appeared at the beginning at Solc, wanted to lead at all costs to the situation for public opinion to assess this situation, is to stop Michael S., as an action against some environment, to act against a certain ideology, to act against LGBT activists. However, this was not the case, and this must be said firmly. The police executed the order of the district court for an immediate declaration of enforceability. She did it according to order, professionally. And that decision was made in connection with criminal crimes. The actual cause of the arrest was, of course, a criminal incident that occurred more than a month earlier on Wilcza Street. The decision of the court in this case was clear. Your Honor, it doesn't belong to me, but the reason for the court's decision is... [[High Senate, Minister.]] High Senate, of course. Excuse me, Senator. But the decision of the court, High Senate, is decisive here, and the justification of this decision leaves no doubt. I would like to say this: belonging to any minority or to any majority cannot protect against criminal liability for acts committed. Being a member of any group can't justify aggression, can't legitimize a hat, can't give the right to insult others. There can be no specific immunity in the case of the LGBT community. And in my opinion, some people who hid behind rainbow banners were expecting immunity. I would like to stress that we, me and my government in which I am, see equality differently. This is equality against the law, whether you have one or another views, whether you have one or another beliefs. And I think that this equality in Poland will be enforced. I would like to say one more thing, in my view, very important, very important. Anyone who violates the law, who raises his hand to a Polish policeman, de facto raises his hand to the Polish state. Anyone who insults a police officer or a police officer on duty insults the majesty of the Republic of Poland. I hope the High Senate agrees with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u199	Thank you, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister's questions? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck have come forward for the time being. Is there anyone else? Senator, good. I'm the one who's asking you to give me one step at a time... And I ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u200	Minister, I ask absolutely unintentionally and therefore I will use official documents in my question, namely the information from the visit made by representatives of the National Mechanism of Prevention and Torture, which is the agenda of the Ombudsman's Office. In this document, a document from the visits carried out, we can read that representatives of the national mechanism, i.e. the Ombudsman's office... And I immediately inform you that I am asking about the case of 48 arrests on 7 August. In the Visitation Document Because the representatives of the Ombudsman's office made a visit to the detention rooms, we can read that from the observation of the representatives of the Ombudsman's office... We read in this information that among the people detained were people who did not participate actively in the convention in Kraków Przedmieście, among others. persons who came out of the store or returned with purchases, and some of the persons detained had visible injuries on the body, which were documented by the office representatives. Some of the detained indicated that the measures of direct coercion were inadequate and not proportionate, e.g. mounting handcuffs in the rear during transport. Why would I ask you that? ♪ 'Cause it's always an evaluation ♪ Which you concluded when you said that the police's actions in the Minister's opinion were correct, it took time. And here we have a collision, a conflict with this relationship, but the representatives of the public institution, which is the Ombudsman's office. Therefore, my question is whether this assessment has certainly been carried out in a sufficiently deeper way. Because, as I say, we are dealing with a conflict of information that you have provided, with information that the Ombudsman's Office has provided.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say that the chief of police has taken care of the case and has instructed his officers to check in-depth the conditions under which the detained persons were held, including those charged with the charges. And I can already see in this question that you are asking, certain inconsistencies, because according to the law, according to the law on coercive measures, the handcuffs are put on in the back rather than in the front. So making a complaint about the handcuffs being placed in the back is, like, unfounded. I can see that right now. I realize these are the people who participated in the fugitive. We all saw what this fugitive looked like. I imagine she might actually have skin abrasions from a person who walked into a police car and didn't want to come down from there, and the cops were pulling her out of there using physical force. Yes, physical force is a means of direct coercion, which can cause some damage to the body. But from the information I have, it appears that none of these people said None of these people, Mr. Senator. That these injuries occurred e.g. at the police station. Yes, during the incident, when physical strength was used, it may have occurred that there was certain, I don't know, injuries, bodily damage. But as far as I know, anyone who needed a doctor got help from a doctor if there were such situations; anyone who needed a lawyer immediately, when the situation allowed, received help from that lawyer; anyone who needed to notify the person closest to him could notify the person closest to him at the time he called for it. If you have any other knowledge of whether the Ombudsman has any other knowledge... Well, he should use it to cause more control. We will, of course, continue to investigate these matters. I know there are documents at the police headquarters. Allow me, Senator, to give you a more detailed answer to your questions in writing. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will draw information from the exact same documents that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski has already mentioned. I would like to ask you why this was due to the relationship of these people and the senator asked such a question, there were stopped random persons. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask why the people who were detained were sometimes driven from the precinct to the precinct for half the night without the information at which the precinct is located. Another thing. Here, in fact, the information we have is contrary to what the Minister says, that these persons had immediate legal assistance. These people were not informed about the legal basis of the detention, because police officers often referred to the COVID Act. And that's why I wanted to ask. Another thing: it was the intervention of Members and Members that caused this legal assistance to arrive. My next question. How were those people treated at the precincts? I'm asking because we're getting very disturbing information about these people's personal checks, about searches and sometimes vulgar calls from police officers. I would like to ask how the Minister intends to to check and possibly draw consequences for police officers who behaved in this way. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u205	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! If you have any evidence suggesting vulgar policemen's comments, please deliver them. In the materials I've seen, there's been a lot of vulgar comments from members of this fugitive. Unfortunately, one of your messengers also spoke very vulgarly to a police officer. I've seen this footage. If there's any material I don't know about, please deliver it. A policeman has no right to speak vulgarly to a person to whom he takes any action. I don't know anything about being stopped by random people. On the contrary, we have spoken to the Chief of Police today and it seems to me that the police stopped people in a very precise way. You've seen pictures of a police vehicle being demolished. There were more demolishers than those who were charged. Two people have been charged, and I'm sure I've identified them. I have no reason to believe that the police stopped random people. Of course, the person in custody who is being charged has the right to defend himself and has the right to claim that she was there by accident that she didn't do anything. I am convinced that the prosecution or the police investigation will prove the guilt of those who have been detained. Of course, if there is such a situation that they will be able to prove that they were stopped accidentally, they will be able to claim their rights from the police, but I have no reason to believe that this was the case. I don't know about any situations at this point that bring people from the command to the command. Such situations could have occurred for logistical, organisational reasons, due to the availability of processors and the availability of detention rooms. Chief chief's nodding his head. If such situations were the case, they were rather due to a large number of arrests and a small capacity of police detention rooms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u207	Thank you. You're welcome. Senator Bosacki with a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! I'm filing a formal motion. We have a representative of the Ombudsman's Office in the Chamber. Because in a few moments, the senators referred to the report of the RPO Bureau, and the Minister says that he has no such knowledge, I request that we be able to hear it right now... [[Mr. Senator, I...]] ...the representative of the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u209	Mr Senator, in accordance with the procedure that has been prepared, the Deputy Ombudsman, Mr Stanisław Trociuk, whom I warmly welcome, is to speak. His speech was scheduled as well as the unlimited possibility for all senators to ask questions to Mr Stanisław Trociuk. It's written in our script. I'd like you to... If you're holding up your motion... [[Yeah, but I'd still like to justify it.]] One second. Before you justify it, I'll ask you to clarify it. Is it your request that the Minister stop answering questions now, hold off on his answer? 'Cause I'm gonna have to vote on it. Are you aware of that, of course? [[Yes, sir.]] I therefore inform you that there will be a vote in a moment. I just want us to know what we're voting on. Are we voting on a formal motion for the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to stop his speech and take his place as an Ombudsman? Because if so, I am making a counterproposal, which is that we should proceed according to the scenario that was prepared with the approval of the Senate Marshal, which I understand is a certain precedency. Mr Ombudsperson, as foreseen in this scenario, will still be able to appear. If you maintain the motion that we interrupt the Minister's speech now and give the floor to the deputy spokesperson, then of course I have no choice. If this is a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will put it to the vote immediately. [[Voice from the room: No quorum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u210	Can I justify this conclusion? The point is that we should stop at this point because of the blatant differences between the Minister's state of knowledge and the report of another public authority, the Ombudsman's Office. I would like us to hear from the Deputy Ombudsman right now. I address all senators and senators. I justify what happened in this room two months ago when we were dealing with a similar situation. Back then, it was about police action against the strike of entrepreneurs, which some of us thought were brutal and others were justified. We were following exactly the same scenario you were referring to as a marshal. The Minister's performance ended, and unfortunately the Minister left, so that in fact we talked separately with the Minister and separately with the Deputy Ombudsman. I believe that if the Senate is to properly assess this situation, it would be good to listen to the Ombudsman's position at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u211	In that case, I'm managing a five-minute break so that the senators can... Excuse me, Minister, and please take your seat. In five minutes, we will proceed with the vote on Senator Bosacki's formal motion. I declare five minutes... [[But we object. Mr. Senator is making unnecessary fuss...]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I've already made such a counterclaim. I can't, Senator... as long as I'm a marshal, I'll respect the rules. Senator Bosacki has the right to make such an application. You and I have the right to disagree with this proposal, but I have no right not to put this proposal to the vote. It's as simple as I just said. I repeat, I am declaring a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 28 to 20 minutes 33]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Senate Bureau, we came to the conclusion that Senator Bosacki's formal proposal has no formal, regular basis and will therefore not be voted on. I, apologizing to the Minister for this confusion, ask him to take his place again and continue to answer questions. This time the question will be asked by Mrs Jolanta Hibner... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...Senator, I'm so sorry. For many years we have been Members of the European Parliament and of the Polish Parliament, hence this mistake, for which I apologize. Senator Jolanta Hibner will ask you a question... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal, can I have one word?]] You're welcome, Minister. Again, I apologize for... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: No, no, you're welcome. It's a normal procedure, of course, to agree on certain things. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'd like to use the police chief's response. If he could sit here, I don't think there's gonna be any problem... so these answers are gonna be fuller.]] But I would also like to assure you, a little per analogy to our previous one, let's call it a disagreement that the commander is written in our scenario as a person invited to speak and invited to answer the senator's questions as well. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: We can invite you here.]] You're welcome. It's me... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] If this is a place that none of the senators are going to protest about, then, as I understand it... Please don't make me a cerbera of these places, because I'm gonna feel very awkward about this. I'm asking the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u212	Thank you very much. Minister, you mentioned that the car was destroyed a month ago, that there was a trial and there was an immediate feasibility procedure in terms of detention. Why wasn't this person detained in this immediate feasibility mode, just waiting for me to say so, for a while? That's one of my questions. The second point is that the car that was destroyed was indeed destroyed by those persons or persons or persons accompanying it, and was banned from moving with such ads, passwords. Why wasn't he arrested by the police? Why do these things happen? Today there was a car in Saska Kępa, which also aroused a lot of concern among the inhabitants. The residents stopped the car, and they destroyed it by repainting the subtitles they thought were unfortunately, but they're a provocation, not a legal act, so to speak. Is it to be expected, then, that the people who did this will be arrested? Because that's the kind of question people ask me, I mean. citizens of Saska Kępa. Is this truck gonna get stopped or is it gonna stop? Because she was escorted away, with police sirens, with police assistance. So I'd like to know if there's any such charge, very serious, that there's been damage, that a resident or a resident has done damage... I'd like to ask you what the police are doing so that this thing that also causes social unrest... She, as a tool of concern, should be consistently held at the disposal of the police, for explanations, for all... And if there's already a verdict that such an object has no right to move on the street, then it shouldn't have a chance to enter this street at all. And that's why I'd like to ask you how the police work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u214	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Senator, I've just consulted the Chief Commandant on this matter. Well, the judgment is against, the court has ruled that a car with such contents can move, that this is not an obstacle. That is the state of our knowledge. If the senator's knowledge is different, I ask you to deliver your judgment. That's the first line. Second line. You said, Senator, that in Saska Kępa the inhabitants stopped the car and spray-painted it. Well, believe me, this person who was arrested on the night of August 7th to August 8th for destroying the bus... I'm sorry, the police car did this tonight. According to the information I have, the owner of the car has refused to pursue it. But it was the person who was sitting on the police car today who did the painting of that car. They're not residents. Of course, maybe he lives there, maybe he lives there, I don't rule out, I don't know. But it's not like it's a spontaneous action of the locals. He's an activist who's been charged a few days before. And one last thing. Well, I was just explaining to the senator from the beginning. At 4:40 p.m., the Police Capital Command received an order from the court to order arrest in order to be held in custody. After two hours, maybe two hours and 20 minutes, I think... [[Voice from the room: 3 hours.]] ...or three hours, well, this person was in custody. This could not be done on Solc, because police forces against those who were gathered there would be too modest in view of this aggression. The police, having assessed the situation on the spot, decided that they could keep this person underneath the church, under the Copernicus monument. And that's where the arrest took place. As ordered by the court. Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u216	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'd like you to correct the list of participants in an illegal assembly and write me to her because they were there. Not only Members, there was a senator. Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz was there. I was there, and I saw everything. I witnessed the incident. I don't quite agree with the thesis and the version you're making. I also attended an illegal assembly. I found myself there by accident, this is another matter, because walking with my wife and daughter in Kraków Przedmieście, I saw police cars rushing at enormous speed just under the church of the Holy Cross. And I was really wondering if something terrible really happened there. Because these cars were driving at a huge speed, and the Krakow Suburb is full of walkers. So I'd like to ask the Minister and the chief to draw attention to this kind of incident... And there haven't been any protesters yet, and these cars have posed a huge threat. Lucky it didn't happen. I would like to ask whether, in fact, Mr. Minister, Krakowskie Przedmieście is the best place to stop suspects of crime, even if there is a court decision on this matter. You say they've been detained within three hours... But about the fact that it was in a place like this and under conditions like this, I don't quite agree. I would also like to ask the question whether, for example, the famous hanging on gallows of portraits of MEPs... Why was this not a reaction similar to the reaction that occurred during this event that is being discussed today? I would also like to ask whether police officers are actually trained to fight the crowd or to pacify such manifestations. I'm asking you this because my observations showed that these actions were as if controlled and thoughtful. I witnessed how single people, even those sitting on the ground that... I didn't hear them chant. Maybe I was too far away, maybe there are videos that show that there were aggressive passwords directed towards police officers... But I think it's for cops who behaved very aggressively. Cops pulled single victims out of the crowd because that's what I'm gonna call these people. They surrounded them, they put handcuffs on them, they smacked their head with their knees or necks to the ground... and those policemen's behaviors were very aggressive. I witnessed it, and I have a video of it, and if I have to, I can show it. I would also like to point out to the Minister that you did not fully fulfil your role because you focused on the protestors with rainbow flags and did not pay attention to aggressive kibolas. 'Cause I think that's what they're called. Who were also preparing for an attack on their own... opponents. I don't know what to call them, but I don't think the chefs like rainbow flags very much either. And to be honest, I had to react, and I was able to stop or stop the kibola attack on these protestors, the kibola that had the gas thrower prepared. I put myself in a bit of jeopardy despite my wife's protest, but I managed to stop this man. So at this point, I replaced the police, Minister. [[I remind you... excuse me, Mr. Senator, but I remind you that we have a minute to ask you a question.]] Okay. Okay, that's where I'd like to stop. And I'd like you to answer my question as to whether I'm going to be arrested, too, because I attended an illegal assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u217	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! From the beginning. Krakowskie Przedmieście is a weak place to stop And that's why the convention was going there. Of course I do. To make a fuss, to heat up the case, to make it public, to show that you're a martyr in the name of a rainbow flag. That's why they were walking with rainbow flags, i.e. so that you can tell the whole world: see, rainbows beat in Warsaw, only because they are rainbows. Mr. Senator, the arrest was made as a result of a decision by a court of law which resulted in a criminal act being committed. No one was accounted for by an illegal assembly. That's why you, Senator, may feel safe. Thank you very much, sir, if you have prevented some kind of aggression and stopped someone from doing justice in your own name. That's not the kind of thing that's allowed. I'm glad you've been here, sir, that you can give a witness. But believe me, I've seen all the footage I got from the police headquarters, I've also seen the ones on the Internet, and I haven't found any footage on which the police officer I didn't find one, please find me one. It was the police's duty to use physical force against the people who blocked the police car in which the person was arrested. It was their duty. Let me put it this way, I'm sure if this were a different time, if it were even 10 years ago, the means of direct coercion would be different in use, much more vulnerable. I'll tell you, I'm impressed with the patience of the cops against the insults they were throwing at them, the provocations they were. All these provocations can be seen on the Internet, you can see it all. These are ordinary, simple people who serve Poland, who work hard and were the object of a huge attack, a huge heytu. They've been holding on to this situation. Thank you so much for your work, for your commitment. Thank you very much to the Polish police for this. Mr. Senator, I'm sure if you'd learned all the materials, you'd share my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for the professionalism, peace and simply good police work we are discussing here. I have a question of nature maybe more general. Mr. Michał S. has already appeared in several places where they were conducted such, not other illegal actions. Don't you think that a certain sense, I would call it a sense of impunity, some mission, some action, is decisive here? Shouldn't we intervene earlier when religious feelings were violated, e.g. When you put rainbow flags on the monuments? Didn't too much time delay just cause this impunity to outstretch? Unfortunately, this also leads to negative consequences for the person who behaves in this way because, feeling unpunished, he comes under increasingly sharper paragraphs, whether it's a code of offenses or a criminal code.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! Well, I won't agree with the senator that this person remains unpunished, because this person has been arrested by the police for desecrating the place of worship, for violating religious feelings, for suspending... the destruction of monuments and accusing her. Nevertheless, there was no basis for applying a far-reaching, non-freedom preventive measure. In the second case, which is more serious from a criminal point of view, the court has made a different decision. I would like to stress that I do not know the case in which Mr Michał S. would be involved and in which law enforcement authorities would not take appropriate action. In my view, these actions are adequate both in the case of the car on Wilcza Street and the attack on several Pro Life activists as well as in the case of monuments. Of course, I understand the senator's intention. It's a matter of famous broken windows. Well, you can't allow the first broken window because they're about to break 100. Please accept such a declaration: on behalf of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and, I think, the Chief of Police, I can assure the High Senate that these proverbial broken windows will be pursued so as not to lead to a situation in which hooligans or persons of this or other ointment have disgusted and felt that they can commit criminal crimes as they please. I'm sure we'll be looking at these things very closely and taking care of it. Once again, I would like to thank the police for those actions that were not easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any other senators willing. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the information you have provided, which concerns images of feelings by hanging flags in rainbow colors on monuments. Did you know that a well-known Dutch painter, Hans Memling, on the triptych, also showed Jesus Christ against the background of the rainbow? It never occurred to anyone that it offends someone's feelings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u225	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u226	Rainbow is also a sign of the covenant, I realize that. Nevertheless, hanging on the figure of Christ's rainbow flag or hanging on Christ's face a mask with an anarchist sign offends my religious feelings, Senator. As far as I know, one of the parliamentarians has filed a report of a criminal offence in this case and the law enforcement authorities have acted as they have acted. I would like to stress that these regulations which the police apply, which the prosecution applies, are provisions introduced very long ago in the Polish State. This is the 1997 Penal Code, from 1997, these are not invented COVID laws that you can attack, say: oh, this introduced... These are the stable rules of the criminal code, which have been in operation for a long time, and the knowledge about them must have been very broad. And the rainbow on the figure of Christ insults my religious feelings, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u227	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? If not, I inform you that... the Minister, I understand, confirms that he has committed himself to giving a written answer to the question asked by Senator Kwiatkowski? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome the chief of police, Mr Jarosław Szymczyk, present at the meeting. Would the Chief like to speak? You're welcome, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u228	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I do not hide the fact that for the first time I am honored to be in the Senate's plenary room. When I came here and heard this exchange of comments about the experience... Mine is completely zero, so for any inconveniences, understatements or improper behavior in advance, I apologize. But taking advantage of this opportunity that I am here as the head of nearly 100,000 presently serving officers of the Polish Police, 25 thousand employees of this formation, I cannot imagine not to say a few words in connection with what happened primarily in the media space, but also politically, after the events of 7 August. I'm so comfortable wearing this uniform with great pride for 30 years. For the past four and a half years, I've had the privilege of running this formation. And for four and a half years, one of the philosophies that I've been trying to bring in and about at every briefing, at every opportunity... Every time I meet the cops, I'm telling you, in a situation where someone breaks the law, it doesn't matter what flag they carry around, what colors the scarf is wearing around their necks, or what ID card they have. It's in his pocket. It doesn't matter because they're all equal in the law. And this is one of the fundamental principles that I've been trying to pass on to my people for over four years. The other is very important to me, too. I have always said, referring to the perspective of our country's experiences in the times of communism and in the times of the Citizen's Militia, in no way do I want to judge the militia, many I know, many I respect How people were treated at various kinds of free assemblies. Besides, looking also through the prism that I consider this to be one of the greatest and most important values of democracy, I have always told the police that everything has to be done, absolutely everything, so that no matter who presents and demonstrates what values they express... If the assembly is legal, we must do everything we can to enable the participants of this legal assembly to carry out it. And I can give you a whole bunch of examples, including the LGBT environment, which we cared a lot about during the massive attacks, for example during the last election campaign to parliament, when there were several equality parades in the country every week. Let us recall the decisive actions of the Polish police protecting the participants of the convention in Lublin and Bialystok, or the arrest of a very dangerous criminal, who moved with knives to the participants of the convention in Wrocław. None of us who wore police uniforms ever had any doubts. that these people should be kept safe because they have the right to demonstrate and have the right to gather. I've always asked us to withstand pressure and do everything we can so that people can demonstrate safely and calmly. For a long time I've heard from cops that this is a good direction, that it's worth doing. Unfortunately, after August 7th, I hear completely different comments from police officers. Chief, what else do we have to endure? What else do we have to endure? He struggles, he challenges us, he spits on us. We stop those who do this, and we bear the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the case. These people wear uniforms, drive cars fast, drive very fast to save people's lives, often endangering their own. All of you are cordially invited to the Police Headquarters to Puławska Street. There's a memorial board on the second floor, with 122 names of my friends and colleagues, who have completed the entire chain of police vows by giving their lives on duty. I hope there's not one more name in there. Ladies and gentlemen, let us respect these people. Let us respect these people, because they also cared about safety on 7 August. They did their job to protect people who were then walking in Krakowskie Przedmieście and exposed to aggression on an unprecedented level, which we have seen in the very centre of Warsaw. I've got evidence of that. I've got a whole bunch of footage I can give you, and it's gonna go to the D.A.'s office. And I believe that after all these legal proceedings have been completed, none of you will say that there have been accidental arrests. There were no purchases in any deposit, ladies and gentlemen. The famous Italian citizen who was arrested did not have any purchases with him. He had a backpack with a laptop. He heard the charge not only from the article on participation in an illegal fugitive, but also from the alleged violation of the bodily integrity of a police officer. We also have evidence for this, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just asking for one thing: let's rely on the truth. It'll make it easier for all of us. I will also share with you such a personal reflection of 30 years of my service. From different perspectives, I've watched these kind of meetings. I've been to meetings of the Sejm and the Plenary Room in the Sejm. Today is the first time I've seen it directly in the Senate. And I'll tell you, no matter what the configuration was in the Seym or Senate benches, it was always on the one hand an attack on the police, and on the other hand it was a defense. All these people have changed over the years, and the cops are always there, and they're still there. And I assure you that they have enough stress and experience enough danger in their daily service. They don't need to be stressed, they don't need to be burdened, they need to be held responsible for the aggression that has been mentioned in the various messages that have appeared. All I ask of you is one thing, respect for my people. These are fantastic people who serve you and your loved ones every day. And I assure you, you can always count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u229	Thank you very much, Chief. I want to assure you of something. You said beautiful words. During the previous term of office, many of us had the opportunity to show respect for your colleagues, those who served free Poland for many years, risked their lives as policemen of the Republic of Poland and whose current authority took pensions. I always think about these cops when I talk about heroes, these silent heroes, people who don't have pensions just because they used to wear the uniform of the Civic Militia, which you respectfully spoke of today, and I thank you for that. [[Voice from the room: And in what mode does the marshal speak?]] Thank you for that. I'd like to ask the senators and the senators. I guess I said it correctly this time. If there are any questions for your commandant. You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u230	Could you please get back to the microphone, sir? Because I'm gonna ask for an answer. [[Chief of Police Jarosław Szymczyk: Can I come from here?]] Of course I do. There's plenty of room here. Thank you for this information on your part, because she's letting you ask two questions. First of all, I'd like to know if you personally gave orders to police officers in Kraków Przedmieście on 7 August this year. Well, that's the kind of information we get. There are also photos that show that this is the case. This police intervention on 7 August was divided into 2 parts: part, let's call it traditional and part entirely new, in which the police acted in a very brutal way. Well, I'll talk about it in my speech in the discussion. It was connected to the appearance of the person who gave those police officers orders. After that, there was a change in the procedure, the behaviour of the police. So I repeat: were you in Kraków Przedmieście on 7 August, and did you give any orders to intervening policemen? Secondly, the footage that is on social media and is therefore available to everyone shows that the cops who participated in this intervention were younger than the cops who participated in various interventions in previous years and even this year. I'd like to know if those cops who intervened there They intervened differently than experienced policemen who had already had many trainings outside the school and had some experience in public intervention and treatment of the gathered or had no experience. I'd really like to ask you about the average age, but I know you can't answer that question right away. As for the average age of intervening police officers, I would ask you to answer in writing, but I am particularly interested in answering this first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. Will the Chief be... Please, of course, you can answer from there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, No, I wasn't in Krakowskie Przedmieście at all. I haven't given a single order in this case either. [[Thank you very much.]] The police command mode assumes completely different schematics. The operation commander shall be appointed immediately and only he shall take decisions. Mr. Senator, it was actually possible to get the impression that this intervention was made up of two parts. I'll try to explain briefly why. Namely, as Mr Wąsik mentioned at the beginning of his speech, the policemen who arrived for the intervention on Solec Street were ordinary policemen serving as patrolmen. The police report indicated that something disturbing was going on underneath. ...I'm sorry, I missed the name. It was the headquarters of the Homophobia Campaign. When these cops saw what was going on out there, how big this group was, how aggressive it was, they started pulling more reinforcements. These additional forces were really coming from all over Warsaw, and other patrols left the areas in which they served. Well, the truth is that this assembly had not been notified in any way before, which also resulted in the fact that we were not prepared to secure it. This, Mr. Senator, is clearly demonstrated by the fact that, as a general rule, police officers from the prevention units who are trained for this type of security are directed to such operations. Here, simply because of the aggression of people who appeared on Solc and then moved to Krakowskie Przedmieście, it was decided to direct all the forces available at that moment in Warsaw. In addition, the alarm was just announced in the prevention department, and the alarm was also announced for non-tat units of prevention, i.e. for police officers from other district headquarters, and these forces were gradually arriving. That's why they were driving fast, on the signals, because there were police men at risk. The cops asked for backup because they thought the forces they had at their command were too low. That's where the other squad car crews came from, and there were more cops coming. That's why this was the course of this whole security thing. I'd like to get back to the issue of brutality. I really don't know what to mean by brutality. Because if we look at pictures where police officers use stunners, then I want to emphasize that these stunners that were used by police officers in Kraków Przedmieście are the standard that every policeman learns in basic training. So the restraint in the lying position is the safest and for the detained person, and for the arrester, as well as the grip on the neck, not to be confused with the compression on the neck, because it is categorically forbidden, which is the safest form of annihilation of the detained and aggressive person. In situations like this... [[The voice from the room: Well, I don't think it's annihilated...]] I'm sorry, actually, a very unfortunate phrase. I'm sorry. Just overpowering an aggressive person. In such situations, the epidermis can be abrased on the face, on the hands, on the legs. Therefore, we absolutely do not deny that these people had injuries. These injuries could have occurred during these interventions and these arrests. I guess that's it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u233	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u234	Chief, you really spoke beautifully about the police mission. I agree with many words, because I have worked with the police for many years and I value the work of police officers with whom we work every day in the local government. You also said beautifully that it doesn't matter who breaks the law, that everyone is equal to the law. So I will repeat the question I asked the Minister, and the Minister did not answer me: why you protected the participants of the happening hanging on gallows of portraits of people hanging on gallows of portraits of people In Katowice? Back then, the police were rather protecting the perpetrators of an obvious crime for me, and here you behaved quite radically towards people carrying rainbow flags. And one more question, Mr. Commandant: what was the aggression of the manifestors but, attention In front of Krakowskie Przedmieście? Because once the police started pulling people out of the crowd, or that man who... I don't remember his name... margot? Yeah, whatever. Before this group of people reached Krakowskie Przedmieście, what was her aggression? Were these people attacking someone or just shouting out some passwords? Because there's a lot of words here about aggression. And that's the end of it. I don't agree, Chief, that the cops were on their way to save lives. It's been 15 minutes since police cars entered the church of the Holy Cross at enormous speed. And then the cops would walk out of these cars, and they'd set up a formation. So, in the future, please pay attention to the fact that in public places, where there are plenty of walkers, when there is no danger of life, but a little slow down and take care of other people's lives, not at the signal of a huge speed of driving around Kraków Przedmieście not to save lives. Please answer my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u235	Thank you. There you go, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the situation with Katowice, so hanging pictures of MEPs on symbolic gallows, in my view, is scandalous, but I absolutely disagree with the allegation that we have protected and done nothing. All these people have been identified, the entire incident has been recorded, the evidence has been collected, and all the material has been transferred to the prosecution. Indeed, there was no physical intervention against these persons, because there was no aggression on their part, but the activities related to documenting the suspicion of a crime and the identification of the perpetrators who committed this act were fully professionally carried out and their outcome was transmitted to the competent authority of the prosecution. As for those motorized loudspeakers... Mr. Senator, let the police decide when to use privileged signals when to move in the privileged column. However, they know far better than we do, looking from the point of view of the passerby, or even the chief of police... Aggression on the route from Solec Street to Krakowskie Przedmieście Street was mainly manifested by scandalous vulgar shouts, challenges of police officers, courts and many other institutions, spit on police officers. In general, this attitude indicated that this aggression was increasing, the number of people who joined the group... This group, its number was growing all the time, hence the decision of the commanders to increase their strength to ensure order, all the more so that the crowd fell with passwords Well, I'm not quoting here either. That they are heading towards the church, the Basilica of the Holy Cross, for destruction, to destroy the place of worship. These were the grounds for the commander to take action to increase the police force.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u237	Thank you. Senator Rafał The locksmith asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I... [[Yes, there you go, Mr. Senator, we hear you.]] Thank you very much. In the beginning, I would like to correct the information given to the speaker before you by Marshal Kaminski that the retirement of the militia had been taken away. I don't think there's a retired policeman in Poland who wouldn't take a pension. The privileges have been removed. I, like Senator Tyszkiewicz, was in Krakowskie Przedmieście and have separate impressions. I haven't seen Senator Tyszkiewicz, but I believe he was there, too. Police control over a very aggressive assembly of demonstrators and separating a crowd of calm walkers from these aggressive demonstrators has highlighted as an extraordinary skill and very competently planned process of police action. For this, the police thank you very much, because walkers, also with children, could feel safe, this group was very separate. I could say, but I'm not going to quote, like the Minister, those words, those words that were falling. They in this intensity of vulgarism were close to the movement of the Eight Stars. The question I'd like to ask the chief is this. There was such a statement in public that there are street combat trainings addressed to some groups, perhaps to those groups that they have demonstrated. Did the police notice any new techniques, some new way of responding to law enforcement services that could cause social unrest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u239	Thank you. There you go, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! We, of course, monitor various types of groups or organisations that may pose a threat to security and public order. However, our knowledge shows that this is classified information. And I would leave them, for now, at the level of knowledge of the operational level of the Polish Police. I'm sorry, but I wouldn't want to share that knowledge and that insight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u241	Thank you. Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Chief, I'm sorry you're so backwards, but it's your decision to answer from the gallery. I thank you for the right and beautiful words about the fact that the police want to remain impartial, but during the second debate in the Senate about her actions we had the first, remind you, 2 months ago, during police intervention during demonstrations or business strikes The growing doubts that this is the case. However, I think we agree, first of all, that the absolute majority of police officers are professional, honest and well-served people and their homelands, and secondly that the times in which it was justified, for example. the blocking of militia cars, then, passed in 1989. And I hope they never come back. So we absolutely agree on a few things. But I also hope that both you and the Minister will listen to the preliminary conclusions of the Ombudsman's Office, which has been the subject of my, as it turns out, informal proposal. Because there are these thesis or facts that partially contradict what you are talking about. And I have two questions about that. One thing is about what happens after arrests. So the procedures for admission to police detention sites, searches, orders for the detained to strip naked... Often, the detained consider this to be excessive malice. I'd like to ask you to explain and clarify what this procedure should be like. And the second is about what you've been talking about a little bit, which is that the convoyed officers were making an intervention at the time on Friday the eighth... the seventh, I'm sorry. Yes, August 7th. A lot of them, as you can see in the pictures, didn't have posters. That also raises questions. This isn't the first time in months. I also have a question: when do police officers have to use badges, and when do they not have to? Especially cops who, as you said, were being cheated at the time, but they're from other tasks, I understand. Cops always have badge tags on regular patrols. So I would very much like to ask you to answer these two questions, which are procedures after you stop and for necessity or not to have posters.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u243	Thank you very much. There you go, Chief... I'd ask your senators to ask a brief question. It's very late. And that's my request. Well, technically, it's 1 minute. I'm not gonna be that thorough, but I'd like to ask you that this is a brief question and that's a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[Voice from the room: One more answer.]] Oh, the answer. Excuse me, Senator. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Senator Czerwiński isn't answering, he's the Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u244	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, when it comes to... I thank you very much for the thought that we would like the times of blocking police cars that carry out their work to pass away. Well, unfortunately, this Friday, August 7th, showed that not necessarily. Even if that were not enough, the said police car was devastated in a particularly bold and insolent way. I'd like to see a time pass when police officers are hindered from doing any kind of work, no matter who's interfering. And it wouldn't matter much to me either, what kind of scarf this person has, what kind of flag or what kind of ID. But I will answer the senator's questions briefly and in substance as regards the report of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism. I'd really like to get to know him. I look forward to the Ombudsman's Office wishing to send this document to me so that I can read it. Because so far, I'm only getting to know him fragmentedly, through the media. Well, I think it's unprofessional. This makes it even more difficult for me to have any reaction to this document. But at least from the material I have, it appears that this document was built on the statements of the detained. I don't want to question these statements in any way, but still the procedural rules. Here, in this case, the Code of Criminal Procedure taught me to always listen to all parties and assess all possible evidence. And what we're talking about here is going to be a one-sided relationship and, I'm afraid, after all. Without undermining these claims It's not objective. As for the procedure for searching the detained person, Mr. Senator, it is clear and clear from the Police Act, specifically from the article. 15d. He's pretty extensive. But let me put it this way, from a pragmatic point of view... We've had and we've had a lot of suicide attempts in detention rooms, which is why it's so important every time we search a person very carefully, to see if they have any object that could be used for such a suicide attempt. And there's no way... If an officer serving in detention rooms would not search a person and reveal an object to which he could later harm himself, the vending machine would be subject to criminal liability under Article. 231 criminal code. This is an absolutely mandatory action that is carried out in relation to each person detained. As far as name tags are concerned, they are, of course, mandatory for all police officers, but this obligation is excluded when the service is carried out in a representation company, in an honorary company or in a tight unit. Of course, I'm guessing it's about the last time you turn it off. The reason for the authors of this recipe, a recipe that's been in place for a good couple of years, if I recall correctly... [[Voice from the Chamber: Since 2009]] Since 2009, I think so. In my opinion, it was a very good decision. I believe that police officers in tight sub-sections should not wear IDs for one simple reason: they then act as a sub-unit, not as individual police officers, and act at the command of a superior officer. It has never happened in a situation of filing a report of a crime, that e.g. One of the police officers committed a felony in the course of the unit's operation so that, as the police, we wouldn't be able to identify a cop like that. The commanders know their officers very well. We record the vast majority of our actions. So that's not the biggest problem. On the other hand, as life has shown, even in recent months, very often policemen despite the fact that they acted at the command of their commander The commander is always known, with this there is no problem, they were individually harassed in the media by placing their names, their images. And I really wouldn't wish for any of you and your biggest enemy what the cops were going through because of what was going on on the Internet at their address. So if it's ever up to me, I'm still going to opt for this solution to work and not to identify individual police officers in a tight sub-section. That's what the commanders are for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u245	I have a question for the chief. I understand that the Chief guarantees that citizens are treated equally, the same way. I have some doubts, I have seen what was happening in Bialystok, and I admit that I have not seen such dynamic police activities. The police were, they were protecting, but there were acts of extreme aggression. Can you remind me how many people were detained in Bialystok at the time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u246	I would very much like to give this information to the Marshal in writing because I would like to be precise, and at the moment I am unable to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u247	I'll have that in writing, please. [[Chief of Police Jarosław Szymczyk: Of course.]] Second question. Doesn't the police use arrests that are very ill? That's what the chief was talking about. Not just by stopping, because it doesn't have to be very aggressive, but by the procedures that are? Doesn't the police use detention as a means of repression? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very happy to answer your Marshal's question, I really have great respect in me for your Marshal. I'll allow myself... I've even taken this with me, and I can leave it with the record form of the arrest of the person, as well as the instructions on the authority held in criminal proceedings. Mr. Marshal, depriving someone of liberty is the kind of authority a police officer must exercise absolutely according to the rules of law. Therefore, even in this detention protocol, there are legal grounds which must be fulfilled in order for the person to be detained at all. In addition, each person detained is informed of his/her rights, he/she receives such instruction, where these rights are written, and signs this instruction, one copy takes with him and the other one goes to the file of the proceedings. This instruction indicates that the person detained has the right to information about the reason for detention and to be heard; the right to make or refuse to make a statement in his case; the right to contact the lawyer or counsel immediately and to have a direct conversation with him; the right to use free assistance from the translator if the person detained does not know enough Polish language; the right to receive a copy of the detention protocol; the right to notify the person closest to him or her, as well as the employer, school, university and commander, etc.; right to contact the consular office if detained is not a Polish citizen; right to bring a complaint to the court for detention within 7 days of detention In a complaint, an examination of the validity, legality and regularity of detention may be requested. And so on, I don't really want to quote it anymore, but... [[Mr. Chief, don't quote that any more, it's very long.]] It shows that there's no way a cop can keep anyone he wants, whenever he wants and doesn't take any responsibility for it. And according to the Police Act, a policeman can assume three kinds of responsibility. This is financial responsibility, insignificant in this case, disciplinary and criminal. The officer of this criminal responsibility is fully aware of this, Mr. Marshal. Well, after all, I can't imagine a cop keeping a person without a legal basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u249	I have one more short question, Mr. Chief. How many people have been arrested during this incident and how many have been charged?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u250	Mr. Marshal, 48 people have been detained. All 48 people were charged with criminal charges. These were the charges from the article. 254, which is an article on participation in an illegal fugitive, not an illegal assembly, because this must also be distinguished, just an illegal fugitive. Its participants know that they are involved in such a runaway, and it is aimed at an attack on health, life or property. Dear Marshal, of these 48 people, 8 filed a complaint for detention and 16 demanded contact with a lawyer. All of these people had access to a lawyer. 19 detained persons have been asked to notify the nearest person and these nearest persons have been notified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u251	Thank you, Chief. Now Senator Jerzy Czerwinski asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Chief! We've all seen on TV what those events looked like. A growing aggression and an increasing sense of impunity on the part of those who attacked police officers. A very interesting topic has been raised here by Senator Rafał Silesian, namely, one or this aggression, the sense of impunity did not come from the fact that these people are pre-trained. I still have that question. Is this really the case, and is public money used in this training? Not directly, of course, because I don't think anyone would dare to do that, but indirectly, by financing the right associations, foundations, etc. If this information is classified, as you suggested in your previous reply, I would ask you to make this information available to me in secret. We have the opportunity to analyze such information in a special firm. Of course, do it not now, but later.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u253	There you go, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u254	Of course in this mode we will respond to this request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u255	Thank you. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for you, Chief Szymczyk. I would like to ask you if, in your opinion, the actions of the police officers during the events in Kraków Przedmieście were adequate and consistent with what is on the order issued in 2003 by the Chief of Police. It is a document which is a set of rules of professional ethics of a police officer. §4 states that in all its activities a police officer has an obligation to respect human dignity and respect and protect human rights, in particular in respect of the right of every human being to live and to prohibit the initiation, application or tolerance of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u257	Thank you. There you go, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I don't have any signal that the rules you mentioned were being violated. If the senator has such information, then... I will repeat once again that a police officer is under disciplinary responsibility and criminal responsibility. If such situations have occurred, I would ask you very much to notify the prosecution of the possibility of a criminal offence by a police officer or to notify me of the possibility of a disciplinary delinquency. In both cases, if there are grounds for doing so, appropriate procedures should be carried out. Only then will I be able to answer your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u259	Thank you. Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Chief! I have a question raised by your statement that every time officers take action in groups with no badges, no IDs, you are able to identify them. I have a question about the situation from May, when the police officers, beyond any doubt, as you can see in many films, forced our friend Jack Burego, a Senator from Lublin, into the police car. Have these police officers been identified? Did you run this case after Senator Bury's complaints? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Yes, of course I know which police officers were involved in the sequence of events you're talking about right now. Well, I don't know if Mr. Senator or anyone else has filed a notice to the D.A. that a police officer has exceeded his authority. I don't have that kind of knowledge. I certainly haven't received any request for disciplinary action against this police officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u262	Thank you, Chief. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u263	Mr. Chief, when you answered the question about the contact of those detained with your attorneys, you wanted to say that they all had such contact. I am interested in the time it took, because from many accounts, and from both the detained themselves, who spoke about it after the release, as well as their representatives, or finally the messengers and Members who supported those detained, I would say, in information... Well, they were trying to find out in vain where they were staying. Sometimes it took a few hours. Let me remind you that the event took place around 4:00 p.m. and not until the night, at 3:00 p.m., i.e. After 11 hours, one of our fellow messengers received a full list of the detained. Thus, in many cases, the agent could only contact the detained person after many hours. I'd like you to describe this situation to me in your words. Is it true that many of the 48 detained were only able to contact their proxy after a few hours?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u264	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Firstly, I would like us to sort things out a little bit about the legal structure of the rights of the detained person. Well, with all due respect to your parliamentarians, I must say that it is not so that the Member or the Senator may demand information from a police officer about who has been detained. No, the right of the detained person is to notify the designated person. And we did that duty at the time. As I said just now, it appears from the instruction that the person in custody may request notification of the person he or she has designated. The Member may ask whether such a person has been detained, but I have no authority to give such information contrary to the will of the person retained. That's where I'd like to start. Secondly, it is also extremely important that we are talking about the right of the person detained to contact a lawyer or counsel rather than a duty. If such a request is written, I have just read that 16 people have written such a request. It is then the duty of police officers to ensure this contact immediately. It is not specified by the minute or by the hour, it must be done immediately. In the legal interpretation it is said: without undue delay. Yes, at the moment, we are also investigating in detail how long it has been since the arrest protocol was drawn up. From this point on, we are counting the waiting time of the person who brings the request to contact the lawyer to the protocol. Until the lawyer arrived. And for each of these demands, we'll be checking, Senator, how long it's been. I, too, am deeply interested in what was the waiting time of those who claimed this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u266	Mr. Senator Klich Again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u267	I asked more about the implementation of this right, not the mandate of my fellow Members, because, in fact, the law and the formulation of this contact is that the person detained should have legal support. The notion of urgency can, of course, be interpreted as widely as Mrs Szydło interpreted the concept of the immediate publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which lasted probably several months, but a good custom, the action is to interpret the word "immediately" as a very quick, immediate action as soon as possible. And that's what's happened so far. But now, as the detained themselves say, it has often happened that the police refused to provide information on the whereabouts of the detained, their loved ones, indicated to their loved ones. It has also happened that looking for people detained, from outside They were in many different precincts and were transported from the precinct to the precinct, as the detained themselves claim, who were transported... They couldn't contact the attorney because they didn't have his number, and the attorney who tried to contact them didn't receive any information about where the client was currently staying. And that was the novelty of this incident on August 7, that the contact between the detained and the proxy as a result of various actions was very difficult. I use the diplomatic formulation of very difficult, but in many cases it was prevented for several hours. And if you'll excuse me, it's because it's the first time, well, since I've been looking at these things.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u268	There you go, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u269	Could I please go directly to the senator... Well, I don't know, I'll be honest with you, we haven't done the kind of research that's the average waiting time for an attorney. It's hard for me to say if it's a practice that goes beyond the framework... I want to emphasize one thing, Senator, because I want it to sound very clear. In the case of persons who have requested contact with a lawyer, none of these persons has started any legal proceedings without the participation of a lawyer. So this most important part of the proceedings with the person in custody associated with the presence of the lawyer has always been with his presence. There wasn't a single situation that we'd make an accusation to someone who wanted an attorney present, and that lawyer wouldn't be there. And in my opinion, This is, of course, my subjective assessment. This is a key issue: not to perform any legal action with a person detained without the presence of a lawyer, if that person requests the presence of that lawyer. But I want to assure the senator that this is one of several procedural elements, which I see on the basis of these preliminary assessments relating mainly to the handling of persons detained, I stress: procedural And over which, I believe, we need to lean forward and thoroughly verify, assess and perhaps take some future verification action. For me, it's an important thing to check it out, and certainly after these actions have been completed, if that's what the senator wishes, we can also give you the kind of information that has been the time since this request was made until the lawyer's appearance, and why it was this time, not another time. [[You're welcome.]] I'm just gonna let you fill me in on that transfer from unit to unit. This is a problem that always arises when a larger group of people are stopped. First of all, you go to the nearest police unit to check, for example, the health status of the detained person, whether or not you need immediate assistance. But there's also coordination in this unit. We don't have enough rooms for people in custody so we can put 48 people in. So that there is coordination and verification of where there are rooms available in the nearest units. We transport the detained to those units where there are free rooms and where there is a possibility of procedural work related to the performance of activities with the detained person, just so that those detained do not keep them in the corridors for hours, only so that they get to places that are prepared for them for the time of detention as soon as possible. And it's really done in the care of people who are detained, not for some purpose that's bothering them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u270	Thank you. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u271	I have 2 very short questions and I would ask you for specific answers, yes or no. Chief, there's been information in the media, maybe speculation, maybe speculation, maybe insinuations that the territorial defence forces were involved. Please answer yes or no, we cut speculation and the matter will be clear. Second question, too very short. You said that 48 people were arrested for any specific crimes or participation in an illegal meeting... [[Voice from the room: Runaway.]] Runaway. Yes? Were they arrested for any other crimes, or will these 48 people be specifically charged with involvement in an illegal fugitive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u272	Thank you. Chief, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, I would like to answer that first question instead of "yes" or "no," I would like to say that this is complete nonsense. Oh, no, absolutely not. In police uniforms there are only officers of the Polish Police and there is no possibility that there is a different situation. I assure you, if this were to happen, I would either resign immediately the next day or the same day. No, to me, that rumor about WOT soldiers in police uniform is complete nonsense. Come on, please. As far as the charges are concerned, the Minister spoke about this in his speech, and I also said that these charges... It needs to be clearly distinguished. What else is participation in an illegal assembly, and this is a misdemeanor, and for misdemeanor we do not stop people, and what else is participation in an illegal fugitive whose participants are seeking a direct attack on life, health or property, and this is a crime. The allegations of this crime have been made to all 48 people. In addition, allegations of a violation of the bodily integrity of a police officer were presented to 3 people and two of them were destroyed by police property, a police car. I think it's clear and clear now. Aha, one person has been charged with obstruction by a police officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u274	Senator Brejza, remotely. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u275	Hello, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Hello, can you hear me? [[Of course. But now we're asking questions to the chief.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Chief, I have a question about the lack of I.D.s on uniforms. Who decided that there wasn't any identification data on the officers? For what reason? And I have a question about the number of vacancies in the capital garrison, Warsaw. Is it true that about 1,000 police officers are currently missing in Warsaw and the surrounding municipalities? And in your assessment of the kind of behaviour of officers we have seen in recent days in the streets of Warsaw, will they improve the image of the police and encourage young people to serve in the police or not? These are the two questions. I'd be very grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u276	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Chief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Let me repeat: the fact that there were no I.D.s is based on the Home Minister's regulation... yes, Home Minister It is the year 2009 that abolishes the obligation to use name tags by officers present in tight sub-sections. As far as the number of vacancies in the capital police is concerned, it is indeed the percentage and quantitatively highest, if you compare data from all garrisons in Poland It's about 1,000 officers, and I even think it's more than 1,000 at the moment. And that's the big problem. But we also try to support the capital garrison all the time, even though it is still serving nearly half a thousand policemen undergoing professional adaptation, after basic training, and the capital garrison is supported if necessary by police forces from other parts of the country. Of course, my dream is to have an equal position, but unfortunately the situation is what it looks like, given the number of people who are willing to serve. I believe, however, that these solutions introduced by the new law The discussion in the Senate today will make the service even more attractive. Besides, the programme of modernization of the Polish Police, carried out for 4 years, really made it very attractive. I am aware that it is still far from ideal, but after these four years a Polish police officer earns on average I stress: average, gross, with an annual award 1 thousand 700 PLN more, so this is a step forward. I don't think I'm gonna tell you a secret, Minister, saying that we're about to start work on this modernisation program. 'Cause he unfortunately ends this year. So we do everything. Really, Mr. Senator, because we really care about this. To reduce this level of vacancies. Well, unfortunately, the pandemic situation also complicates this situation, because we had to close the schools where police courses are taking place, in order to avoid the possibility that there might be collective infections. Only now do we play these courses to complete them in strict sanitary rigors, so that the police can return to their units and serve. You asked me about image issues. I really think that... I'm proud of my people for how they worked in Krakow Suburbia. And even though I know that today they have a lot of regret for me, that I keep telling them to stay calm, keep pressure, as I often say. Despite this enormous aggression that we have observed, despite these insults, despite these vulgarisms directed at them, gestures widely considered abusive, despite spitting at them, challenging them and their nearest families. I think they've kept their peace. They've really maintained great peace and great professionalism, Mr. Senator, and yes, I'm proud of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u278	Thank you, Chief. I don't see any more requests for questions... [[I'm still...]] Oh, Mr. Senator Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u279	Chief, one more thing is very intriguing to me, and this is again a matter of the legal aspect of detention. Well, we hear it very often. And this is the information that gets to us primarily through social media, from the people who participated in these events, and not just from those who were detained. That persons detained for a long time were not informed of the legal basis of the detention. Yes, they were not informed of the legal basis of the detention They also arrive at information that there were no reasons for detention Neither the paragraph nor the reason why the person is detained. If this had happened once or twice in the case of these 48 arrests, we might have thought that someone was just wrong, someone was unprepared, someone didn't know, etc. But it's happened a lot. And there are various interpretations of this fact. It's like they were looking for a paragraph against the people who were detained during that incident. I'd like you to explain it to me in your own words, just like the last question. I also really want this to be checked and explained by your commandant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u280	Thank you very much. [[That was a question.]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much, senator. Now I'm waiting for your chief's response.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, I think it'll be very easy to check. To answer your Marshal's question, I was talking about instruction. In this instruction all these things are clearly defined. Let me repeat: it is made in duplicate. One copy gets a given person, the other gets in the file. It is very easy to check whether there are copies of the instruction signed by the detained persons, in which specific rights are clearly defined, the right to information about the reason for the detention and to be heard. That is not enough, the record of the arrest of the person is part of the legal and factual basis, Mr. Senator. A copy of the detention protocol shall be received and signed by each of these persons.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u282	I'm not asking, sir, if 'Cause it finally got there. Only when. I said, when? Because again it is as with my previous question that in many cases it was not done immediately, only after some time. Therefore, there are various interpretations that I have spoken of.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u283	Mr. Senator, the detention operation is materialized by the detention protocol. It's also very... That is not enough, there is an hour of detention and a time of preparation of the protocol in the detention protocol. It's very easy to compare and compare. [[I'm asking you to check this out.]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u284	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Senator Bury would like to ask you another question? [[Voice from the room: Yes, remotely.]] Sorry, Senator Jacek Bury. [[Am I being heard?]] Yes, the senator is heard. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's up to me, Minister. [[Voice from the room: He's still reporting...]] Who else volunteered? [[Senator Brejza.]] There you go. Mr. Senator Bury, and then Mr. Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u285	Chief, I have a question. In case of action... These shares are usually recorded, they're documented in some way. After such an action, when a report is made to the prosecutor's office about the possibility of the participants committing the crime, do you hand over the materials to the prosecutor's office? Are there any copies of this material that stay in the police force or aren't they staying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u286	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Is there a control file?]] Mr. Senator, of course we're gonna keep these tapes here, and we're gonna keep copies. They are needed, for example, to carry out control activities, which are carried out both by the Police Command Control Department and by the Police Headquarters Control Office. Besides, we need to secure this material in case any requests for disciplinary proceedings are received so that it can be used in these proceedings. Besides, it's a material we made and... [[Chief, closer to the microphone or a little louder.]] I'm sorry, of course. [[I understand you're tired, but you can't hear very well.]] I'll say it again. Of course, copies remain with us, for example, in the event of monitoring or possible investigative actions in disciplinary proceedings, if such requests were received.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u288	Senator Brejza is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u289	Mr. Chief, I'm going to refer to the action under Three where a woman for refusing to give her data was thrown into a police car along with her bike. I have received a response from you to the senator's intervention, which shows that, despite the fact that a woman has been detained, no detention protocol has been drawn up. Hence the question to you, in a situation of such brutal intervention Putting that lady's bike in the police car and actually stopping However, the police should draw up such a detention protocol. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, I draw your attention. Please take it easy... we'll be done in a minute.]] And are you sure that in all cases such detention protocols have been drawn up? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u290	Thank you very much. There you go, Chief. [[Voice from the room: This does not apply...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[But there's a question he can answer or not answer. That's the way things are around here.]] Respecting the time and fatigue of all of us, very briefly... Mr. Senator, the situation you're talking about... This lady hasn't been remanded. We've taken this lady to the police unit in connection with the refusal to provide police officers with personal data as a suspect in a criminal offence. You weren't brutally thrown, as you call it, but you were politely brought into a police car. And since she was suspected of committing a criminal offence, but refused to give her personal data, it was the police's duty, in order to establish these data, to transport you to the police unit and to carry out appropriate checks. However, when you arrived at the Police Unit, you provided your personal details and, therefore, after checking them, you were released without entering the Police Unit. Not for a second... I mean, I didn't get any information that you'd filed any complaints about the treatment or the alleged police brutality you pointed out. I absolutely disagree, Mr. Senator, with the assessment you make in your speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u292	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Chief, as I understand it, nothing happened on the police side in your opinion. I actually only have one simple question. Because in pictures that are widely available on the Internet... These photos clearly show that the cops not only didn't have cameras on their uniforms... Cameras that were mentioned so much some time ago. And it was boasted that now any police intervention would be additionally filmed. After what happened in Wroclaw some time ago. But they didn't have IDs either. How do you explain that? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u294	Thank you very much. And I'm asking for an answer. Briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u295	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to be excused from answering the second part of the question, because I've already answered it twice. I think it's in the transcripts. So the senator will be able to get acquainted. As for the first part of the question, Mr. Senator, I am not saying that nothing happened. A lot of bad things happened in Kraków Suburbia. Only it was not police officers who were the authors of this evil, but those who showed extreme aggression directed at officers of the Polish Police. You're asking why everyone didn't have cameras. Well, they didn't because we only bought about 3,000 cameras, as I recall. Only thanks to the fact that we have had a programme of modernization of the Polish Police for 4 years. Thanks to this we have, for the first time in history, bought new helicopters for the Polish Police and a whole lot of new equipment, including cameras. If this modernisation program had started 25 years ago, I think we'd have a good chance of having each of the police officers have their own camera today. But we need a little more time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u296	Thank you, Chief. Senator Jacek Bury will ask you a question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u297	Chief, I'd like to refer to my previous question, because you said that the materials remain operational... This is where I'm going back to my case. I asked the police to release the materials from my arrest and received an official response from the police that they did not have any material because they were handed over to the prosecution. There's a lot of inconsistencies here. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u298	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u299	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I propose that you address me in writing with these doubts. I'll try to dispel any doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u300	Thank you, Chief. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u301	I listen very carefully to what the Chief says, especially the answers to the questions I ask. I am particularly interested in this answer, in which you said that these 48 people had to be placed after being detained in various commands, in various detentions. But why 13? 48 people had to be divorced after 13 different commands and kept in 13 places? Couldn't they have been collected in 1, 2 or 3 places, maybe 5 or 10? Well, that's an explanation that doesn't hold up, which is completely illogical, because that means that... If it doesn't end only in Warsaw, but it takes a stop. to the New Mazowiecki Court, this raises suspicions, which at the moment are plenty on social media, that there was some reason that among others. through such a significant centering of the detained and by driving them from the precinct to the precinct, it was extended, so to speak, the time when the preparation of the minutes began. Because contrary to what you said, Mr. Commandant, it was also that it was not until the morning that the detention protocols were drawn up, that the detention protocols were closed. In the morning. And it's information to be checked by you, Chief. So my question is, how did it happen that 48 people had to be taken to 13 different police stations, places of detention? And why was there a time that was spent on this delivery operation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u302	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Chief, just briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Firstly, to illustrate the situation and to brighten the perspective, I might say that there is a fundamental principle in the criminal process, such that it never settles in one cell of people for the same cause. This results in the fact that we needed 48 detention rooms to deploy them. In addition, you must be aware that the rooms for the detained are being held because of the fact that the Polish Police are conducting about 700,000 preparatory proceedings per year. In general, they do not stand empty and wait for the arrival of demonstrators who have broken the law. It is simply those places, depending on which unit is performing the activities on a given day, is in a given unit more or less. That's one thing, Mr. Senator. The second is what I was talking about. For 48 people detained to process, 48 processors are needed. And they also have jobs in different dimensions, and in such night hours, on Friday night, policemen are also people on different shifts. It was, of course, possible to keep all 48 people on the Wolf to carry out the process. In addition, there is also a question of medical examination, medical intelligence, description of injuries, etc., etc., and these are really time-consuming procedures. I do not rule out that in some cases detention may have occurred in the morning, but this is due to the number of those detained and the need to work intensively with those forces which had the managers of individual units and the commander of the operation. Senator, believe me, I will do everything I can to explain from A to Z these time issues you mention. And if there's even a suspicion anywhere that someone was doing this on purpose... Although I'll tell you this from my experience, because I've worked a lot in this area, that the cops who started this security at 4:00 p.m. and would be leaving at 3:00 or 4:00 in the morning, it wouldn't be in their head, I assure you, to do anybody any malice by dragging, prolonging that time. Believe me, such a healthy, lifelike pragmatism leads to the desire to complete these activities as soon as possible, to return home and rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u304	Dear Senators... Mr. Senator, you keep mumbling and commenting. This isn't the place for a commentator. This is the place for a senator. Do you want to ask questions? [[Voice from the room: Feel the role...]] I draw your attention, not by name, but in general. Dear Senators, I have no conscience to keep Mr Trociek here until 1 a.m. That's why... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly, Mr. Senator. We'll hold the Minister and the Chief until 1:00 a.m. Because we would also like the Minister to have the opportunity to hear what Mr Trociuk has to say. So, well, there's an appeal. Some questions are repeated three times. I'm not interfering, but please be brief. To give Mr Trociuk the opportunity to speak at some real time. There you go, who else? Senator Bosacki, you're welcome. Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u305	I'm gonna let myself speak again. Because indeed, the explanations of the chief and his superior, Minister Wąsik, are interesting in many elements. And I'm gonna go back to one. The chief didn't remember... I mean, it's mostly about whether the police are currently applying equal rules to different groups. That's the point of what we're talking about here. The chief and the minister say absolutely so. Well, they're legitimate... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Equal rules or equal rules apply... [[Voice from the room: Well, equals yes.]] Absolutely. You think it's equal. Many of us are justified in my view Doubtful. And I want to address one of those doubts. You do not remember how many people you detained in Bialystok in July 2019 during demonstrations or counter-demonstrations or attempts to prevent legal demonstrations in Bialystok. Well, I checked it out. You said that... just like you're holding 48 people now, you said you were holding 25 people. Here you claimed that the basis for arrests at first was mainly that this group was aggressive, screaming insulting slogans towards police officers, which I absolutely condemn, absolutely condemn. But I remind you that back then in Bialystok we had a few hours of battle where the aggressors used stones, eggs, branches and bottles and then you used tear gas and other means of direct coercion. And then you stopped 25 people. How do you explain this imbalance? And a second, just as short question. You've answered twice. regarding the case of Senator Bure thrown into a police vehicle in violation of the Senator's personal immunity, that you didn't get a complaint that you were asking for it. Did you investigate this case yourself? And do you think everything was okay? If you say so yourself, and your supervisor also says that right now, for example. You're investigating the case of one of the messengers who allegedly spoke badly to the police... Well, that case happened three months ago. Did you investigate this case of Senator Bury's being thrown into a police car? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u306	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... because the senator also mentioned me in this question.]] The Minister wants an answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u307	Yes. I would like to say, Mr. Marshal, that we have been invited here on a specific matter. We prepared questions about detentions on 7 and 8 August and gave all the answers. We will not answer now, Mr. Marshal, with no material, any questions about the 2019 cases, nor will we say how many people were detained during the action of the Fork when 700 people were arrested. Yeah, I remember that. More than 700 people were detained. I don't remember just the tip. Mr. Senator, you were in the government at the time. Did you ask such questions? I'm talking to Senator Klich right now. [[Minister, you don't ask questions to senators.]] More than 700 people were gathered on membranes in Warsaw. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm not a senator, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u308	Minister, the senators are asking questions, not you. That's one thing. Please respond in this mode that applies here. Well, I can see that I have to comment on what you're saying. Well, you have quite a selective memory. You're still so old that you should remember what was recently, not just what was a few or a dozen years ago. Are there any more questions? [[But I didn't get the answer to the question...]] You're welcome, Mr. Commandant. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: But...]] Chief... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal, this question did not concern the subject of today's debate. This debate is about something else, Mr. Marshal.]] Minister, you're a guest here... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Yes, sir.]] ...so act like a guest. [[But why...]] I'm driving... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: You are the host here, Mr. Marshal.]] Yeah, I'm just trying to do the courtesy thing. Chief, do you want to answer that question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! [[Minister, don't be nervous.]] I've already answered the Marshal's question. I said I wanted to be professional and give a precise answer. I'm gonna check it out thoroughly, and I'm gonna answer it in writing. Mr. Senator, you've fired up some information from the Internet and it's about 25 people. Well, I'd ask you to read it to the end, though, because there were over 100 people in custody. Yes, 25 were detained in the act, but as a result of further action, Mr. Senator, more than 100 people were accounted for. Be precise, just like I want to be precise. Let us rely on facts, not once again on media reports, hypotheses, or what it seemed to be. Let's be professional, honest and objective. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u310	In that case... [[I've been called, and I'd like to...]] No, Mr. Senator... [[I've been accused of lack of professionalism, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna...]] Mr. Senator, I'd like to say that the Chief will respond in writing not only to me, but also to you. That's how I write it down, okay? Are there any more questions? There isn't. I would therefore like to ask Mr Trociuk to speak. Well, I was hoping the Minister would listen again. That's why I tried to shorten it. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Goodbye, good night. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u311	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try very synthetically to present the Ombudsman's information. I would like to say that, in connection with these events on 7 August this year, the Ombudsman's staff went to the detention rooms the next day, where they had individual interviews with 33 of the 48 detained. The Ombudsman's report is not yet available. These are the information that has been collected from the detained and which is being analysed at the moment. In addition, the Ombudsman asked the chief police officer to explain and answer a number of specific questions. First of all, I would like to point out that the assessment of the behaviour of the participants of this fugitive on 7 August requires individualisation, because it is likely that there was a different role for these people. From this point of view, it is essential that these persons file a complaint for detention. There is still a 7-day deadline open for these people to benefit from filing a complaint for detention and assessing whether this detention was legal, legitimate, deliberate. I would like to point out that as far as non-trial detentions are concerned, which are not carried out at the request of the judicial authorities of criminal proceedings, the grounds for such detention are strictly governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Conduct on Offences, and the Police Act itself. In the event of a complaint, this will be the subject of an assessment by the court. This is not the subject of the Ombudsman's assessment at the moment. However, during these talks, of course, there was the question that... some people in the talks with the Ombudsman's staff clearly indicated that they were involved in these events, but there were also people who had already been mentioned here and who indicated that they had absolutely not been active in the conspiracy. They were just pointing out that they were random people who were detained as a result of police intervention. This can, of course, be verified in a procedural manner, in a situation where these persons file a complaint before the court for the validity of this detention. Most of the detained indicated that they had been subjected to a personal inspection procedure and that they had been stripped naked during that personal inspection. Well, it's a pity the chief of police isn't here, because I'd like to say that the terms of personal inspection described in the Police Act aren't exactly the way you put it. That's because it's really Art. 15d paragraph. Point 1 (3) of the Police Act allows personal checks to be carried out, including by stripping the person concerned, but there are strict conditions for carrying out such personal checks. The principle is that personal inspection is carried out without the need for persons to remove cover in order to find weapons or dangerous objects that could be used, for example, to harm themselves. The principle is that personal checks are not carried out by stripping a person naked. This is carried out when, as the Police Act says, In the course of this inspection, the fact that clothes are not taken off, the subject's possession of the items checked during that check shall be disclosed and when it is not sufficient to take them away. So the rule is, you don't do personal checks by stripping naked. Well, this shows that most people have been subjected to personal inspection in a way which, however, raises doubts because of compliance with this regulation that I have invoked. Another problem that arises in the case of personal checks, namely the need to strip naked, is how to carry out this check. Because contrary to the definition that a personal check is carried out by the need to remove the outer clothing, this check is based on this And that's what the Police Act says. That one part is first removed, i.e., colloquially speaking, into the belt, the body part is controlled, the person is dressed and then removed the other part of his clothing. And from the information that was provided in talks with the National Prevention Mechanism staff, it was apparent that this check in some cases was actually carried out in this way, but in some cases it was carried out in violation of this rule. And, as far as it may be possible, it seems to me to question the statements of those who took part in the event on 7 August from the point of view of the various forms of their activity during the event, it is difficult to assume that those who were subject to a personal inspection procedure on the premises of the detained were so thoroughly aware of these procedures that they would then report it to the Ombudsman's staff in one way rather than another. And that actually raises doubts. What was also raised in the course of discussions with the Ombudsman's staff, however, are the information obligations that are incumbent on the police authorities against the detained. However, a large proportion of the people with whom the Ombudsman's office spoke indicated that, contrary to the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, they were not immediately informed of the reasons for detention and their rights. I would point out that the Code of Criminal Procedure does not use the term "immediately." It's called "immediately." This is a completely different time frame when it comes to the information obligations of the authority or officer who makes the arrest. And that also appeared in many conversations, as well as the question of access to a lawyer or legal counsel. Some of these people indicated that they could have access to a lawyer and counsel only because lawyers and lawyers or applicants were in front of the entrances to the buildings to which they were brought, and during the introduction of these persons they were able to pass on the telephone numbers to which they might have tried to call. But there's been a rumor that there have been cases. This is due to the statements of the detained That even having this telephone number, the detained had trouble contacting a lawyer or lawyer, because the police officers said that the telephone number had not been assigned a specific name of the lawyer or lawyer, which made it impossible to contact a lawyer or legal counsel. Finally, the issue which was also raised is the question of the application of direct coercion measures in the form of handcuffs. Indeed, these direct coercion measures are applied in such a way that handcuffs are put on the back of the hand, but in the case of detention, when handcuffs are applied as preventive direct coercion measures, the law on direct coercion and firearms allows the use of these handcuffs by putting them on the front handcuffs. It is not that in the case of the preventive application of direct coercion measures... In the transport situation, it is not possible to apply these measures by attaching handcuffs to the front hand held. These are circumstances which, of course, require some verification. They were communicated to the Ombudsman during these 33 individual interviews with the detained. Here, of course, we will continue to investigate and confront the police position. I would like to stress that there are a lot of doubts about how police officers carry out personal checks. Already the first confrontation of what those detained were talking about with the provisions of the article. 15d of the Police Act indicates that the letter of the Law is not implemented in this respect. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u312	Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Spokesman a question? There you go. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! We're meeting with your supervisor tomorrow, so we're gonna learn from this action, but in order to have some idea of what really happened, I'd like to get some pretty comprehensive answers from you. First of all, how many arrests are there in Poland? In all detentions, are you trying so hard to examine whether they were carried out in accordance with the law, in accordance with the procedure? Secondly, what was the reason for your intervention I'm talking about the Ombudsman's Office. Is there a certain involvement of you in this procedure?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u314	The reason was for me to say essential. It was an event which was national in nature and where serious allegations of violation of the rights and freedoms of the individual are raised. It is hard to imagine that a constitutional body would not have taken explanatory action in such a situation. As far as detention cases are concerned, I must say, I do not have statistical data on me, but at the moment when complaints about detention are brought to the Ombudsman, we are trying to investigate all these matters. I can even tell you about some of the trends that occur during research into this type of case. This has been of interest to the Ombudsman for a long time. The provisions of the Police Act, which concern the personal inspection of persons detained, were included in the Police Act only through the actions of the Ombudsman. Previously, it was a matter that was completely unregulated. It was not defined at all what is meant by personal control, how far officers can interfere with the physical integrity of a person, its immunity. The Ombudsman's request to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court's ruling only last year resulted in an amendment of the Police Act and the introduction of detailed rules governing the rules, procedures and limits for carrying out personal checks. So it's not like the ombudsman suddenly woke up, got up from the stove and said there was a problem with the arrests. This is a normal activity that is done by the Ombudsman every day. This one, among other things. the national prevention mechanism is used. I'm talking about about about 100 visits to prisons, including police detention rooms. Such visits are carried out and identified problems are under way. So I do not think that this is the subject of a very special interest of the Ombudsman just now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u315	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u316	As your marshal rightly said, we need to ask around here. Maybe I'll clarify my question. I didn't ask for your credit for sealing so that we could define it. The issue of civil rights in laws. It is glorious and good that this is a statutory provision available to all, and it is not, for example. I.A.P.D. briefing. But I'm asking about this particular case. Then I'll say it again. Whether it was at the request of any person or group of persons, or whether the state itself carried out this research effort. I'm not talking about this national prevention system, as you put it, I'm talking about this one action. Have such actions been carried out before? Well, maybe there's no memory of previous years, so I'm gonna ask about these this year. And how many such projects were there? It's just, how often do you get involved in police actions that involve arresting people? Because it's not arresting anymore, it's more of a matter of detention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u317	We don't participate in a police action involving... [[Okay, we're investigating... please don't take my word for it! How often do you study?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, I would very much ask for restraint.]] In the police action of arresting us, we visit the places of detention. The matter, as I say, was of a national nature, therefore the National Prevention Mechanism As the UN's optional protocol allows, it carried out such a visit. But besides, I can't give you anything right now because this year is an unusual year. Police detention rooms are often visited and visited by the Ombudsman's staff, as are the arrests. And it's happening in the case of the National Prevention Mechanism, it can't happen at all on request, it can only happen out of office. In the event of complaints, another organisational unit of the Ombudsman's Office shall carry out such visits on the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u318	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very, very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. [[I didn't sign up.]] Well, you're registered... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I've got people here written down... Senator Bogdan Klich is still registered. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's the senator, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I think I'm gonna start with what you didn't say to the deputy ombudsman, and what should be said in this courtroom because this is very important information. According to the report of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism implemented by the Ombudsman's Office, representatives of KMPT spoke to 33 people detained So you could say that this is 2/3 of those who have been detained. They conducted these visits in 6 detention rooms, so not with everyone and not in all the places we talked about today. And what's important is that these are the relationships of people who have been detained. These people's relationships must be taken into account, and so must I, and so must Senator Czerwiński. We have to deal with this, Senator, because these are the citizens who are informing you and me about the situation they are in. Well, some of them spoke. This is included in the report I'm talking about beating up police cars. I don't think it was, I'm just talking about what's in this report. Some people had visible injuries on the body, some of them pointed to inadequate application of direct coercion measures, which is what you spoke about, among others. Putting handcuffs on the back during transport, but also throwing them on the ground to put these handcuffs on. All the people who spoke to the detained emphasized... All those detained who were interlocutors paid attention to the enormous chaos of police officers. Very often, Mr. Senator, you can hear and see on the Internet film relations clearly dividing this police response into two parts: the part where the police behave in a way they agree with the rules, and the part where the police join the charge. Many people stress that, for the first time, police action against protesters has been exceeded by police powers. I refer to the information that comes from the witnesses of these events. The police powers have been exceeded, we can even say that this has happened in many cases. I asked the chief of police if there were legal grounds for intervention. A lot of people in custody say they weren't served, and you have to do it right away. They were not given, often they learned about legal bases only after a long period of time, sometimes after a few hours. Some detained say that after a few hours, they also received information about the reasons for the arrest. It cannot be so in the State of law that both the paragraph and the reason for the application of this paragraph are learned only after such a long period of time, because it then ceases to be the State of law. Some have also said that the protocols themselves, which should be drawn up as soon as possible, were only drawn up in the morning. That is why we need to ask what was the time for, what was the time for between stopping and drawing up the protocol. Was it not by chance, as many participants and witnesses claim, that this time was needed to agree on a legal basis common to all detained, and that these detentions in various police stations, detentions in various detentions and transport from place to place were needed to consult and establish a common position within the Police or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration? I am asking these questions because they are being asked by our citizens, those who have been detained, and those who have witnessed the arrest. They also ask if it is necessary to ask what were the reasons for stopping people as well, let's call it bystanders, i.e. The kind that didn't participate in the protest. And it's not just a matter for this Italian citizen, but it's also a matter for a few other people, for example. the person who walked from the store and who watched these events. I don't accept the idea that victims have to be in situations like this. No, it cannot be that people are being detained completely by outsiders, whether they are Polish nationals or nationals of another country. This can't be right. Cops, which shows various movies that you can watch... If Minister Wąsik hadn't screwed up and was in this part of our sitting, I would have shown him, I would have reminded him, if he was watching so many reports, these pictures and these videos that show how chaotic, but also brutally behaved some police officers. I asked about their age because they were young people. They were not only those cops who were trained but also well prepared to carry out their duties, and they knew how to carry out their mandate. Well, many say that at some point in Warsaw we have been dealing with a particular catch. And very precisely these people say that it happened in Kraków Przedmieście, about between the entrance to the University of Warsaw and the church of visits, that that is where this type of activity took place. And to finish: many people emphasize that policemen refused to provide information where they were detained, both to their loved ones and to their attorneys. That they refused to go the other way. The possibility of contact with families or with agents at the time of the arrest. And also that it took about 11 hours to establish a full list of people detained, that only around 3:00 a.m. did one of our fellow messengers finally receive such a full list of people detained. You could say that over those 11 hours, some of these people were people who disappeared. A citizen can't disappear. It can't be that suddenly after stopping it disappears from the horizon. Because then things can happen to them. It didn't happen, fortunately. But it can't be repeated, it can't be allowed to happen. Detentions were deliberately misled "Some say" . claiming that the power of attorney must be given in writing. And that's why I'm expecting in writing, Your Marshal, from your chief of police, information about how it was to fulfill this expectation of contact with a lawyer. Sometimes As they say, the telephone was banned or simply received a telephone so as to prevent contact with the surroundings. Well, how can a detainee tell anyone about the fact of his arrest if he's not in his memory? And he has the right not to remember. Your attorney's phone number? These are very difficult, very complicated situations. And the reason for these questions, which I am asking on behalf of those who are talking about these doubts on the Internet, on social media, is one thing: that the law should be respected, so that the citizen will never be harmed in Poland by unprofessional or illegal actions of police authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u320	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, as always, he provoked me to speak to Senator Klich in the beginning. We'll try to answer some of your questions. First note. When you say that the Deputy Minister and Chief of Police have re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re-re... This is highly unfair and untruthful. And so they had angelic patience, because they had to answer the same question four times, why the cops didn't have posters. It's those who asked, not for the first time, maybe not even for the second time, but for the third and fourth time they're compromising the Senate. Either they don't understand the answers, or they go out in front of the camera while they're sitting remotely, they don't notice the answers, I don't know how to put it... angry they do it to tire the minister and us here. Please discipline your senators. They can ask questions. But why ask the same question four times? Mr. Senator Klich, I must say that I no longer have any... perhaps not only doubts, but hopes of you. I would like to remind you that between the first and second round of the election you wanted to start a big action here: we are checking whether the elections take place fairly. When I asked what was the basis of your preaching here, from this discussion room, I heard: Facebook. You've become a slave to Facebook. Where are the protests you've been talking about, brought to the Supreme Court, the only authority that has the right Is that what you're looking at? Not the Senate! The Senate hasn't been since the electoral protests. [[And from what...]] All right. Well, this is the senator's level... He's from processing the electoral protests, isn't he? [[No, since the discussion, Mr. Senator...]] But not in the middle of... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you not to discuss with the senator who is speaking.]] I couldn't resist your tirade. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator will have five more minutes for the return.]] Exactly. Between the first and second round of the election, we're supposed to consider what happened abroad? And how many thousands is that? Were there millions of protests? Sorry, let's not exaggerate: how many thousands of electoral protests were there. They weren't there. People wrote about it. Everyone has the right to write, but is it consistent with the importance of the Senate to do this? And that's the way it's gonna be? Then your attorney submits to the Supreme Court, well, protest, because it was formally an electoral protest, a protest and a request for annulment of the election results. And he's not even going through the preliminary stage. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I'm terribly sorry, but would you mind...]] That's what I'd call it, put it together. What's he based his guess on? 'Cause that's not what you call it. On the e-mails! The Supreme Court rejects this at the preliminary, formal stage. Why? Because that's where the evidence is needed. In this House, we are not talking about evidence, there are no legal proceedings here, but we are talking about facts, not whether someone has read something in an email. And you just told us today that you read on social media... In social media there are also discussion circles in which they discuss the flatness of the Earth. We're gonna discuss this too, because social media is doing something like this? Facts. And here's the fact. And it was very clear. That the time limit for appeal to the court has not yet passed, to a court which is outside the executive authority, is a separate authority... The time limit for the possibility of appealing to the court of the detention act has not yet expired. Maybe there'll be an appeal. I hope there's at least one, because then we'll see what actually happened. Why shouldn't I believe the official and the executive officer? Why would he lie here before the Senate? According to his words, there wasn't anything that you said you read on Facebook or in your e-mail. Next charge. I don't know if I'm gonna quote that exactly: the chaos in police proceedings. Well, I saw something else. I've seen the police stand firm and the people Well, people, our citizens, unfortunately. They spit on her and called her names. If this is a symptom of chaos... As I say, I've been watching, you may have noticed something else in your e-mail or Facebook. Minutes in the morning. It's all gonna be a lawsuit. We'll find out what happened. The outsiders have been apprehended. A moment ago, there was an explanation about one bystander, what he was going through, and what he came from another neighborhood to buy a bottle of milk just in Krakowskie Przedmieście. He went by with the porters, right? It's like a famous cult movie. What is this debate really about? Just like the first time this isn't about proving anything to catch a bunny. It's about chasing a bunny, causing in society... well, maybe not psychosis, because it's too much to say, but the idea that something's wrong. Fortunately, people have eyes, they have seen with their own eyes what was going on there, who was aggressive, who called out words, who used words, who was jumping on cars, who was jumping on a police car. It was visible, there's nothing here anymore. You can't turn around, you can't cover it with press facts here, because the facts could have been observed by anyone. A citizen can't disappear. Beautiful password, great rhetoric. The escalation of speeches may be so, but it is on the other hand, indeed more and more these speeches escalate. It started... Notice, the same environment, even the same people. They began by attacking religious symbols, that is, what is most expensive for the Polish people. These are not only religious symbols, they are national symbols, our national symbols, because our history is closely related to the Catholic religion. If anyone says otherwise, they just don't know the story. That's where it started. Well, that's pretty much what I'd call a sloppy way of treating it at first as some kind of fanaber... And you had to go after it right away. It is not to pursue to show the empire of power just to protect these people from further walking this way. If a man first covers with a rainbow flag and a mask the figure of Christ the King in Kraków Suburbia and then destroys the property and beats the man, what will be his third step if he does not stop him? Well, what's the third step? Is he going back to painting pictures on the walls? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, one more minute.]] Yeah, it's time for a summary. I don't know if you're aware of the process you're supporting. For some political purposes, you can engage your intellect, your will, your time elsewhere. For example, to test us, the rulers, the executives, to point out mistakes, to suggest better solutions. You're getting involved in the wrong place, really. And getting involved in the defense of lost cases in this place, in defense Okay, let's get this straight. In my opinion, criminal cases, and even when other authorities should explain these matters, are unacceptable. It doesn't happen, as I said, for the first time, that's why these two examples were cited. You were talking about the separation of power, the three divisions of power. Fine, then leave the court to settle these cases. If it turns out that the police weren't right, but those people who protested peacefully, jumping cars and challenging cops, spit on them, insulting them, then we'll go back to it, they're still three years old. But don't do it while you're doing it and don't try to prove to the public that it was different than what you saw on the TV screen. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u322	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm not gonna speak because I'm in session, but I do have a reference to what the senator said. It seemed to me that the first were the bulls and the nationals who played the races on the marches... [[There were 700...]] The police didn't react the way they did. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, that's why I'm asking, Mr. Senator: will you take these five minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u323	It'll be less than five minutes. I would like to assure Senator Czerwiński that if Senator Czerwiński were the person that the police treat like this, I would also be in your defense. If you were the person who was attacked by a young policeman, as you see in this film as well as I do, I would expect an explanation from the Home Secretary and the Chief of Police in this room as well. If you, Mr. Senator, were a person treated like this girl, I would expect an ombudsman to be involved, too, because that is why there is an ombudsman, to defend the rights of every citizen, and Czerwinski, and Klich, and any citizen who is not in the Senate or in the Seym. And as for these three things, I make you a solemn promise that I would He did, because it is not important to me what the views of people are, but it is important that every citizen in Poland is treated equally, so that the law means the same for everyone, that justice means the same for every citizen, whether he is sitting on this side of the room or not, and especially for those who are outside the parliament and who do not have senatorial or parliamentary immunity, as we have. Therefore, Senator Bosacki's question to our guests about whether every citizen is treated equally or differently by the police is a fundamental question, because it is a question about the future of democratic and law-abiding Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u324	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] More? Mr. Senator... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I hope you didn't have the false hope that it would end there.]] Well, I didn't. [[No, I'm joking, of course.]] However... [[There won't be five minutes either.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u325	Yes, a Czerwiński citizen in such a situation, I hope, will never find himself... [[I hope so, too.]] Why? Because it's never happened before, and it probably won't happen again, not at that age, to insult the cops, to challenge them, to spit on them. There's an old saying: "Wanted doesn't get hurt." Those who acted this way against the police didn't come there to take a walk in Kraków Suburbia and eat ice cream. Well, unfortunately, it is. As for equality of treatment, I agree fully with this, equality should apply to everyone and everywhere Maybe not: equal opportunities Also e.g. in the activities of the Ombudsman. But tomorrow we will come to that, tomorrow it will be a report. Again: I know that these young people are implementing a scenario from this environment. But why are you, a serious political party, getting involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u326	Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I can't get on with it, hearing the wording, the wording that says that when a cop pisses a dick, it's for the good of the guy who gets that dick. Mr. Senator, it's not like that. Of course, the police should intervene, restore order, but it cannot be said that the application of direct coercion, different types of coercion, is a good thing for those who suffer this compulsion. It is different, whether legally or not, of course I agree that this can be considered. But these kinds of thesis I'm hearing are just so absurd that it's necessary to say what I said. And one more thing. Is there a level playing field in situations of direct coercion, which is the worst measure for a citizen? Well, I have serious doubts about whether the same criteria apply to those who wear scarves of their clubs and make brawls and fights. It's not just a nickname, it's not just a spitting, it's also an extreme aggression, and it's the ones that wear colorful rainbows. I'm having second thoughts here, and that's why we're having this discussion. And that's why we're discussing it. It's not like we're determining who's guilty or who's not, who's out of the law or who's out of the law. This is not the main subject of this discussion. We are discussing whether all citizens who exceed the law are treated the same, regardless of their ideology... from the beliefs they confess. That's all, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u328	Thank you very much. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal? I'm sorry, but...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[I was in correction mode because it was for me, unfortunately.]] [[What corrigendum, Senator?]] Mr. Senator! Sir... [[What are you afraid of?]] [[I didn't mention any names. I didn't specifically mention your name, so... what mode?]] Mr. Senator! [[You said false, Mr. Marshal. There was no batting. I'm sorry. The methods that were used there were the most mild of all possible. Where did you see the batting in there? What are you saying?]] Mr. Senator, I think we're... [[Mr. Senator, I was talking about different situations. The sticks can and are used.]] [[Voice from the room: They can.]] I think the senator used a thought shortcut. [[If you think it's for the good of the guy who gets a stick, then I can't...]] [[He's standing there provoking that cop. You didn't see that?]] Mr. Senator, I think it was a metaphor after all. It was about something completely different. That's how Mr. Marshal wanted to draw attention to it. I ask again: does any of you who have not yet spoken in the discussion want to do so? I don't see any volunteers. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The commander has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Marcin Bosacki, Bogdan Klich and Jack Bury. That's it. [[Also because of me, Mrs. Marshal.]] Because of you, too, right? [[Yes.]] I didn't have it written down. And, of course, to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. It's gonna be on the record, and we're not gonna forget it. The discussion is closed. The Secretary of State isn't here, so... Thank you so much for giving the Senate the information. I'm about to schedule a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Now the information will be read.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u329	The meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. in the Senate plenary room. The meeting will concern the opinion of the committee on the draft budget of the Senate Office for 2021 in the section on care for Polish people and Poles abroad. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 14th Senate meeting to the Law on Special Solutions for Support of Uniform Services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the amendment of the Prison Service Act and some other laws will take place at 9.00 a.m. on 13 August 2020 in combined rooms No. 179 and 176. A joint meeting of 3 committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws will take place on 13 August at 9.30 p.m. in connected rooms No. 176 and 179. I kindly inform you that the 20th meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee will be held at 8.15 p.m. on 13 August 2020. The agenda shall include the opinion of the committee on the draft budget of the Senate Office for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-12-senat-14-2.u330	I'm ordering a recess. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 10]]
