ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the 13th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Alexander Schwed as the Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the Senate meeting room will be led by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Aleksander Sweed in room 217. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. As in recent times, discussions will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings are thus laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and in room 217 Senator Alexander Sweed. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I ask: do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? If not, please turn off these applications. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of legislative proposals or technical notifications. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that starting a vote in the Webex system will result in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 times the "Transmit" or "Submit" button after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. I'm asking you to give me any vote. One more person remotely... I'm asking those who vote remotely... One more person should vote. She's logged in, not voted. One logged-in person doesn't vote. See if you've pressed the right buttons twice. Now I'm asking you to give me the results of the vote. 88 senators took part in the vote. [[Voting No 1]] I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 13th meeting on 19 June 2020, adopted part of the Senate amendments notified to the Solidarity Supplement Act granted to counter the negative effects of the COVID-19 and most of the Senate amendments notified to the Act on bank loan interest subsidies granted to provide liquidity to operators affected by the effects of the COVID-19. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 10th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items be considered from the second to the fifth draft agenda, although the prints to those items have been delivered at a later date than those referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the conduct of the vote in the 2020 presidential election. . and to consider it after the point concerning the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, in summary: the Committee on the Functioning of the European Union. combating pedophilia; changes in the membership of Senate committees and consider it as the last item on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I object. Mr. Marshal Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u2	Did you, Mr. Marshal, already point three of the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances approved our vote? Is this point already in place? Is the order complete? Because we have a project to approve by the Senate right now. It's a change. Has this change been introduced yet? Can I refer to her? Because I am against this point, as well as against the addition to the agenda of the Foreign Minister's announcement of the elections abroad. And why, I'll be the one to justify it, but I'd like to have your Marshal's answer first.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u3	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're talking about the election for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u4	About the election, right? In that case, I am making a request against Mr Marshal's proposal to complete the agenda for information from the Foreign Minister on the conduct of the vote abroad in the 2020 presidential election. Why? First of all, because the election isn't over. And I believe that any discussion at this moment in the Senate about the choices being made will be a great dishonesty and abuse of the majority state. I'm against it. Secondly, I am against the fact that the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting took place a moment ago and this subject was discussed. This is a subject that can and should be discussed, but it's on the committee. And as far as I know, the committee was discussing it today. Thank you very much... But wait a minute, I have a three-minute rule to present my motion, Mr. Marshal... Good. ...and I want to use those three minutes. And don't interrupt me. And the hands raised here... I hope you won't speak because there's a motion for and a motion against. So I'm against it. But I hope that we will no longer listen to additional voices here, because this is not a debate, it is not a discussion. I am still in my application contrary to the proposal, which will be notified in a moment, as regards the third point of our order. I will give a thorough explanation why such discussions, debates in our House, should not be. They never happened, and they shouldn't be happening. The canons of political culture adopted for more than 30 years have been respected, and at the moment they are not respected by the High House. I'll explain it to you at the next point. Furthermore, Mr Marshal, wishing to complete the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with its Rule. 46 or 48 I don't remember... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 48 is clearly written that such a request should be filed 10 days before, right? The motion signed by you by Senior Marshal Barbara Boris-Damięcka and Senator Bosacki is dated Okay, let's check it out. July 1st, that's from today. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's not do that, let's not go this way, let's not go this way. How can the Minister prepare for the show in one day? How can you demand information from the Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, from day to day? Well, that's what the rules are for, which has been passed. We have recently made amendments to this regulation and have not amended this provision, so we should respect this provision 10 days before. This point may be, if necessary, whether or not it should be notified 10 days before the date on which the Senate meeting began. And I ask that the rules in our House be respected. Of course, there are certain gates, but I would suggest that these gates be closed rather than opened by you to use the Senate for election action at the moment. Elections are going on. Let's not get involved... Mr. Marshal, I don't mean to interrupt, but it's been three minutes. Already? That's the last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Yeah, I'm aware it's been three minutes. Thank you for allowing us to continue our response. That's the last sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, let us join the election campaign, but not here, not in the House. Let's leave the House out of the election campaign. We are politicians, but this political activity, let's organize electoral activities, ladies and gentlemen, outside the House. This isn't where we should be campaigning. The electoral campaign is conducted with voters and I encourage senators and law and justice, and the Civic Platform. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing this. There are guests with us in connection with the resolution concerning the outstanding Polish surgeon, one of the two most outstanding. And these are formal requests which have been made both with regard to information by the President of the Council of Ministers about the state's state of finances, which is very concerned by the senators, as well as to the appalling cases of obstructing or preventing voting for Polish citizens abroad. That is why I am voting on this proposal. For now...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u6	I'm filing a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u7	For now, one. Mr. Marshal's voice is a voice of opposition, and we will therefore put it to the vote. Since I have heard an objection, we are voting on the proposal on... As I understand it, the point concerning the change in the membership of the Senate committees and the proposal to consider it as the last item on the agenda does not require a vote. Mr... I, Mr. Marshal... We're talking about the Foreign Ministry's information. Yes. It's urgent. The point is to make the second tour better. That is, I suppose, the intention of the applicants. Who is in favour of us putting this item on the agenda? What point? Information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the conduct of the vote abroad in the Presidential elections of 2020 For now, we are voting on this point. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 51 votes against, 46 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Blackbay. But there's a second point... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances in 2020. and consider it as item three of the agenda. I'll remind you a little bit. Art. 48 (1) (a) Point 8 of the draft agenda or the agenda as a whole shall be supplemented or amended by formal proposals. I therefore make a formal request. Maybe I won't justify it. Let me be brief: he is exactly the opposite of the one you reported to Marshal Karczewski. And since we are talking about political culture, I would like to say that political culture, Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, is also an open debate at every moment and on every subject in the Polish Parliament. This is an element of political culture. That's why, since you're talking about political culture, I'm signing off on it, too. Yes, let's do it this way, with political culture, with full information. That's why I'm filing this motion. And I hope that Mr. Marshal will be the first to vote in favour of public disclosure, and especially for the public finances of the Republic of Poland. That's why I'm making this request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u9	I understand that Senator... I object. Mr. Marshal objects.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u10	Yes, I object, Mr. Marshal. I will justify it as in the case of this first proposal, but referring a little deeper to the constitution. The constitution, which you so often rely on, in Article. 95 says what belongs to the Senate. The legislative authority in the Republic of Poland is exercised by the Sejm and the Senate, but it is the Sejm that exercises supervision and control over the operation of the Council of Ministers. The Sejm appoints the Council of Ministers, the Sejm appoints the Prime Minister, the Sejm cancels the government. If your debates or discussions were held here in such a way as the senator presented it beautifully, referring to my statement on political culture, I would not mind. But there's been some information so far, and I haven't seen that culture here. These were the committees of inquiry which covered the whole activity of the government, the whole activity of the various ministries. That's not what he's gonna do. This debate cannot be held if there is no political culture. If, Senator Czarnobaj, such a political culture were preserved, if we followed the political canons, I would be the first to raise my hand behind it. However, I do not want the Senate as a higher chamber to become the arena of political quarrel, the source of political chaos. That is why I do not agree that such a debate or discussion should take place. And as far as your senator's motion is concerned, you were trying to refer the Marshal to you on June 25th. Right? Well, that's when you were late, too. You should have read the whole point. It takes 10 days to save, and it wasn't 10 days. I remind you, Mr. Senator, and you, that the Constitution clearly states what belongs to the Senate. We don't control the government, we don't cancel or appoint a prime minister, and we certainly can't become a committee of inquiry. And in the case of the previous hearings, the information of the ministers, you have shown that you want to use the Senate as a political or party club. That's not what my consent is, and that's why I object. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u11	Thank you very much. There's no discussion now. There's a motion in favour and the objection has been substantiated within 3 minutes. If this point is introduced, the discussion will, of course, be conducted in a democratic manner in accordance with the Senator's mandate. The opportunity to speak will be provided to all, as will the possibility of asking questions. I will refrain from commenting on the issue of debates because of my functions. I'm calling a vote. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators, 50 votes against, 46 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] Are there other votes on the agenda? Let me remind you that the change in the membership of the Senate committees did not raise any objections. However, I would like to inform you that a draft resolution has been adopted on the setting up of an extraordinary climate committee. I'm making this motion as... this is a formal point about the Senate committees. The draft resolution is open, it will include the composition of this committee. If any of your senators What we reported at the Seniors Convention meeting It wants to work on this emergency committee, which is set up to deal with climate issues, from drought and floods to green order, etc., so please report. A draft of such a resolution, a proposal to complete the agenda and consider how the last item is also proposed at this meeting. It's gonna be... Oh, yeah, yeah. I'd like you to know that such a project will be notified. If anyone wishes to work on this emergency committee, he is fully entitled to do so, in accordance with the senator's free mandate. Mr. Marshal... Yeah, yeah... You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion. I'm against...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u13	It's not... That's gonna be put to the vote... Uh-huh. ...so calmly. If a possible composition of the committee is formed, because the resolution must specify the composition and must specify the objectives and tasks of the committee... And where do you sign up for this committee? 'Cause I'd like to sign up. At the Senate Office of Work. Not your marshal? The motion goes to my office, but you can pass it on to BPS, BSS, the case is open. Mr. Senator, I suggest... Briefly, Mr. Senator Jackowski, because this is no time for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u14	I just have a formal question. Whether here the limit of 2 committees applies, or is this a committee to which you can enroll, being...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u15	With regard to the emergency committee, this restriction shall not apply. It doesn't apply. I see. Thank you. We checked it out. Well, after the votes, I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 13th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I inform you senators that immediately after considering the first item of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of the great Polish surgeon Louis Rydygier The vote on this item will be held. After this point a break will be announced by 12.30, during which the exhibition dedicated to Professor Ludwik Rydygier will be opened. Tomorrow, at 9 a.m., we will begin our deliberations by considering the point concerning the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, i.e. the anti-pedophile committee. Immediately after considering this point, we will proceed with a roll-call vote on the matter. Tomorrow, too, information on the vote in the first round of the 2020 presidential election will be discussed. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of the great Polish surgeon Louis Rydygier. Welcome to the meeting of representatives of the Society of Polish Surgery, which was founded by Prof. Rydygier, with the President, Professor Marek Jackowski, and the President-in-Office, Professor Kielan, at the head. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome President Grudziądz's representative as Deputy President... Are you President Glamowski? You're hiding. Hello, Mr. President. [[Applause]] I also welcome many invited guests, pleno titulo: representatives of the Polish surgeons' Society in the persons of professors Zieniewicz, Słodkowski, Tarnowski, Richter; director of the Polish surgeons' Society's office, Mirosława Misiewicz; Grzegorz Potarzyński; president of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship Councilors Association, Mr Waldemar Przybyszewski; member of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship Councilors Association, Mr Jan Szopiński; Mrs Domicela Kopaczewski, who was also a former parliamentarians; Mr Krzysztof Sikora; Deputy Marshal of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodship, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, who represents Mr Marszałek Piotr Całbecki; vice-president of the voivodship, Ms. Agnieszka Kłopotek; councillorz of the voivodship, Mr Michałejeckie and Mr. Kopernikańska Princess in Toruń, Mrs Danetta Ryszkowska-Mirowska; spokesperson, Mrs Beata Advent; curator of the exhibition "Ludwik Rydygier" (1850-1920). [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Richard Bober and is included in print No 148 and the report is published in print No 148 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Richard Bober, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! It is my pleasure to present to the senators on behalf of the Legislative Commission a draft resolution commemorating the great Polish surgeon Louis Rydygier. Ludwik Rydygier was born in Dusocin near Grudziąg Thus the presence of President Grudziądz in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, which was established by the Seymist in December of this year by Ludwik Rydygier in 2020. Indeed, it is an outstanding figure, a surgeon, but also a wonderful man who sacrificed his life to another man as well as a great patriot. 100 years ago he died in Lviv and hence the hundredth anniversary of his death, but this year it is also the hundred and seventyth anniversary of his birthday, because he was born in 1850. The 100th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Surgery Society, which he was the forerunner and founder. And we are pleased to welcome representatives of the Polish surgeons' Society today, on the day of the Senate meeting, headed by Prof. Jackowski, president of the Association. It's an outstanding character. The Sejmik of voivodship took action which tangiblely brings this figure closer. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in Dusocin, in the house where Ludwik Rydygier was born, in the manor house, very devastated, there have been measures taken that will renew this mansion, very ruined. A beautiful museum will be built there. For this I would like to thank the local government of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, as well as the local governments of Grudziądz and the communes of Grudziądz, which joined this great event and project. Indeed, a great figure. Ludwik Rydygier was originally educated in Pelplin, then graduated from Chelmno Junior School, where he returned to practice as a doctor after his studies. There is a hospital of his name and also a monument commemorating this outstanding figure. He also performed the first, very modern surgery of gastric resection at that time. Well, the patient didn't survive this surgery, but that was the result. Not a mistake in art, a medical error, but that the surgeon then washed his hands after surgery, not before. The hygiene issues were still very little advanced. Then Ludwik Rydygier worked at the University of Cracow, where he became head of the cathedral, and in 1897 he joined Lviv and took over the cathedral at Lviv University. He was active in Lviv's defense in 1918. He died of natural death on June 25, 1920, for a very prosaic reason. He had dreams, his dream was to actually go back to Pomerania and open a clinic in Tczew. There he owned a great estate which he had sold under a notarial act. Unfortunately, there was such a strong devaluation of the brand that his assets were not worth much the next day. And unfortunately, that's what I'm going to say, the heart didn't hold. He was first buried at the Łyczakowski Cemetery in Lviv, and then transferred, in the rank of the Brigadier General, to the headquarters of Orląt Polskie, where his beautiful gravestone is to this day. I ask the High Senate to accept the content of the resolution submitted. I would like to thank all the senators who have contributed to some of the proposed amendments in the resolution. Thank you, Madam President, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Oh, yeah. Before I cast my vote, there will be questions, Senator, so that you stay close. ...Poland of the 19th and early 20th centuries gave birth in outstanding surgeons, but in fact only a few have written down their names in the annals of world medicine and these names are still present today. The famous dispute about who first and what method reeked the stomach, whether Rydygier or Billroth, and what should be called the various methods, in the environment of surgeons is alive to this day. Another widely known Polish surgeon in the world is Prof. von Mikulicz-Radecki, the second great Polish surgeon. But Prof. Rydygier's person absolutely and completely, on the surgical side, on the human side, deserves the utmost recognition for the Republic. Senator Jackowski came forward with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thanking the senator for this very valuable initiative, I would like to ask: was there any particular timetable for the events that will take place in connection with Professor Rydygier's anniversary? Well, you mentioned the senator's determination by the Sejmik of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship this year by Professor Rydygier. Could you zoom in on the senator, please? Any more important events that will commemorate this outstanding figure of Polish science and outstanding representative of Polish intelligence of the turn of the century? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, unfortunately, the situation of COVID has caused certain events to be moved to another time, among others. In Toruń, on June 5, 6th, there was to be a meeting of surgeons in Poland, it was the main event, which was also to commemorate the character of this outstanding surgeon. Thanks to the Kopernika Princess, thanks to the current director, you will be able to see the exhibition that was organized and will drive around Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, visiting significant places where Ludwik Rydygier was staying. I think that if other cities are interested in it, the director will make the exhibition available so that it can reach other places of Poland as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u20	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor hospitably from Professor Marek Jackowski, President of the Polish Surgery Society.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! I am very happy to be here before you on the anniversary of the great Louis Rydygier. Remember, he was a man of good repute. That's one thing. Secondly, it was a man who, as a surgeon, had an improbable drive. He was an excellent scientist, hence discussions on his surgical methods, not only in terms of gastric resection, but also prostate. He ran a clinic where in 1 year he treated 2,000 sick, in a small city called Chelmno. A city in love. He was so energetic that he got his doctorate at the age of 24, his habilitation and his profession at the age of 28, so we can imagine how hard he worked on all of this. He also invented many new tools. And what's most important to us... The chain that I have on my neck at the moment is a kind of crowning of his actions when it comes to Polish surgeons. In 1889 he organized the first congress of surgeons from Polish lands in Krakow at the time it was called the "Reunion of surgeons," it could not be called "Polish surgeons" and since then he has been the first president of the Society of Polish surgeons continuously until his death. He created this company from scratch. We are infinitely grateful to him for what he did for Polish surgery. I am very pleased that the Senate of the Republic wants to honor his memory with a resolution in the century of his death and on the hundred seventyth anniversary of his birth. He's in the next room with me in the Cracow Surgical Department, Professor Richter... Because Prof. Rydygier was the so-called head of the so-called. Red Clinic. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to extend... I see here in the O.R. a few surgeons who we cordially greet as company. I'm so glad the marshal let us take the floor here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski came forward for the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! I, from this tribune, would like to thank Senator Bober for this initiative. She perfectly entered into the life dates of Professor Ludwik Rydygier, who was born at the end of June 1850 and died in August 1920... In June, 25 June, he died. But he was born... In August, 1850. That's right, August. So now, at the beginning of July... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry, I was wrong. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. So that when it comes to these months, it's perfectly in the middle of this resolution that we're going to be making. I would like to draw attention to three elements which could not necessarily be included in this resolution, because it concerns a particular person. I would like to draw attention above all to the generational context. Prof. Rydygier belonged to this generation of Poles, who were born about in the middle of the period of partitions, which remembered the times of the First Republic and the reality of the end of the 18th century, or could have had in childhood contacts with people in the old age who remembered it. And this generation, born around the middle of the 19th century, made a very important contribution to Poland's regaining independence in 1918, or actually in 1914 and 1922, because this process was extended. I am not speaking about his outstanding merits in the field of surgery because I am not a doctor, but I am a historian and I would like to draw attention to this aspect. For this commitment, this intelligent ethos, which is unfortunately forgotten today, and for this sense of social duty, involvement in various social initiatives. Professor Marek Jackowski just mentioned the convention in 1889. Not only in the community of doctors, but also in the environment of Polish lawyers, in the environment of representatives of other liberal professions, Polish intelligence, in the environment of creators who were associated, there were inter-election initiatives which had a significant impact on discussion, development of thoughts, exchange of views, and above all on learning about the environments, which later facilitated the integration of the Polish state and the creation of an independent Republic. It is also worth noting another detail of Professor Rydygier's biography for the period of his studies in Krakow. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the historians. On whether the Galician autonomy was sufficient, whether the political programs of the Stańs were satisfactory, why there was no monarchy, which would not be Austro-Hungarian, only Austro-Hungarian-Polish, because such were the expectations of Poles from Galicia after the loss of Austria at Sadowa in 1866. But one must pay attention to a positive aspect of the work of the Stańs and the environment of Cracow conservatives and intellectual environments in Cracow and Lviv, which created an extraordinary phenomenon of education and education. Therefore, many Poles from other partitions chose, if possible, to study in Galicia, because there was freedom, there was already Polish language, there were certain political freedoms and there was a completely different atmosphere than in the then Prussia or the Russian Empire. And hence this Galician phenomenon, which gave many outstanding professors, a system of education, a gymnasium, not to mention Professor Pigon, and the creation of a unique educational system in Galicia It was also an important element shaping the future staff of the Polish state. It can be said that Prof. Rydygier was a figure that synthesized various trends, trends in the second half of the 19th century and initiatives that appeared in Polish lands, and that is why he must be seen not only as an outstanding surgeon, a scientist, but also as a prominent socialist, as a man who remembered the intelligent ethos. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mariusz Gromko made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of the great Polish surgeon Louis Rydygier. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of the great Polish surgeon Louis Rydygier. I ask Professor Marek Jackowski and President Grudziądz Maciej Glamowski to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In 10 minutes, there will be an exhibition dedicated to Professor Rydygier. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 50 to 12 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u25	I'm reopening the session. We begin to consider the second item of the agenda: the Polish Tourist Bone Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 151 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 151 A and 151 B. Welcome to the Chamber of Representatives of the President's Office, representatives of the Ministry of Development and the Polish Tourism Agency and the rapporteur. Welcome. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act on the Polish Tourist Bona. Dear Members, this is a very important regulation, which is part of the legislative process which Mr Andrzej Duda has presented to this House and to the entire Parliament, always with extraordinary care for the interests of the family, the citizen and economic operators. This law appears during a period of very particular, very difficult time for our public reality, at a time when we are affected economically, but also socially, during an epidemic period. One recommendation for these activities is the problems of both Polish families and people who run economic operators. In the statutory regulation, which is to change social reality, it is important to time, dimension, but also the financial opportunities that we implement. Here, in this act, as in the proverbial Swiss watch, everything functioned in the way in which it should function, both time and place, Dear State, as well as financial resources. The President, in his legislative proposal, proposes that the Polish Tourist Bonus be established in the Polish legal order, which will be entitled as a benefit, just in the form of a voucher, such as a tourist voucher. The additional benefit will be granted to eligible persons, i.e. to persons who are entitled to an education allowance and a family allowance. This voucher, in the case of children who will have such rights, will be 500 PLN, and in the case of children who have an estimated degree of disability, will actually amount to 1 thousand PLN, because this will be done by an additional voucher. So, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, we provide the possibility of a decent working during the holiday period for children who receive 500+ benefits and care benefits, but we also increase the size of this voucher to the value of another 500 PLN for children who are disabled children. It is important, Dear Sire, that this voucher will have an extended payment deadline, will not cover only the holiday period 'Cause it just so happens the vacation's already started. The parents of the children will have the right to use it until 31 March 2022. The Sejm almost unanimously accepted President Andrzej Duda's proposal. We discussed it yesterday at the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee meeting. Senator Borowski, Senator Kochan, Senator Libicki, Senator Orzechowska That's when it comes to a group of senators. In most of these statements, this presidential proposal was welcomed very positively. Of course, there were also some elements in these statements concerning the extension of this bonus or the development of this initiative. E.g. one of the committee's guests, Mr Łącki, proposed to introduce the possibility of spending funds from occupational social funds, only for the area of the Republic of Poland, in order to help entrepreneurs even more. The Commission took this as a clue to the future You could try to regulate it, but here it is as if it were going beyond the scope of the law. The representatives of the Polish Districts Association and representatives of other entities present at the meeting also referred to this statutory proposal. The principles and shape of this law have been widely discussed by Minister Mucha of the Presidential Office. Ms Surówka-Pasek was also present. The Ministry of Development represented Minister Gut-Mostowy along with his colleagues. We, at the committee meeting, adopted this whole piece of legislation, along with the amendments proposed by the legislators, actually unanimously. A minority request has also been submitted, which will be reported by the representatives of this group themselves at this meeting. I encourage you to vote and support this bill, because it is an important law, necessary as well as expected by parents and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u27	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy... I'd like to... A minority motion, Mrs. Marshal. ...Mr. Senator Arthur Dunin, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make on behalf of the minority committee on social policy a request from minorities, an amendment prepared by Senator Marek Borowski, who talks about the addition in the article. 2 records of pension benefit. The idea is for pensioners and pensioners to benefit from this gift. And this is kind of the main point added in this article. 2, but the amendments are up to 9, but they are the result of this amendment in Article. 2. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that, as the rapporteur said here, this law has been warmly adopted. It's true. This is a law that will not only help families, but also the Polish tourism industry in its entirety. We believe that pensioners and pensioners should also receive this voucher, which will increase the possibility of making use of this money to the whole tourism industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Maria Koc, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, Senator Ryszard Majer presented the social side of the Polish Tourist Bone Act. Yesterday this law was also discussed by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation calls on the High Senate, the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Tourist Bone Act is an extremely valuable initiative of President Andrzej Duda, an initiative that aims to achieve 2 goals, as President Andrzej Duda emphasizes. These are two extremely important objectives in this period, at the time we are at present, i.e. during the economic downturn, the fight against the economic crisis and the epidemic that is still taking place. The social objective already discussed by the representative of the Social Policy Committee is, of course, the support of Polish families. Tourist voucher of PLN 500 will be awarded to 6.5 million Polish children. Children with disabilities will receive a voucher in double height and will amount to PLN 1 thousand. Dear Members, the economic objective is also extremely important here, as President Andrzej Duda points out. This is the direct support of the tourism industry, which has suffered the most as a result of the economic slowdown. The tourist industry that... Many tourist events had to be canceled, hotels and resorts were closed, all tourist attractions were not available. It's all just being released. However, this happens with some sharpenings, because the epidemic is still in progress and the risk of coronavirus infection is quite real. Ladies and gentlemen, support in the amount of PLN 3.5 billion will go to the tourism industry through the Polish Tourist Bon. The Polish Tourist Bonus takes the form of an electronic document. This is not a transfer to a parent's account of PLN 500 or PLN 1 thousand for children with disabilities. This is an electronic document. Once logged in to an electronic system, you will receive a text message in the form of a text message or by e-mail, after confirming the identity and data contained in the system, or after updating it by means of a trusted profile, personal profile or certified electronic signature. This will be a message which the person will give when paying for a tourist service, for a tourist event. By means of a travel voucher it will be possible to make payments repeatedly, which is very important, until its value is exhausted, as Senator Majer said, until 31 March 2022. The bonus will be used by all children up to the age of 18, those who benefit from the 500+ program, including those who are in foster care. By means of a voucher, you will be able to make payments for hotel services or tourist events organised by tourist operators or public benefit organisations organizing such events. It seems that this solution is most appropriate. It is about hotel services, but also tourist events, which according to the Act on tourist events from November 2017. Tourist event combines at least 2 tourist services. It is not therefore a single tourist service, but combined services, which also seems to be of great value here and will allow for financing of various types of activities. Whether it's a summer holiday in the form of a colony or a winter holiday, whether it's a camp, whether it's a tour, whether it's a family trip, or it's organized by tour operators, all of this can be financed electronically. Tourist entrepreneurs or public benefit organisations who wish to participate in the programme will also report their participation to the Polish Tourist Organization by means of an information profile in the ICT system. There is also a very simplified way to be on the list of tourists who wish to accept payments in the form of a Polish Tourist Bonus. This will be an online registration, you will need to provide specific data at the time of registration. If they are incomplete, the POT will call on the entity concerned to complete them within 7 days. It is estimated that this form of payment will be used by tens of thousands of operators in the tourism industry. It is also estimated that What Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy was talking about, that the tourist voucher will contribute to the growth of tourism in our country, because I remind you that it can be realized, it can be paid for hotel services and for tourist events in Poland. So that it will be a real support for the tourism industry, which has suffered as a result of the slowdown in tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been no formal requests in the discussion, but there has been a minority request, which will be presented by Senator Adam Szejnfeld, supported by Senators Jolanta Hibner and Władysław Komarnicki. In the discussions at the Committee on Economic Affairs, questions were raised to ministers, questions concerning the possibility of extending the catalogue of beneficiaries of this programme, for example, to seniors. We have discussed this and, of course, if the state's financial capacity allows it, it may be so in the future. At that time, seniors received a benefit, called a circularly thirteenth pension. In addition, we stressed that senior pension benefits were not reduced as a result of the economic crisis, as opposed to the wages of many people working for the contract of employment, because these salaries were reduced, some lost their jobs, some worked under a civil contract, work contracts and had to move to a parking benefit, which is often lower than the amounts obtained under civil contracts. Hence support for families, support which is directly directed towards the welfare of the child. We also discussed these questions to the ministers. If it is possible to extend the catalogue of entities that will be able to accept payment by means of a tourist voucher. It goes on here, for example. about cultural institutions or transport companies. This has also been explained by the ministers. The idea is that these services should be linked, so also a person, a tourist operator, who will organize such tourist events, will have to combine these different services, for example accommodation with transport. Yeah, like that. transport will also be able to benefit from the benefits of this law in this related service. Ladies and gentlemen, there were also questions about how the Polish Tourist Bon will be financed. There is an answer to this, it has already fallen, it is also enshrined in the Act: it will be financed by the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, a fund which was created by the Act of 31 March 2020 on the prevention of the effects of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases, i.e. This law called Shield 1.0. Dear State, this fund already operates in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, is a liquidity account managed by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, powered by the funds from the sale of bonds guaranteed by the Treasury. There were also questions about the lack of vacathio legis, as well as the exclusion of this law from the rigor of the Public Procurement Act. This was translated by ministers in a matter of time, it is a matter of getting this law into force as soon as possible. As the ministers said, but also the President of the Polish Tourist Organization, if we adopt this law without undue delay, it will start to function in the last decade of July, so that Polish families will be able to benefit from this tourist voucher on this holiday, so that the children will be able, thanks to this support of the Polish state, to take advantage of the trips. A vacation like this, I think, is very useful to children who have been for many weeks. You have to say it straightaway. They were trapped in their homes, because during our social quarantine, children learned remotely, there was a time when they couldn't go outside at all. It was a very difficult time for children who are very energetic. If we can make it up to the children in some way, then let's make it up to them in such a way that they can benefit from this gift. Parents who, as a result of the crisis, may have damaged budgets, will be able to send these children out for a summer vacation. Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been voices of thanks to President Andrzej Duda for this initiative, which, as I said, is very important in terms of society, but also economically. These are, as I said, concrete measures that will go into the tourism industry. These are not the only means, we know that, because the tourism industry also uses an anti-crisis shield, a financial shield. These are specific amounts, too. That's what I'm gonna talk about. So that this support is and is another tool within this support I'm sure they'll be next. Ladies and gentlemen, after the discussion, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation supported the proposal for the adoption of the Polish Tourist Bone Act without amendments. This proposal was supported by 7 senators, 5 against and 1 abstention. Like I said, a minority motion will be presented to Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Commission asks the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u31	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of minority applicants, I would like to present what the proposal concerns and provide a brief justification. We want applicants from the Civic Coalition to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of the Polish Tourist Bone Act and to cover it with the records of seniors, namely, persons with the status of a pensioner and a pensioner. What is the reason for this? Dear State, the government at one time presented the idea, declared the introduction to the Polish system of law, which was supposed to give the opportunity to finance holidays, holidays, rest for all citizens in Poland. Each of us, every adult, every working, active Pole and Polish, pays taxes. Therefore, if the government wants, in the opinion that it has such opportunities, to provide this support and finance citizens' rest... Well, it has to be done for everyone. Equality vis-à-vis the law and equal use of services prepared and offered by the public authorities should require this. Unfortunately, in the so-called meanwhile, the government began to withdraw from this proposal, the declaration, and the focus on these proposals. I hope that the fact that it happened in the election campaign is only a coincidence that moved from the government to the President's Chancellery. This is how we are dealing with the legislative proposal of the President's Office today, not the Prime Minister's. Well, the Prime Minister's not running. With this proposal Now it's Presidential, not Governmental. It radically narrows down a group of entities entitled to use this voucher. It narrows it down only to those families who have children. Other families, Polish families, who do not have children, will not be able to be supported by tourist vouchers. Even if they are not very wealthy or even poor, they will not be able to obtain such support, because it only determines the criterion of having children. High Izbo, we don't want the colloquially speaking to turn the whole bill upside down. Well, if we wanted to bring back the idea that should be considered the right idea, that is, the government's idea, that everyone Every Pole and every Pole, or at least every taxpayer, had the right to support the rest, we would have to rewrite the entire law. I don't think that can be done in the amendments. Therefore, following the idea of the President's Chancellery, which says not to support everyone, but only those who most need this support, such a form of help, we thought that in addition to families with children in this catalogue there should also be seniors, especially pensioners and pensioners. As we know, most of these people are unfortunately not wealthy. These people are often unable to afford even for a week Well, let's see. Relax outside of the residence. Unfortunately, these people... Today is July 1st, the holiday begins Not in a formal sense, but in a mental sense. Most of these people will spend this summer in their homes. If they have any plots, they'll be on the lot, but mostly they'll stay in their homes, in their blocks, because they can't afford to go on vacation, to get some rest. In this connection, we recognise that since the Polish state is already so rich, so generous, it wants to support those who require this support, it should also support pensioners and pensioners without any doubt. And that is why on behalf of the applicants, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Civic Coalition, I have requested that this bon be included in this group of Poles and Poles as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u33	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alicia Chybick came forward to ask the question. O.R. 217... Remotely. Oh, he's remotely involved. Excuse me. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u34	Am I being heard? Yes, you're heard. I'm so happy for you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, actually, for both rapporteurs. Are chronically ill children And that means these kids get sick for many years. In these children with cancer, will a single tourist voucher or a double voucher be paid? Children who have cancers, especially those with brain tumours, during this disease It's often long-term, as I said. It also has a disability. She, in time, if the child is rehabilitated, may withdraw. My question is what is foreseen in this regard. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting, one or the other? How much money is provided for those children who have also suffered the COVID-19 epidemic hard? They were even more isolated, even more cut off from life, very often locked in the halls, as was the case with my children from Cape Hope. Do they have a chance to leave Poland this year for a vacation? Holidays that will be paid so that in the case of a poor child can go with him because he has to go with a parent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u35	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! Ministers! Here's what I'm going to say: this situation was not discussed at the family committee meeting. But thank you very much, senator, for this question, because the senator is paying attention to a very important part of the kids who are actually sick. The legislator provides that this additional benefit, i.e. double, of PLN 1 thousand, will be able to receive a child with disabilities legitimizing a judgment of light, moderate or significant disability issued under the provisions on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. And that applies to children. So a child who has a judgment about light, moderate or significant disability will receive this double benefit. It's from the bill. If there's more, the ministers will probably say so in their answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Kleina's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Blanket. The rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee on National Economy. Senator, have you noticed that, however, this presidential proposal clearly narrows down the solution that was the original government proposal? However, this initial government proposal was intended first to support the tourism industry, which was in the most difficult situation or in one of the most difficult in general in relation to the coronavirus. Did you, as a committee on national economy, draw attention to the fact that this should, however, be a programme that first helps this industry and was brought only to aid or mainly to social aid? So it's been very limited. Also because it extends the time, so to speak, to consume this voucher until 2022, and this problem of the tourism industry is de In fact, the problem of this summer season. After all, the law itself will not enter into force until July, so when most people decide about their trips and so on. And he's probably gonna pay for his holidays by now. And that's the first question. Second question: did you draw attention to the fact that, so to speak, the difficulty of financing this travel voucher, that it is financed not from the funds that come from the state budget, but from the borrowed funds, i.e. from the borrowing that will have to be repaid? Did you not consider that this is, however, a bad way of financing such projects, that they should rather be financed by the State budget? And the third question is, did you pay attention to this idea? . who has been mentioned here, but has already appeared many times, that actual assistance to the tourism industry will be when the funds from the social fund created in various enterprises will be spent in the country, at least during the crisis, and not, so to speak, transferred beyond the borders of our homeland? That would be a real help for the tourism industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u39	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we discussed this at the Economic Committee meeting. First of all, I would like to refer here to the words of Senator Szejnfeld. That, I think, will also be in some part of the answer to Senator Kazimierz Kleina's questions. Senator Szejnfeld said that since the Polish state is so rich and generous, this catalogue of beneficiaries should significantly expand. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish state under the rule of the United Right is primarily responsible, i.e. responds to needs that are, responds to economic slowdown, to social needs, saves Polish companies, but also does so where possible, so as not to blow up the budget. So it is simply made for these needs, for our possibilities a proposal, a concrete proposal. It is, Mr Senator, that it is addressed to children up to the age of eighteen who already benefit from the benefit introduced by the United Right Government in February 2016, so-called. 500+, allows you to enter this program as soon as possible, because there is a database of people who will be able to use this program. If we wanted to create a new database now, let's say, of all people working, employed, well, let's say, for a contract of employment, then, dear country, there would also be a lot of doubt here. And why not those who are employed for a civil contract? How do I verify that? It's also a huge crowd of people. Of course, it would be very burdensome for the budget and, I dare say, at this moment impossible to bear. Thus, there is a database available to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, a database of those families that benefit from the benefit of 500+. The transfer of this to the ZUS and the creation of this program, I think, will so physically not cause the ZUS a bigger problem. Dear people, this help is too small for the tourism industry... I would like to remind you that companies from the tourism industry, self-employed people who operate in the area of tourism, micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large ones, can benefit from aid packages prepared by the Polish government in cooperation with President Andrzej Duda. In good cooperation, because here we need the President's good cooperation with the government to respond quickly to the crisis, but also to the epidemic. These aid tools, aid packages are the Anti-crisis Shield and the Finance Shield for a sum of PLN 100 billion. Both of these shields have already been helped by entrepreneurs in Poland. These are various types of benefits within the Anti-crisis Shield, as you know, micro-credits, parking benefits, remuneration subsidies from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund or, for example, exemptions from the Social Security Office. But of course there is also a Financial Shield, supported by the Polish Development Fund, where there are subsidies, also multi-millions, for economic operators, also from the tourism industry. Because it's estimated And these are the estimates of the Ministry of Development, perhaps Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy will confirm this. That the tourism industry from the Anti-crisis Shield gained about PLN 4 billion of aid and also about PLN 4 billion of aid from the Financial Shield. Tourist companies also benefit from the assistance provided in voivodships, as there are also shields, anti-crisis packages, and such assistance is provided there. On the scale of the country, this assistance in voivodships amounts to about PLN 4.5 billion for all, but some also goes to the tourism industry. So it's a lot of support. And this is not the last word the Ministry of Development has said. Because, as we know, you are already working on another solution. Because there are also some deadlines that are important for the tourism industry. Why isn't what we're talking about here financed by the state budget? Ladies and gentlemen, the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund has been established. As I said, this fund was set up under the Law of 31 March 2020. He just lets you finance these kinds of projects. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 65 of this law is described in detail what funds are used by this fund. Well, of course, I can find this article and quote it. But any one of us can do it. It is a fund created just to react quickly and to just make this money when such tools are needed and are introduced by the Polish Parliament... So it can be realized. As for the social fund and the provision that would require the use of these funds in their workplaces to use these funds only in the country, as far as I know, the idea of such an amendment was, but I think the Legislative Office said that it was not part of this law, so it was simply not notified or concluded. I don't know, Senator, have I answered enough questions or... [[...]] Well, I don't know if it's sideways. I wanted to answer straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u41	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u42	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, the Senator of the rapporteur, if I may ask. Yes, you can. Please. The government in its time proposed 1000+. I took it absolutely as an attempt to help the industry, which of all economic sectors at the end will come out of this tragic situation that we have today. I picked up that this 1000+ will embrace the children. Bravo, I'm always in favour and pensioners and pensioners. That's how I figured it out. What happened, Senator, that there was a change? That's my first question. My second question is this. The tourism industry is comparable to the agricultural sector. 60 billion PLN flows into the Treasury. Well, as I said at the beginning, every industry will manage quickly, and the tourist situation will work out for many years. I have this question: are you thinking about helping this industry besides these 500+s? I remind you, because perhaps the senator did not follow the fact that on 22 May the Civic Coalition project came into the Sejm, which received all the parliamentary clubs, talking about the tragic situation and about improving... the inclusion of pensioners and pensioners in this aid was intended to help not only pensioners themselves, of course, but mainly the industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u43	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Senator, for these questions, because they show the deep concern of the senator for the citizens of our country. Indeed, the government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is united in this concern. For the sake of both families and economic operators. This concern was expressed by further amendments to the bill, the anticovid shield. The actions we have taken over the last months have shown that we are able to counteract in a very effective way what the coronavirus does to the economy, to the Polish family and to the Polish society. You were very well quoted here by Marshal Koc about the responsibility of the Polish government for the budget and social reality. And it seems to be the key to answering the questions you're asking the senator. The Act on the Polish Tourist Bone, which we have been investigating recently at a family committee meeting... We discussed in very detail the issues of spending money and it was very clear: 500 PLN per child in the family, covered by educational services and caring allowances, and 1 thousand PLN, I have the impression that this is exactly what the senator wants 1000+. For a child who is also a disabled child. With regard to the future, of course every week, each month brings new challenges and the Government of the United Right will take such measures to minimise the effects of emerging and emerging pandemic threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The question is to Senator Richard Majer. I ask you a very important question for me: how will the benefits be paid to children who are covered by institutional forms of care, education or rehabilitation organised by the state, outside the family. I'm talking about the children who are in the children's homes, in the shelters for minors, in the correctional facilities, in the youth educational centers. I would like to have precise information on this matter, especially because these children either have no contact with their biological parents, or have parents who, for various reasons, cannot expect help, support or care for the organisation of holiday holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u47	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The subject of these children did not become the subject of yesterday's committee meeting. I propose that you address this question to the minister of the department, who is in the courtroom, and he will answer in a moment. So, as rapporteur, you don't know if these children are covered by this form of care? I know they're covered, but I'm the committee's rapporteur. This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. Okay, thank you. So that's a question for a government representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have questions and questions for the senator of the president and Senator Majer. My first question is this. Will it be possible for children and young people to benefit from this bonus, e.g. In Boy Scout camps? It is an organized form of rest, but often payment for such a camp, for participation in the camp takes place on the basis of the so-called. the membership fee. There's no invoice, no invoice, because it's not a service, it's someone organizing it, it's an organization. And then will they be able to... Will this form of organized recreation for children and young people be included in this provision? My second question is this. If it is covered and these camps are e.g. at the turn of July and August, so the funds have already been paid because the parents had to... Will it then be possible, well, not to refinance, but to withdraw the funds of the parents and finance this holiday out of the voucher? And finally, the third question. As I understand it, it is that if for example. 300 PLN will be used in this summer, it will be possible in winter... Does this 200 zloty remain, as if it is an obligation? I have three questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u51	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! We didn't exactly talk about scout camps, so I think it would be good to address this question to Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy. This is a specific form of rest. I think the Minister will answer that question. This is a multi-use voucher. So even if now, in the summer, the amount of 300 PLN will be used, then it will be possible in any other month. Until the end of March 2022. The remaining part of it will be realized until the value of the voucher is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u53	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! At the committee's meeting there was a definition of the recipients, i.e. the organisers of these services. We have two groups like this. One group are organizers of tourist events, i.e. tourist entrepreneurs, and the other group are organizations of public benefit. As far as I know, right now... I am not so deeply interested in scouting, but I know that there are at least a few scouting entities operating in the country right now. If the relationship of scouting has the status of a public benefit organisation as defined by the Act on Volunteering and Public Benefit Organisations, then of course it will also be able to benefit during the organisation of the Scouting Camp from the privileges that this law brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u55	Thank you for your answers. Please ask Senator Alexander Swede's question from room 217. ...the reporters of most of the committee... Senator, I'm asking you from the beginning because you weren't heard. Good. If you could repeat...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u56	Yeah, yeah. I can hear it now. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I would like to address my questions to the rapporteurs of the majority of the committee. I have three questions. Well, one question has already been asked here by Senator Jackowski, and I have three more typical technical questions. This initiative of the tourist voucher is another, already thirty-second positive initiative of President Andrzej Duda. But as for the tourist voucher, I have three such questions. How many families are gonna be able to use a travel voucher? What is the value of the whole program when it comes to the tourist voucher? And until when will you be able to use this Tourist voucher, will it be this year, or will this voucher also be used in the future? My question is to the majority, to the Senator of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u57	There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Bon goes to 6.5 million Polish children, to 2 million 400 thousand families in Poland, of which 1 million 900 thousand are families that have more than 1 child. The value of a single voucher is 500 PLN. As we said, for children with disabilities there is an additional benefit, so the child with disabilities will receive 1 thousand PLN for rest. In total, the value of this program is PLN 3.5 billion, which means through Polish families will go into the industry... Yes, 3.5 billion PLN, which will go to the tourism industry. The Bonus will be available until 31 March 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u59	Thank you very much. On this list... Me too! Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go. Where's...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u60	Yes, yes, look this way too, because there are more senators here. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the president, Senator Blanket, two questions. The first concerns the balance sheet that your marshal presented. It's about what to support, which Shields the tourism industry can benefit from, what is the respect, starting with the Financial Shield, antivirus... Well, plus the 3.5 billion zlotys. Did you analyze the estimated loss of revenue in the tourism industry in Poland? So what's the difference? I understand that the Polish state cannot afford to cover all the losses... But what I'm saying is, did you analyze at the committee's meeting that this support, including all the shields, is the amount of X, and the loss, so to speak, in the whole tourism industry, is that much and that's that. That's the first question. The second question is... I think it's art. 43, as I recall, concerns the local investment support fund, which is... Have you considered whether you discussed this at the committee meeting? If so, I would ask for information as to how the support for local investment has to do with the travel voucher bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u61	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator, you're asking for support for the tourism industry. We did not talk about the amount of losses incurred by the tourism industry, but such amounts did not fall. I think the minister responsible for tourism will be able to answer this question precisely. You said, and very rightly, that the Polish state could not afford to compensate for all the losses. Well, that's impossible. But this support is big. I've already quoted these numbers and I'll repeat them. As a result of support from the Anti-crisis Shield and the Financial Shields, Polish companies received support for PLN 100 billion. As far as I know, Dear State, it is clear that the Ministry of Development is working on the division of these amounts into sectors according to the PKD classification, but I don't think you have any accurate information about this yet. I think if they do, we can ask for them. But I know because Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Development spoke about it. That at that moment about PLN 4 billion from the Anti-crisis Shield went to the tourism industry, and about PLN 4 billion went to the tourism industry from the Financial Shield. So it's this kind of amount. Well, plus now it's a travel voucher solution of PLN 3.5 billion. That's the specific money I can tell you about right now that they're in the tourism industry. Perhaps they are larger, Mr Senator, but, as I said, there is no division into economic sectors yet, you are just analysing this, but perhaps the Minister will also be able to answer this question more precisely. At the committee meeting, that's the kind of information we discussed. You are also asking about this provision in the law that concerns the Fund for Local Government Investments. It's an art. 43. And here also a question arose, the senators asked about it, the answer was given by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, that it is that local governments also suffered losses due to the lack of income from PIT tax or, in the case of regional governments, CIT tax, these tax revenues are limited due to economic slowdown, therefore there is a need to support local authorities, and hence the idea which was taken from initiatives, conclusions of the Association of the Commonwealth of the Republic of Poland. Besides, the secretary of this union was at our meeting and he said it was their idea, an investment voucher. He was supposed to be in the same amount for everyone. This is where the proposed algorithm was introduced. And this art. 43 appears here to clarify the provisions concerning the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. As a result, it will be possible to simply give the Prime Minister such a disposition to release these funds and transfer them to local governments in the form of the Fund for Local Government Investments. This is the amount of PLN 6 billion. 5 billion go to rural and urban communities, 1 billion go to powiats. It will be funds for investment. All local governments receive them. The lowest proposed amount of this investment voucher is PLN 0.5 million, the highest amount is PLN 93 million. These amounts are calculated using such an algorithm, so completely objectively, there is no decision here on the basis that one government gets more for some completely subjective reasons, only measures objectively are calculated using this algorithm. As far as I know, local authorities are very positive about this proposal. The representatives of these local governments, with whom I have spoken, in my district, simply say that these amounts which they will receive, in two ways, compensate them for the loss of unpaid taxes to the government budget. That's it, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj would like to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Thank you for your answer, but, like Senator Klein said here, that's not what I asked. Well, thank you for your answer. Because I asked if you were talking... Senator says there's a lot of help. I understand that this word "big" should refer to the losses resulting from COVID in the Polish tourism industry, in this case we can use the word "big." But since there's been no such knowledge and discussion, then... what's going on with the amounts, we've heard it three times. And the second thing about the fund. I also did not ask whether the municipalities were satisfied, because in the debate I will tell you how satisfied the municipalities are. I asked what the development fund had to do with the tourist voucher, and did you talk about it, Senator? But if there is no answer to that question, it is also the answer. So don't tell me about the happy communities, because that's not what I asked. But I accept this information, which I will comment on in my speech. Mrs. Marshal, may I respond?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u65	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u66	Mr. Senator, it's rude to pay attention like this. I answer as much as I know at the Economics Committee meeting... But that's not what I asked. And I answer according to what we discussed. Perhaps your question concerns issues that were not raised during the committee meeting. I answer your question in the way we discussed in the committee. Listen to the committee's meeting, then you'll know that we haven't talked in detail about the Local Government Investment Fund. I am giving you the knowledge that I had at the committee meeting, resulting from the statements of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance or of the Minister, the representative of the Ministry of Development. I put it in the form that it was presented at the committee meeting, i.e. so that it is in this law, because this law now enters into force, and the provision clarifies the functioning and spending of funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. This has to do with saving the Polish economy, as well as the economy that operates locally, because we know that it is the case that if local governments announce tenders, they commission investment tasks, they use the services of companies that operate locally. So it's a very well-accepted program by local governments. It is also a matter of giving the Polish government the opportunity to implement it as soon as possible. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting, and that's what I'm telling you. That's all I have to say about it. Thank you very much. That's still...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u67	Thank you very much. Yet... Mr. Senator, is this... Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u68	I only have one sentence, Mrs. Marshal. Senator! Mrs. Marshal! I would just like to say one thing about the insultingness of my speech. Do you think the senator asking questions... Does the fact that we're commenting on this mean that these are insulting questions? I asked directly what was the relationship between the tourist bon and the fund, and you told me what you were telling me. I thanked you for this valuable information about satisfied municipalities, but that's not what I asked. That's one thing. Secondly, what I said about whether it's big or big... I'm signing off on what you're saying, I mean. That any help is valuable, but that's not what I asked. And I said thank you for that information for the third time, but that's not what I asked. If it's offensive and you're offended by my question, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u69	Thank you very much. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u70	Thank you very much. I answered according to my knowledge, which I gained at the Economics Committee meeting. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk's question, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u72	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Indeed, this money for our tourism is very necessary, because tourism is in a difficult situation, it is in a pitiful situation. I live in Kashubach and have contact with these people every day. They were hoping for more money, but unfortunately in a limited way... They're gonna get that 500 zloty. And you don't know when it's gonna come in, because, as you know, if it goes in a slow way, this year's not gonna happen. And I have a second question... The first question is: when is this supposed to come into force? And two: what about the notification to the European Commission? This is a question for the President, the rapporteur of the committee. All experts say it will have to be notified to the European Commission. What is the expected waiting time for notification?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u73	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. Indeed, the date of entry into force of this law has been the subject of our concern. At the committee meeting, it was my suggestion that we adopt a law without amendments so that the Senate would no longer correct it so that it would reach the President's desk as soon as possible and that he could sign it. Since we have decided on amendments, because this law has come out of our committee with amendments, if it is likely to be improved by the High House, it will mean extending the legislative process, because it means that once again it will have to bend over the lower chamber and then it will be for the signature of the President. So we're prolonging this period. The legislator in this legal regulation included the possibility to implement the Polish Tourist Bonus until March 2022 and it builds in us hope that even if the legislative work on this law will be extended, by March 2022 these benefits related to the Polish Tourist Bonus will be used. As for the second part of the question, about this notification in the European Commission, I will say that this was not the subject of our committee's deliberations, and I do not know whether the Innovation Committee discussed this. Perhaps this is a question for the Minister of Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u75	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Ewa Matecka in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u76	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for you, senator of the rapporteur. Please make sure that I am convinced that for 1 child I have 1 voucher of 500 PLN to be used for 3 holiday seasons, i.e. in 2020, 2021 and 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u77	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! Yes, it is 1 voucher of PLN 500, awarded in electronic form. This is not a transfer of funds to your parents' account, it is an electronic document. A 500 PLN voucher will be available until the end of March 2022. In the case of a child with a disability there is an additional benefit of PLN 500, so the disabled child will receive a benefit for rest of PLN 1 thousand. As I said, this witness will go to 6.5 million Polish children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Potatoak's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, rapporteur! I have a question about the possibility of using this voucher by sports organisations that organize training camps and sports camps for schoolchildren. Some of them are registered in the district old age, and some of them are registered in the KRS. Will they be entitled to benefit from this gift to the participants of their camps? There are also national organisations such as AZS or the School Sports Union, which conduct training and sports activities among children and young people, but also organize sports camps. Will children participating in sports holidays organised by these entities be able to benefit from this bonus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u81	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u82	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! The Act provides that payments under the voucher may be made by tourist companies and public benefit organisations. I think that these sports organisations, which have the status of a public benefit organisation, will also be able to benefit from this form of payment, but we have not discussed this form of rest at the Economic Committee meeting. I think it would be good for you to address this question to a representative of the Ministry of Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u83	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u84	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Senators of the majority of the committee. Well, there was concern about deadlines here, about when this money could go directly to the children, to the families, to the beneficiaries. I would like to ask when the Sejm handled this bill and whether the Senate could have taken care of it earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u85	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u86	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Sejm adopted that law on 19 June 2020. We know the vacation's already started. If we could run this tourist voucher as soon as possible, the children could still use it during this holiday. During yesterday's discussion, we received assurances from the Ministry of Development, but also from the Polish Tourism Organization, that this programme could be launched in the last decade of July, of course if, without undue delay, it was adopted by the Polish Parliament and signed by President Andrzej Duda, who is the applicant for this submission. I think that Minister Gut-Mostowy and President of the Polish Tourism Organization, who are in the room, could confirm what they said yesterday. The last decade of July is a possible date here, so still during this holiday children could benefit from this gift. Indeed, we must work quickly to enable them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u87	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask Senator Majer something. Mr Senator said that the best solution would be for the Senate to adopt a law without amendments, as another solution would greatly extend the legislative process. Answer me the following question: if today the Senate accepts this bill of amendments and the Sejm is assembled tomorrow, could the President sign it tomorrow? That's the first question. If the United Right, as is often said here, was so determined... And the second question about the adoption of the law without amendment. Do you know that the Law and Justice also want to make an amendment to this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u89	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Excuse me, sir, but the Senator rapporteur hasn't been around since he was in, and this isn't a place to make any assumptions about what the lower chamber will do with this document. All I said was that if we accepted this document without amendments, he could be on the President's desk tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and if we introduced an amendment into this document, we would naturally extend the legislative process. Thank you very much... And second question. Second question. You're welcome... Do you want me to say it again? The second question concerned the extension of the legislative process. Do you know that the Law and Justice are also going to make an amendment to this bill? If we're making amendments, then, as I understand it... Oh, that's why... We enter, you enter. Yes? Everyone has equal rights and everyone can make adjustments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u91	Thank you very much. The list of people asking questions has been exhausted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes? Senator Magdalena Lovers. There you go. Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister a question... It's not now, it's now for the rapporteurs' senators. No, I'm sorry, I have a question for the ministers. So the list of people asking the rapporteurs was exhausted after all. The bill was a draft by the President and Members. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek and Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha were authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. In the hall we host the Undersecretary of State, Mrs. Anna Surrowka-Pasek. I have a question as to whether you wish to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present... You're also Minister Mucha. Oh, there's also Minister Mucha. I'm sorry, I didn't notice. You've been gone since the beginning. Do the President's representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u92	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I know that in the Senator's report, your marshal has been well discussed with regard to the subject matter and subject matter of this law. This is an important presidential initiative. This Act on the Polish Tourist Bone is today expected and by Polish entrepreneurs who operate in the tourism industry, and by millions of Polish families. We have 6 million beneficiaries when it comes to children to whom this benefit will come. These are the funds which will be directly spent during the tourist stay in the Republic of Poland, the funds in the amount of PLN 500 to be used. In the case of children with disabilities, as you know, with an additional tourist bon... The total amount will then amount to PLN 1 thousand. These measures will be directly addressed to all those who are currently covered by the 500+ family programme. This is support, which, as in the course of the debate by the senators, could have been raised, perhaps still in July, if the bill in this form had been adopted and signed by the President. Such declarations fall on the part of the Social Insurance Institution, by the Polish Tourist Organization. These entities are prepared to start this payment after the entry into force of the Act. This is support for Polish families, which today is also conditioned by the special situation of the Polish tourism industry. We are in a pandemic state, we are in a situation where all over the world we are fighting the effects of COVID-19 and in terms of public health, and in terms of the social, economic consequences of this epidemic. The tourism industry has been affected to a great extent by these restrictions, which result on the one hand, of course, from changed social behaviour, on the other hand. After all, from the ongoing state of the epidemic. Because we've had an epidemic since March 20th. These legal solutions, which were consulted with the environment of Polish entrepreneurs, were discussed directly by the President in the framework of the Enterprise Council, the National Development Council, were discussed with the president's advisors, and were also the subject of conferences, arrangements and meetings held by Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy and chaired by Prime Minister Emilewicz. And here also, with regard to one of the questions or one of the statements made by the senators, it is necessary to make it clear that there was no such will to participate in the costs of entrepreneurs. So back to these original projects or concepts... This concept also evolved in the course of work on the law in the President's Chancellery, conducted jointly with the Ministry of Development, also the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. And this solution seems to us today to be the best solution, the best solution, which is also accepted by entrepreneurs. The electronic formula is used to ensure that the resources can be mobilised very quickly. Code that can be used by a parent or legal guardian Because, as we have said, these benefits also include children in foster care, this is a code that can be used for a one-off payment if the whole amount is used in the case of the hotel service concerned or for a given tourist event, but can also be used repeatedly if the limit would not be used in the case of one payment. Payment is made via the Social Security Office within 14 days. So an entrepreneur who provides such hotel services, whether it's a hotel or something related to an agrotourism farm... This is very broad in terms of potential beneficiaries. According to an estimate of 85% These measures will go to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And this is the intention of President Andrzej Duda, who has been taking very clear action since the start of this pandemic in the field of public health protection and also in support of entrepreneurs. The intention is that these measures on the one hand serve the Polish family, and on the other hand, they are of course support for the Polish tourism industry. And here there is no doubt that these measures will also be such a mechanism of stimulation. Because we know that in many cases it will not only spend this amount out of a voucher, but this amount out of a voucher will be part of the payment for your stay, families will add their own funds to it. So that we want to help this branch of the economy, which is the tourism industry, in a special way. As I said, an additional tourist voucher also applies to those children who are disabled. In this case this help is 1 thousand PLN. As regards the granting of this benefit, the benefits are covered by those children who have the right to an education allowance at the date of entry into force of the Act and those who collect the benefit for the disabled child. However, they will also acquire this right for children who will be entitled to receive an education allowance by 31 December 2021 and for children who will receive a disability ruling, a light, moderate or significant disability or a judgment treated on an equal footing with those decisions by 31 December 2021. Financing of hotel services and tourist events That's what I'm talking about. These can be all kinds of activities: staying in a hotel, going to a scouting camp, sports camp, also a rehabilitation tournament. Payment, as mentioned here, after registration on the ZUS electronic service platform. But here I would also like to stress very clearly that all children are covered, including those in the KRUS system. Here the payer is ZUS, but no one is excluded from this benefit. The right to benefit in the form of a voucher will be determined by the Polish Tourist Organization on the basis of information from the Minister responsible for family affairs. This right to pay for this benefit will expire on 31 March 2020. So here, the President's intention is that it would be possible to benefit from this benefit from these holidays, but it will be a benefit that will enable these forms of activity until the end of the first quarter of 2020 or even later, because payment must... The following 2022, I'm sorry. 31 March 2022 The assumption is that the service itself can be performed even later, but the payment will have to be made up to this date. Finally, I would like to stress that this Act on the Polish Tourist Bon improves the situation of families raising children, tourist enterprises and public benefit organisations. It was unanimously supported during the committee's work during this final vote, the work of both committees. Previously, with great support was accepted by the Polish Sejm. Knowing that these are good legal solutions, expected by Polish families and expected by the Polish tourism industry, I dare ask the High Senate to support this presidential initiative presented by President Andrzej Duda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u93	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Senators are already enrolled to ask questions. I'm asking Senator Magdalena Loven to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u94	Thank you very much. My question is actually also a statement of the fact that we are doing some kind of manipulation here, especially when the Senators of Law and Justice are applying for this law without amendments because of the need to implement it quickly and give rise to false hopes in our fellow countrymen that this law can enter into force already in July and can be introduced into socio-economic circulation. Do you intend to Is this a question for the Minister to disregard the rules or not to apply the rules in force in the European Union? It's about the bill being notified. 'Cause we're gonna wait a while with a notification. The second point is that it's hard not to see the connection between this law and the presidential campaign. Why? That's because, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the president's decision here to put her into practice, it's the government's. And the government came up with an anti-crisis shield. I can't remember which number, number one, number two, number three, or number fifty eight. Because it still doesn't see certain problems in certain sectors. Tourism was the industry that was affected by the coronavirus apparently the strongest of all industries. Question is, are you replacing the government here, incompetent and slow? Because when it comes to tardiness about adopting anything about tourism and helping tourism, we may have more complaints about the government than about the Senate or the Polish Parliament. Where did the presidential initiative come from, not the government at the time? The Minister, discussing this bill today, even said how long it took for you to work in the firm and who you are working with. If I look at initiatives, opportunities, powers of the President and governments to introduce a voucher and support a particular branch of the economy, I see here the role of the government which has delayed work on this issue. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u95	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u96	I cannot agree with the senator, I do not share the view that the government has been delaying work in any way. On the other hand, you can say that there are a number of actions that go hand in hand. On the one hand, they are widely discussed here, and this is also what you spoke about by Marshal Maria Koc, regulations or legal solutions related to the provision of financial liquidity, related to support for Polish entrepreneurs, are made public by your Prime Minister about the amount of support already granted. In addition, in the framework of the shield, Ms Emilewicz also spoke about this in the Sejm, in particular, support was given to entrepreneurs who operate in the tourism sector. This discussion, which was taking place, took place in parallel among professionals. Besides, the conferences that were held when the President was directing the bill to the Parliament's work showed that the tourism industry accepted the bill, approved it and supported it. There was a meeting attended by Prime Minister Emilewicz, together with the Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek present here, and those voices from the environment that came to us were very positive. So this is the president's good cooperation with the government, not the government's replacement. According to the Constitution, the Senator, the President of the Republic of Poland, has the right of legislative initiative. If there is a need to notify an important legal act at a given time, he does so of course. Those consultations that were held It is natural to have been conducted also with the participation of professionals, experts, representatives of the Ministry of Development, also the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, ZUS, Polish Tourism Organization and trade organizations. I was also talking about experts who are at the President's Office. Besides, it's all over the idea. And that's probably what people who have been here for many years. A solution similar to the tourist voucher has been discussed for many years. You could say that it's updated at a certain point. Of course, these circumstances are objectively very unfavorable, because we have a global epidemic of Coronavirus, but this was an answer indicating two aspects, first of all, that for the President the absolute priority is the issues of the Polish family and the protection of Polish families, and secondly that this industry, which requires special intervention and special assistance. And I'm sure the Minister will be able to provide details of the tourism industry. Hence the actions we have taken. There was also a very specific question, senator, about notification. We know there's already been a prenotice. Talks are ongoing with the European Commission. I'm convinced... This, of course, is the decision of the High Senate. In any case, during the work of the committee, such requests were made to adopt a law without amendments. If the law had been adopted without amendments, we would have had such a situation simply because of the Constitution's content. She said she'd be signed by the President. After the President has been decided in accordance with the rule of the article. It would enter into force on the day following that of its publication. If the High Senate, which is of course a sovereign decision of the Senate, introduces at least one amendment, any amendment, then the bill will go to the Sejm and then it will be proceded in the Sejm, which will have to decide on this solution. Such solutions are already in place, as the Minister, in Hungary, France or Bulgaria, said at the committee meeting. Italy also announced the introduction of a similar voucher. We are here in an absolute vanguard when it comes to responding to crisis situations, and we are also acting in the right interest of Polish families. I think that support of PLN 1 thousand from the perspective of children with disabilities it is also a clear provision to families of measures that allow them to think about organisations, e.g. departure to a rehabilitation tournament or other activities. We tried to build this bill according to our best will and knowledge. I am convinced that these legal solutions are appropriate, and I do not expect any negative action here in contact with the European Commission. As we say, these are solutions that are already being introduced or implemented in Europe in other countries and have been well prepared in discussions with the social side, with the business community and with government administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u97	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Szejnfeld a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, you are acting on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland. As we know, the president is a constitutional guardian. I would therefore like to know how the President looks at the non-constitutional changes that have been made... or the changes that have been introduced unconstitutionally in the President's proposal. Namely, it's about art. 42 and 43, which, as the Senate Legislative Office has shown, have been introduced in breach of the provisions of Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution in the Sejm, i.e. using the so-called. circumvention of the legislative initiative. Well, the constitutional guardian should probably react radically and quickly here. That's one question. And second question. I'm also interested in how the President reacts to the fact that within the framework of How do I understand? - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 43, first of all, which has been introduced here without regulations or constitutional rules, secondly, which we are just working on, even the Senate has not approved it, even if there were no amendments, it would probably be a few dozen more hours or some days until this provision enters into force, and what if there were to be amendments, if the bill were to go to the Sejm and so on... In the meantime, we hear that, although you are not the President, you are the Prime Minister, although the law is the President, he is already giving away money from this fund on the basis of the rules to which the article refers. 43, as I said, put into this law completely beyond the principles of correct legislation. These 2 articles have no connection to this law, have no connection to tourist vouchers, etc., etc. And what did the president say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u99	It is, of course, that the entitled persons have the right to submit amendments to the law in the course of their legislative work. Eventually, the Sejm, later the Senate, determines the shape of these rules. With regard to the legal solutions related to the COVID-19 fund, of course this connection occurs because it is a fund from which the Polish Tourist Bon is also financed. I think that the representatives of the government, whether the Minister or the Ministry of Finance, will also be able to identify the circumstances which were already discussed during the parliamentary debate. And for me, as a local governmentman, an important element of this discussion, in which, of course, we have to weigh the rations. And that, too, is a decision that will depend on the will of the High Senate. There is an argument raised by the local government. For example, yesterday in both committees there would be representatives of either the Polish County Association or the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, and a representative, the Secretary General of the Rural Union, spoke very clearly about the need for this support for local governments. In a pandemic situation, we reach for emergency solutions. To be perfectly honest, with regard to the content of the laws that were within the framework of shields 1, 2, 3, 4 It was there, I say yes, extraordinary legal solutions, but it is precisely the emergency, pandemic situation that you said: yes, we must immediately decide to introduce a legal solution or a legal instrument that will protect jobs that will provide liquidity. Today, local government officials say this: Art. 42 and 43 in this law are the provisions expected by the local community. So at the legislative stage... I would not like to rule in favour of the High House whether we are dealing with any violation of any constitutional standard. I draw attention to what a representative of the Ministry of Finance also said yesterday, that at a very early stage of legislative work, these amendments appeared at first reading, the Sejm discussed it extensively, considered it, adopted the bill in this form. The local government is expecting these legal solutions. I am convinced that the Senate will make a rational decision here, consistent with the public interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u100	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u101	Not only that I'd like to ask, but I'll say I didn't get the answer to my second question. As for the first one, of course I do not accept this answer, because she does not exhaust the question asked, but I do not want to pursue it anymore, although the constitutional guardian will have to address it anyway, and so will he. But he wants to talk about Sasin's syndrome. Well, we're looking at something we could call Sasin's syndrome, which is the enforcement of the bill before it's passed. We had this case when tens of millions of zlotys were involved in the campaign on July 10th... Maya. ...who didn't just happen... That's where the money was triggered before the bill was passed in the Sejm. As I said, and I asked the Minister, I have the impression that the Prime Minister, but not only because other politicians of Law and Justice, even Members, see these scenes on television, give money to local governments publicly and at press conferences, I understand, on the basis of the rules that we are just discussing here today, this is the article. 43. How is it possible that before the bill is passed, before this article enters into force, public money is spent in the amount, if I remember correctly, of about PLN 6 billion? This is the amount that is to be distributed throughout Poland. On the basis of a provision which has not been adopted, it is not published in the Official Journal of the Laws. How will the Minister, on behalf of the President, comment on this amazing state?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u102	Mr. Senator, I don't have that kind of knowledge, and I'm not confirming... Or else, I deny the senator's statements that any funds have been mobilised. What's different is that there's a definite announcement... I'm talking about handouts. ...what else is that there are certain arrangements, what is different is that local authorities are aware that if such legal solutions enter into force, local authorities will be able to benefit from these measures. But no money was physically spent. As you have rightly said, the legal basis for their spending will only be if the bill passes the entire legislative cycle, the President will sign the bill and it will enter into force. So I'm going to say gently here, but quite firmly: let's not introduce public opinion. Misleading. It is clear that money cannot be spent. What else is that the fund functions as such. This fund is the funds available to the Prime Minister today, at the disposal of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. These measures shall be mobilised and serve to meet the legitimate needs which are linked to the epidemic situation. And it is true that today more than 100 billion PLN has been mobilised and transferred to meet the needs of entrepreneurs. I think we should be happy about this, because the Polish state is functioning smoothly. Another thing is that the local authorities say: yes, we support the legal solutions notified, which I stress. As part of the parliamentary amendment to the Presidential draft law on the Polish Tourist Bone, we expect these solutions. That's what the locals said yesterday in the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u104	Minister, I'd like to ask you something because the President is the initiator of the bill. Without a doubt, I think that the idea of the Polish Tourist Bonus is good and interesting, but the question is: why didn't the President include pensioners in the group? In Poland we have such practice that a large part of holiday trips are trips of children with grandparents. Often it is the only rest or part of the rest of such a child. So my question is, why aren't there pensioners and pensioners in the group of beneficiaries? If it turns out that the Senate will complete the list of beneficiaries for pensioners, will the President join as initiator? If this is the decision of the Senate To call for a meeting of the Sejm as soon as possible, preferably this week? Will the President sign a bill that will be supplemented by a group of pensioners as beneficiaries of the Polish Tourist Bonus?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u105	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u106	The President has consistently drawn attention from the beginning of his presidency to the needs of pensioners and pensioners, starting with the first project, which was an initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland and concerned the reduction of the retirement age. The minister present in the Chamber represented the President in the course of the legislative procedure at the time. The retirement age has been restored: 60 years for women, 65 years for men. The President has supported and supported solutions such as... I know there was a discussion at the committee meeting yesterday, or a 13th pension... But I'm gonna use that name. The 13th pension, i.e. the benefit that is paid annually, is today a permanent element in the Polish system. The amount of the lowest pension is paid every year by the payment of the thirteenth pension or pension. Moreover, there are solutions such as that announced by the president's prañana and the 75+ Health Center Act soon addressed to the Sejm, there are free medicines for seniors, there is a very clear declaration by President Andrzej Duda on the government's support for the announcement of the 14th pension. It falls publicly in the debate and these measures will be mobilised. The 14th pension would be in excess of the amount of the voucher, so I would say this: the 14th pension will consummate this country's initiative or the postulate for a travel voucher for pensioners and pensioners. I thank the senator for that question. This is our mutual sensitivity. With regard to the special needs of pensioners and pensioners, it is clear that we should support them, that we should do everything to make the standard of living of pensioners and pensioners better, and to be able to use hotel services and all forms of rest, activity. Of course, we would like these measures to remain in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We can encourage everyone to spend their holidays in Poland, especially in a difficult year of pandemics. There's one thing I'm concerned about. This is the answer from a government perspective. It is the absence of any assessment of the impact of the regulation, of any analysis of the state budget as regards these proposals. If the bill is passed by the Senate, then... forgive me, I am not authorized to speak for you, Marshal Elizabeth Witek, on the date when the Sejm will be convened. This is the direct competence of the Marshal of the Sejm, not the humble official at the President's Office. All the more reason for me not to speak as to the decision of the President on the date of signing the bill. The Constitution clearly states that it is the President who has this constitutional term of 21 days. I was talking about another aspect of the case, about the fact that if all these circumstances were to come true, we in the institutional sense are about ZUS and POT, as well as the Ministry of Departments, and we are prepared for these funds to reach the beneficiaries in July.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u107	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First, I will have a few questions about the Minister's statement, if you don't mind. The protection of Polish families, as you said, is one of the important tasks that you are carrying out, and here are specific examples that you spoke about. It's like I'm signing in... I'll repeat what Senator Kwiatkowski said. What stands in the way, according to the Minister, of this Polish Tourist Bonus... As I say, we agree on the idea. I will speak for myself, but I hope that we will all vote in favour of this project, and we would also like to gain in the discussion, which I urge, the effect of improvement, in our opinion, of this project. So, what's going on with those with the status of pensioners... I'm retiring next year, so I speak for the current but also for future pensioners. This is an important matter. That's why, Mr. Minister, I am speaking politically now. In support of pensioners and pensioners for the president in the first round... Well, here's the idea: let's pull the support element of this group because she needs this support. That's why I would ask you to answer this question: do you, Mr President or you, on behalf of the President, see the possibility of support? Well, that's gonna be a signal to my colleagues in Law and Justice how to vote on our amendment. That's one question. Now, one explanation about what you said about misleading the public, about what you asked Senator Szejnfeld. Minister, so that we don't mislead each other, I'll say yes. There are messages for local governments being handed out, and if you read the definition of the boarder signed by the Prime Minister, you will notice that such a boarder has a completely different power than what we are discussing here. I, of course, also subscribe to the fact that the local investment support fund should not amount to And thank you for that, too. 6 billion zlotys, let it be 12 billion or more. But let's not take trips like this, it's not... When a government gets a boardwalk, it's clearly a legal element. Now for the next question. Minister, as regards the issue of the possibility of using this voucher, I personally believe that the simpler, the better, for both parties. And we here with Senator Szejnfeld will make such an amendment to the record, so that this money can be used for a tourist service. I'll give you one example, Minister. There is a four-person family and wants to sail from Gdynia to Hel. There's the problem. Of course, they can pay out of their pockets, but now that we're talking about the spectrum of possibilities, let's not narrow it down... The case is simple, the family gets 500 PLN of support and let them benefit from what is related to the tourist service, so let us leave her choice. So that I would ask the Minister to support this amendment, which will allow Polish families to use this law a little more gently, I would say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u109	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u110	Starting from the end, I would like to say that in the case of a tourist event we are dealing with a connection of at least 2 services. If it were that this one, like the senator said, The passing element is part of the tourist event... If that were the case, it would, of course, be to finance it from the Polish Tourist Bonus. We put it this way that in such situations it will be as part of a comprehensive service that will be provided as a tourist event, that was our thought. Well, it is possible to discuss this scope. I understand that you are considering this too, but we, using the expertise of the Ministry of Development, and talking to the business community, have decided to put in place a framework for this aid to be intended for the tourism industry. Well, yesterday during the discussion there were very different demands, and I think it is right in principle, for example. the need to use services provided by cultural institutions. There were demands to include museums, cinemas and restaurants, but passenger transport, accommodation, vehicle rental and other services provided to travellers were included in the Act. This definition is broad as to what is contained in the tourist event. Thus these services are defined on the basis of the applicable law, the Act on tourist events, and in this context these solutions were introduced in the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone. It seems to me that this is adequate, because we can talk about staying on an agrotourism farm, but also about staying at a hotel. This could be a scout camp party. I was also talking about a rehabilitation tournament. But it may also be a tourist event, which in some package combines transport, accommodation, rental of vehicles, of course if the funds are spent on behalf of the tourist trader. In general, it's a conscious procedure, that's what we meant. There are experts in this room. I'm looking at the Minister now. Who have their own knowledge and ministerial knowledge. I think the Minister will make an excellent addition to my statement. As far as pensioners are concerned, I congratulate you, Senator, and, of course, I wish you the best possible pension. We do not have to find anything out here because support for pensioners and pensioners is a priority for the President. I am talking about the 14th pension because this is about further measures, serious measures that exceed those 500 zlotys. If there is a 14th pension And the president has talked about it in public many times. Well, she's gonna be twice as much as that tourist voucher. It will be possible to freely dispose of this amount by spending it on tourism or any other. If there is a resolution here, of course we will consider all these elements. In one opinion, I will go back to the very genesis of this idea. As such an amendment also appeared at the stage of the debate in the Sejm, we, together with the Minister, left this to the recognition of the High Sejm and the High Senate. If there's a solution like that, I'll be happy about it. However, I have already pointed out that today this proposal is not being analysed in any way and that there was a critical position of the government in this matter. The President's office didn't speak here in any way, because we're not the state budget manager. It is clear that the President would be pleased if such solutions were adopted, but it raises the question whether it is possible, whether it is feasible, whether it has been counted, whether it has been estimated, what impact this would have on the budget as a whole. The last question concerns the promenades. I'm not a government spokesperson, and the President's Office doesn't know anything about promenades. Let me put it this way: in my experience, if the Prime Minister says he will, it means he will. Even if there's no reason... I'm talking about... Minister, let's be serious. Well, jokes are fun, but we live in a state of law. We're alive... There's a constitution, there's a system of laws, and there can't be...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u111	Senator, I didn't give you the floor. And the senator in what mode? Mr. Senator, how do you speak? No mode. Well, you can't do it without mode. Here, in this country, it's taken its course. Mr. Senator, you may come to the question. You have a debate ahead of you. I'm sure I will. This way we don't discuss in the Senate. Mr. Minister, finish this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u112	If I may, I will finish with one sentence. I don't know what you mean by a specific promenade. I do not know what the content of this document is, when it was submitted, to whom this statement was forwarded. Of course, we're not considering it, but I understand it so that the boardwalk can also be a certain promise, a certain promise. We can point out here that today huge resources are being mobilised. For me, there is no doubt that if the Prime Minister of the Polish Government speaks in terms of some commitments for the future, then he is aware that these are issues to be verified, to be verified. Either these measures are already secured, or they're about to be secured. We're in my opinion today. - It's results from analyses conducted at the President's Office . one of the leaders of support in Europe. More than PLN 100 billion have already been launched in the framework of these activities for Polish entrepreneurs. I'm just one...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u113	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u114	I'm gonna ask you not to speak again. Minister, I leave this debate on the promenades, since it is a project that has been incorporated without the President's knowledge, I will say a few words in the debate. But as far as pensioners and pensioners are concerned... Because, like I said, I'm not gonna be in kindergarten anymore. Therefore, I would like to have a clear perspective on Polish pensioners. Minister, this is what I'm considering. Instead of 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th retirement... It is easier to achieve the same goal, Minister, by reducing the tax for pensioners and pensioners. There's only one negative, of course. Then you can't say, "I gave it to you." This parliament will be the one that gives. But then it's cheaper, faster, better, consumes all kinds of projects. Of course, without eliminating the idea of a gift... Because I actually think the idea of a gift is good and should be supported. That's all for comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u115	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz a question. From room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We didn't hear everything, because there was a lack of voice here, so maybe there were some answers to my questions, but I'd like to ask them. The first question, very short and simple: whether the money you were talking about The 100 billion and the money that will be paid to entrepreneurs and Poles through the travel voucher comes from a budget surplus or from a loan? A very simple, short question. Next question: why are you introducing a tourist voucher so late? Has the government not been interested in this at all so far, and the President's initiative was needed? After all, the pandemic crisis has been going on for months. When the country was frozen and paralyzed, radical steps really had to be taken. Today, when the country is frozen, when pictures from the seaside tourist centers, for example, show that there are crowds of people... crowds of people. In addition, we find out that prices are cosmic, that entrepreneurs, on the principle of demand and supply law, make up for the losses they suffered due to the fact that a little later the tourist season started. So are you really sure that this money goes to those most affected? Because from my information, some people are doing really well, I mean people in the tourism industry. Because at the moment and very high prices, and very large traffic compensate for the losses suffered. And finally, the question that was going around here, but, like I said, we were getting away with the sound. On what legal basis are Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Members of Law and Justice giving out promenades for money that are not available for money that might be? The bill is being processed right now in the Senate, he's going back to the Sejm. We don't know that with or without amendments. On what legal basis the Prime Minister of the Polish Government drives around Poland and hands out vouchers, which are a prose It's even hard to call it and declare money that isn't there yet? Please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u117	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u118	Article 4 is replaced by the following: Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act provides explicitly that the financing of the tasks of the Polish Tourist Organization as defined in the Act is a contribution from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. The COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund is the source of funding indicated expressis verbis in the contents of the Act. Bony, as we know, will be 4 billion zlotys. As regards the financing of the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, these are payments by public finance sector entities, executive agencies, budgetary institutions, special funds, public funds This includes public tributes, budget appropriations, budget revenue, revenue of public finance units, government securities and bonds. Of course, the Minister will be able to supplement my statement precisely, but such a source of funding is desirable. We are talking about the amount of PLN 4 billion. I am convinced that these are well addressed and well dedicated resources. Perhaps I didn't fully understand the intention of the senator's statement... Well, I wouldn't agree with that claim, but that's how you could understand it. That these measures are not necessary for the Polish tourism industry. I will not agree with such an assessment, they are absolutely necessary. Today, there's already an increase in traffic. This is a situation related to the fact that the holiday started that the school year ended But that doesn't mean that these losses have been evened out. Well, they weren't evened out. I also can't agree with the statement that... well, it's again about an extreme view. Why are you so late? According to my memory, the bill was passed by the Sejm on June 19th. It is up to the High Senate to decide when a law is being dealt with, which is included on the agenda when a meeting is convened. These are the powers of your marshal. After all, it was theoretically possible to proceed on 20 June, which was 11 days ago. There was no legal objection here. These are sovereign decisions of the upper chamber of the Polish Parliament and I do not feel entitled to speak in this regard. Nevertheless, I would absolutely disagree with the statement that there was something wrong with time. This is a complicated legal issue, this is a legal act that needed to be prepared. The funds to support tourism are made available on an ongoing basis, but I trust that this tourist voucher will not only be a one-off tool. Minister Emilevich also spoke about this in the Seym. If this solution were correct, we could consider It would also depend on the will of the Polish Parliament If it should not be permanently in our legal system. This is a solution to support entrepreneurs from the tourism industry and encourage Polish families to spend their holidays in Poland. This is also a very important element. But I will repeat very clearly: I am not a spokesman for the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I have the honour to represent President Andrzej Duda in his legislative work, but there are government representatives here and I am sure they will be happy to address any issues relating to government administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u119	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, please accept your thanks for this initiative. There is, however, a question that raised my doubts. We know that the voucher will be available until 31 March 2022. Well, we know what's gonna happen at the end of that deadline. It doesn't have to be a party that's already been held, because what else is payment and what else is a party. But what's it gonna be like at the beginning? Well, I'm sure the payment can only be made after a day that will be indicated by the Minister responsible for tourism. That's what the article says. 44. But can the party be early? There's no transitional rule here. There is no provision in the law that prejudices this, so I would ask for a clear interpretation, possibly to add a transitional provision. 'Cause notice that theoretically, there's an opportunity here. I stress: theoretically, payment with some delay of the fee for the event that took place earlier. Could such events be paid out of this voucher, of course, in case of a small delay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u121	The Act will apply from the date of its entry into force. Of course, the senator rightly draws attention to the provisions set out in the article. 44, provisions concerning the activities of the Minister responsible for tourism, namely the launch of registration and activation of vouchers in the ICT system, but the Act enters into force on the day following the date of publication precisely so that these actions can be launched very quickly. It is only after these actions are launched that we have received here a declaration from the Ministry that this will happen immediately, that it will be possible to implement the voucher immediately. Unfortunately, the rules are so formulated that it will not be possible to settle earlier payments. The voucher will only be available when these legal arrangements are in force when the law enters into force. Well, there's no legal option under such formulated regulations to account for any previously performed hotel services or tourist events. Of course, you are right, senator, that if payment is made by the end of the first quarter of 2022, the service itself can be provided much later. This system is that the payment is made by the ZUS within 14 days from the moment the voucher was executed. So the ZUS is the payer here, we account for the tourist entrepreneur. Thank you very much for your thanks and your support for the whole bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u122	A further clarification question. Because once again, we have a payment and a party. Here's the question. You know, payment after the announcements of the Minister responsible for tourism. But it's about the party. Could it be that the party can be refunded like this? So the payment would be made for an event that will take place after the date of entry into force of the law, but even before the date of starting the payment option. It's... We care about time. Actually, we're on vacation. Let's say... 'Cause it could be a few days. Well, it could be just after the bill came into force that minister's announcement... It could be a few days. Well, it's important for service providers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u123	To be honest, I believe that this issue is a matter of interpretation of the provisions of the law. Well, I'd take... Yes, of course, the entrepreneur must be on the list, these elements must be fulfilled in order to be used at all. So the entrepreneur has to be registered, the voucher has to be started, the family has to receive a text message. Well, I can't imagine the legal situation that the payment would be about a period earlier than the moment the conditions were met, right? No, the Polish Tourist Organization will start keeping a register of entrepreneurs only after the entry into force of the Act. So... Well, it's not possible to settle if there was no inclusion of the entity in the POT register, there was no possibility of using the voucher, right? Nevertheless, as I understand it, if the bill... and if all the conditions are already met... Well, I can also understand the senator's question so that it's whether the payment is made in advance or downstairs. Well, then it doesn't matter anymore, in my opinion. So, it can happen both in advance, on the basis of my arrival and on the first day I settle for the stay as well as from the bottom, on the basis of my departure and the last day I settle for the stay. But that is when the law and all the elements related to this system will enter into force and we will have to activate these systems. Well, because, as I understand it... I'm at a tour party, I have this deal, so I have an appointment with a health care provider that I just settle after a party, right? Well, I think that's possible, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u124	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? Yes. No. Yes, Mr. Senator, I can hear you. Thank you. Minister, well, I am also surprised by the statements of the Senators of the Civic Coalition, the majority ruling the Senate, regarding the date of entry into force of the bill and this tourist voucher. Well, before that, I think there was a suggestion that the Sejm could gather the day after the Senate. Well, after 19 June the Senate could gather after the Seym and we could process this bill much, much faster, not wait nearly 2 weeks in the Senate. I'd like to ask, Minister... Well, this program, when it comes to the tourist voucher, is really such a very clever program. On the one hand, we support Polish families, support children, and on the other hand we support the Polish tourism industry. So the program itself... Well, 3.5 billion zlotys of this value is this program. Do we have calculated how many jobs in tourism can be supported or saved in some way? Because we know that after the pandemic of Coronavirus, this industry is in a really difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u126	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Senator, also for this vote of support for the entire bill and for the idea that the President expressed here in the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone. I am also convinced that these solutions will serve Polish entrepreneurs. As for the amount, we are obviously aware that... As I said, it is 3.5 billion PLN or 4 billion PLN. - which will be sent directly to Polish entrepreneurs. I can honestly say I wouldn't be able to estimate the number of jobs. Because it's very difficult to estimate. It also depends on the condition of the individual tourist businessman, to whom the funds will go. And this is about a future event. Because it depends on the individual beneficiaries of these vouchers' decisions whether the funds are in one unit or another. So I can say that in some places it will serve to save jobs, in other places, more popular, it can serve to create new jobs, etc., etc. It could also be... We're paying attention. Mr Andrzej Gut-Mostowy explained this yesterday at the committee meeting that, specifically, in agreement with the Ministry, we took this as a paid tourist service, which could also be a situation concerning an agrotourism farm. So then these funds will go to other Polish families, which are not necessarily e.g. They're hiring employees. That is, in connection with this form of family, household or individual activity 'Cause it can happen in different formulas. This support will be provided, but it will also remain in the territory of the Republic of Poland. So I'm convinced and I can say that so in very general respect it will be Because the scale of these measures indicates this. - thousands of operators who will benefit from these measures. I think perhaps the Minister will be able to supplement that. But as for such a detailed estimate, it's... In my opinion, this is a difficult task to answer more precisely to the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. And you ask Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u129	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the Minister, as the representative of the applicant, about the attitude towards a certain change, an amendment which I have tabled, which states that if the child of the entitled person had the right to provide education and an allowance on the date of entry into force of the Act, the provision of the Act shall apply to those persons also when, until 31 March 2022, the child has completed the eighteenth year of age. I'll make it short and simple. Well, if the child is 17 and 11 months old, a week before the law came into force Okay, I'll see you in a minute. He's turning 18, this family's only gonna have a week to take advantage of that gift. I'd like to ask you for a position, a saying, or an amendment. And I think that there is some technical oversight that such a provision would not be included in the Act, it would be recognised by you, by the representative of the applicant. In practice, it would allow parents of these children, who would end their 18th year of life immediately before the law entered into force, to benefit from a travel voucher until the end of the provisions of the Act, i.e. until 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u130	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u131	We would then, Mr Senator, in fact be dealing with such a situation that we would have a very wide range of subjects, the scope of the beneficiaries of this law. 'Cause turning it around... But without that, there's only a short time to use... You could say that we would go beyond the age of eighteen. That's when we're over the age of nineteen, we're in our early twenties... Well, it's a matter of the High Senate's decision, but there's always a time-seizure like this somewhere, and including the senator's proposal... And there's always a calendar for the last person to use the program. So the voucher is valid until 31 March 2022, this time-cezure has been clearly defined. And this week, that's it... Here maybe there's a question of understanding the recipe too. Because, Mr. Senator, if I'm the father of a child who's even 17 years old, 11 months and 30 days old, and the voucher is to be used by March 31, 2022, it's a matter of me using this voucher... That kid can use him. There's no receipt here, there's a service bought out, so it doesn't have to be that I'm using it today... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the question of enlargement... Let me put it this way: they were... I don't have a recipe in front of my eyes... But the Senate will consider it. I didn't see the senator's proposal in writing either. But they were also... The Bon doesn't expire, and there's no picking up the bonus. If you have acquired this right, you can use it. That's one thing. But if it's gonna lead to an extension of that bonus, then that means a 19-year-old or an older person... Well, here's the discussion. When we consulted the environment, including entrepreneurs, there were voices in order to dedicate this help to minors so that this help would be for children. The question is whether this is an accurate decision or not, yet there were such voices. So... the Bon doesn't expire, which means if you get the right to a bonus, it'll be possible to use it until the end of March 31st... And it is at the date of generating the voucher that these specified conditions must be fulfilled. So if these conditions are fulfilled after the entry into force of the Act, then all is well and can be used up to this indicated date. However, if the change proposed by the senator were to go beyond that, then it would be a question of assessing the effects of regulation, of further costs, of analysis, but also of deciding where we will set up these cesareas. It seems to me that this age-cure is quite rational, because it refers to an objective criterion, which is to gain maturity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u132	If you don't mind, I'll correct it because I probably misread it. This is not about extending the validity of this law, i.e. the inclusion of children who have completed their 18th year of age by 31 March 2022, on the contrary It is only about children who have this age at the time of the law's entry into force... It's okay. ...and the law shall apply to those persons until 31 March. What is it? So they don't have to spend that money fast... They don't have to. In my opinion, the design of the recipe is so... They don't have to. Then there's no dispute for me. They don't have to, because how... The intention of the State is that, if the child meets the formal requirements, this money may be spent by 31 March 2022. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u133	The legal analysis carried out in the course of the discussion with the Office of Law and Government is as follows. You get a voucher, you don't get a voucher, you don't get a voucher, you don't get a voucher... The right to a voucher acquired on a given date may be exercised. At the date of generation, these conditions must be met. In the case you're talking about, the senator is satisfied. Like you said now, it is. That's how we formulated these rules so that we could understand them anyway. We'll consult with the legislators... Good. But I see there's no dispute between us. You have the same intention as... Same concept. At first, I didn't really understand the senator. I thought you were the senator. I'm sorry. He wants to expand... And that, of course, is debatable. But as far as those intentions were concerned, which you later expressed, in our opinion, they are in the bill. It's not that one day and I don't use it... the voucher expires. No. I have the opportunity to use it until the end of the first quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. That was the last question for the Minister. Thank you very much. Thank you for all your answers. Mr Ireneusz Raś was authorised to present the position of the Members of the Parliament's draft law. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, if the Member, as has been pointed out many times here, the lower chamber, did not want in the Senate It's the first time I've had that honor. To speak, especially on such an important point... Much has been said here, also in response to questions to Minister Paweł Fly and to the senators of the rapporteurs of the committee. I, presenting this print, which, in short, was talking about a tourist check, and I presented it before the vote... I'm sending you to this detailed, extensive presentation. I wouldn't want to take too much time with the senators here, and I'd be more inclined to answer questions. Today we have to answer the question, with this whole analysis of the situation... We must agree that this industry has been deeply affected by this situation and we do not know for ourselves I think Minister Mucha will agree, and I'm sure Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy will agree with that. And now there are 2 working philosophies. The philosophy we presented in May was consulted by parliamentary clubs... A project on a financial support instrument for households for the implementation of holiday plans in the years 2020 to 2022 in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic has been distributed and debated. We thought that we had to decide on a very offensive solution, which does not eliminate anyone in Poland and gives everyone the opportunity to use a holiday check or a voucher, so that we would not argue here. 500 zł. We consider, also after discussions with the industry I myself have been conducting these discussions for years, but in this recent period, in connection with this pandemic very intensively That only an offensive tool can have a pro-economic effect, not just an aid effect, at the moment. That's why we've spread it out for three years. That's our perspective. Because actually the financial effort was here, you could say, four times higher. But why did we dare, High Senate, to present such a bold instrument of support for this industry? Because the government has repeatedly since March, March and April... Prime Minister Emilewicz said that only this year the government wants to allocate 7 billion dollars to support this industry, sometimes even 9 billion PLN. The President's proposal today is therefore restrictive of this 1000+ proposal, which Prime Minister Emilewicz was talking about. And that's the first line. This shows that the rulers have kind of withdrawn from showing this determination which, as I thought, had to be demonstrated, as well as the Members of the Civic Coalition who signed the bill, I admit that my authorship. So what are the differences, not just the quotas? Because in the current debate, journalists, but also politicians often confuse this instrument and say it's a voucher. Or a holiday check. That's not what we should think if we want to talk about the industry. It is to be a cheque or tourist voucher, which is to be used not only during holiday periods, as already emphasized here. We know that there is a greater interest in Baltic resorts, that in this holiday there will certainly be more Polish tourists visiting Poland, i.e. Poles will spend more money in these tourist peaks. And this is a phenomenon that will occur at a point in July and August. But what happens in September? What will happen in October and November when the tourism industry does not have this simple holiday resource supply? And here I want to say that the senators, if the government doesn't want to approach us offensively and bet on such an element for everyone who would support family recreation, because after all, Dad, mom would go with children to Poland... After all, we know and the Minister responsible for tourism knows that in the balance sheet in 2018 and 2019 we had de facto about PLN 10 billion less, so less money from tourist holidays in Poland Here I look at the influences of foreign tourists and Polish tourists It is not the means that Polish tourists left abroad when they left there. Ten billion. This was what we had to fight for and dare to do, especially in this crisis situation. Well, speaking of such a proposal to add even pensioners, I'd like to say that it's at least... Well, if you'd agree to it here in the Senate. I think that Parliament would accept this, i.e. The lower chamber is a way to save the situation when it is a lower interest in tourism in Poland. It's just that retired people have time and they can take their grandson and go somewhere for less money when there's no dictation of such high prices. It's natural that they're so-called. tourist peaks, when it is more expensive, and autumn months are cheaper than holiday ones. It is about such a conversation in the Polish Parliament about tourism. And I encourage this conversation with my parliamentary club. I ignore the current issues of the presidential election, which kind of triggers a fever during this debate in the Senate. It looks more elegant than in the Sejm, I'll be honest; I envy the senators. So it's about quality. That kind of help would be more appropriate to me. Minister Mucha said that it was not prepared for the scale of needs if pensioners and pensioners were taken into account in this Polish Tourist Bona. Because it's not about the name, it's about quality and the scale of needs. And I will also agree with this element, because right here is the same argument to promote Polish tourism for a Polish tourist, whom they ask so much in the West. We too should pursue and this instrument should do this effectively than just behind the child. But given the number of pensioners... All you have to do is reach for that information. I think it would have to be real... After all, not every pensioner and pensioner is physically able to benefit from this. That would cost, High Senate, within 4 billion, maybe a little over 4 billion would have to be added. We'd have to double the amount. But please note that even the Polish Tourist Bon is distributed for 3 years, which means you can spread it out in a nice way, the more that I'm going back to what Prime Minister Emilevich said. This year only 7 billion are available for this instrument, i.e. within the reach of the Polish parliament and the Polish government. These are the issues that I would like to say to you, as was the result of this conversation. And to my colleague, Senator Czarnobaj, I will say that I will defend a certain idea, which Mr Mucha has also included and which is in this proposal. In my opinion, a check or a bon must, so to speak, follow a party that involves a stay, which is to stay away from the place of residence. And you can combine with this other tourist service or other tourist event, i.e. sailing by boat or ordering yourself through tourist offices as part of this money attractions in the form of a theatre performance or visiting the museum. It's all in these proposals that I think it's nicely written, and it has to be so that it works effectively. After all, it is not just about pumping money into this industry that we want, but it is about stimulating the economy, because only then does it make sense. This philosophy coincides with that of ours, when we speak of the check, and I even think that the president's proposal took our records into account. Because in May, when we presented this parliamentary project, we absolutely did not agree with the philosophy of this 1000+, because it was an absolutely unacceptable project from an economic point of view, socially unequal, unattractive and helpfully, and pro-economically. The only charge I have is this... Of course, this money is marked, this 500 PLN per child, and will go to the tourism industry, will have some impact, so my parliamentary club supported this project, even though our proposals were not taken into account in the course of the work. Well, that's the law of the rulers, they have the majority, and they don't have to deal with any opposition force, even though in opposition we have led to a pretty big consensus. Because if this project was supported by Mr. Braun in the Seym, then I did some work to explain some nuances. However, I believe that, in general, this project, which, of course, goes on the 500+ path, is actually the thirteenth benefit of 500+, only directed towards tourism. Will this bon be so pro-economic? It won't. He will help families And that's what we're taking into account. In difficult times, reduce spending on organized recreation for children and young people. Will it benefit companies, maybe not companies, but non-governmental organisations that organize holiday trips during peak periods? Yes. So are large resources generated for additional tourism services that are not on this invoice? No. Therefore, I believe that this is the construction of a mechanism that will have to be repeated. In our project we also assumed that every year the Polish Parliament, the Sejm It would be best if the Sejm and the Senate were to analyse the operation of this instrument, wondering how to improve it, so that it would serve the Polish economy well. 'Cause that's still my chance. And I hope that these 10 billion minus balances before the pandemic I've told you about, we're capable of overcoming. Like I said, our tourist is fighting the whole world, but we have to fight for ours for the first time. In my opinion, this proposal of the President ad hoc is a proposal which will only partially affect the Polish economy and will be more part of the support of the family. Thank you... If there are questions, I can answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. At present, senators may submit from a place of no more than a minute's duration a request to the authorised representative of applicants, Mr Ireneusz Breś, relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Szejnfeld was the first to report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u137	I would like to raise just one point, because I would not want this initiative to be blurred by the discussion from the beginning about genesis and who is more right here. I agree that the proposal that Mr Raś was talking about would be much better than the government-president, much more beneficial and effective. But he would only like to raise such a question, namely the difference between the views of Mr Blackobay and Senator Czarnobaj. I am here on senator czarnobaj's side because you, mr. I understand that you... Besides, as I know you, I am also talking about dealing with tourism issues from this point of view. I know that, and I understand that you mean the tourism industry. I, as an economic man, have been treating tourism as an industrial sector for the past 30 years. And when you talk about tourism as a sector of industry, I can understand that you mean that services should be tied up so that it could be at least 1 night and so on. But I understand and read, also from the words of Minister Fly, it appears that this law primarily has a social purpose, not an economic purpose. It's also economical, of course, but it's a side effect, so to speak. It is good that it has, but above all it has a social purpose, it has to support the holidays for children, in other words, it has to support families with children, which I criticized, because families without children should also get support, that's what I said about pensioners. If this bill is to support families, people, there should be no such narrowing. You, Mr President, know very well, probably better than I do, that the absolute, overwhelming majority of people in Poland enjoy vacations, holidays, holidays, holidays etc. without a travel agent. You get in a car, on a train, on anything and you drive. The only thing that I'm sure will be able to use when it comes to this bill is accommodation services. But a cinema, a theatre, a museum, a boat cruise in the Baltic Sea or something. After the Great Loop of Wielkopolska, etc. Everyone buys themselves out. Therefore, if we narrow it down as you do, as I understand it, recognizes, and the President proposes, it is a huge crowd of people in Poland. million, millions of Polish families The Polish tourism business will not be able to benefit from the full offer offered by Polish tourism in the course of the use of the tourist voucher, because they will not catch themselves, in colloquially speaking, under the wording of the article. 5. I therefore make an amendment which will not undermine, Mr President, your idea, but will give you a better chance to implement the idea of the President, namely to support Polish families and their children. And since this is the formula of questions, I would like to ask: do you think this is wrong thinking, i.e. the one I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u138	Mr. Senator, you are... I don't want to undermine your competence. Your view of the matter is very broad. In this analysis with the industry we thought that... Well, when you go somewhere and order a accommodation service at a hotel or at a campsite with a Polish entrepreneur, according to our concept you could order somewhere near another service connected not only by tourist offices. On the one hand, we, when introducing tourist offices, wanted to guarantee a better, wider offer. Polish tourist offices, we believe, could sell more and better for Poland, which is in our interest. And our proposal would give us a chance. On the other hand, however, this check would say that it would also be possible, by ordering a direct stay in a given hotel, to stay with a hoteler, for example. rafting with Dunajc or any other service, sailing by boat or anything else, which would involve a tourist and his family staying in a given place. What you're saying doesn't argue with what I'm saying, but it would have to be clarified to make it clear. The amendment is an amendment to the Senate. We won't argue with her.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u139	Thank you very much. Next question. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Rasi, Mr Rasi, because you have made me aware of something. Today, of course, we are discussing a bill that supports families with children in the context of these trips with limited financial resources, but, of course, we are also creating a system of support for an extremely important area of economic life, i.e. tourism. What you said was that the holiday period de facto favors a certain part of the tourism industry, which is probably mostly about going to the sea... I'd like to ask you something. He spoke about some of the conclusions you have drawn at the level of Parliamentary work in the context of more precise information on the implementation of the programme. Would you be able to develop this and say what, if any, elements of this scope, which are not related to any costs, have not been included in the project? Because one might consider whether we should join them in the Senate yet. I'm not asking by accident. I realize, of course, that any position of the accent on the fact that this voucher can be used in the long term... Although it is formally recorded, in such an external dimension it functions as a holiday voucher, and these holiday trips, as statistics show, actually relate mainly to, in the largest part, trips to the sea. Did you have a program in this area? Because the needs of the tourism industry are of course not just the needs of seaside resorts and guesthouses, but the needs of resorts located throughout the country. Is the committee whose work you're running... Did you have any thoughts in this regard, any conclusions that were not finally included in the bill, and which might be some hope for something? If not for a fairer distribution of funds between infrastructure and entrepreneurs in the sports and tourism industry, the beneficiary who receives these funds will decide on this. At least an analysis of the impact of this instrument on the tourism sector in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u141	I think as for the result of this analysis, Senator, we have to wait. I don't think anybody's gonna be here in this courtroom brave, neither the requesting party, the president, nor me, nor the minister responsible for tourism. To tell you what the outcome will be. You can always say it's positive. But first of all, Mr. Senator, I'd like to say one thing. Which, in my opinion, is not included in this presidential proposal... They rejected our philosophy. The Group's proposal was to promote family recreation. So we said that there should be as many providers as possible on this list of entrepreneurs in POT who provide accommodation services. That's from small camping to spa hotels. They were all treated by the pandemic in a clear and devastating way. And I just thought that the modeling of a voucher or a check that would encourage a family trip, one that is most often carried out outside our country by tourist offices, would have pro-economic value, would provide additional money. If I'm going to Crete, I'm still taking a lot of euros and with my family, with my children, with my loved ones, I'm doing other things, I'm supporting tourism in Crete. We also thought that if we build a model in Poland But we will not limit ourselves to this model, but it will be preferred, and this check would be preferred The effects on the economy will be fantastic. But there is no philosophy that I presented in Parliament. And I was supported by my group to join with this philosophy that the President is presenting. Because it is clear from the philosophy of the President that Polish Tourist Bon in a great percentage will be a write-off from the costs of the colony or holiday camp, winter or summer. And I can bet on that with the Minister or with President Duda that, if we sum things up, we'll see that the flow of funds from this voucher will have that character. And that makes, first of all, what we wanted to do... we're not going to get this effect of the maximum economic threshold. And secondly, we will not support the integration of the Polish family And that's what we wanted, too. And also build... Maybe we'll laugh that today we talk a lot about patriotism. But from the perspective of analyses and various tourist conferences, which for years as the head of the committee in the Sejm responsible for tourism, I can say that Poles very little know their country and therefore their history. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u142	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have followed the initiative of you, Mr President, and I have been with it since the very beginning, because I see great rationality here. Senator Szejnfeld and I have made a proposal that I hope all the senators will bend over because I think that's a logical proposition. But my question goes in the following direction. I had nothing in common with the industry mentioned here, but I was an entrepreneur for 27 years and I know perfectly well how hard it is and how companies get up off their knees. All I can say is, knowing a little bit of this industry, that all the other industries are going to help each other a long time, because the way out of this crisis... Each industry will reach its pre-COVID-19 level sooner or later. However, it is known that the tourism industry will be up from its knees for a long time. We are not saying anything here, but you probably know, Mr President, how indebted this industry is, what loans have been taken for its development. These are dramatic situations. Could you please ask the question of whether the extra four billion you've calculated in some way... As we said at the committee meeting with Minister Mucha, we need to combine good with useful. Are those four billion... There are pensioners and pensioners who are happy because they can benefit from it. How much, in your opinion, would the industry gain economically in this dramatic situation? Thank you very much. This amendment... May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u144	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u145	This amendment would absolutely improve the presidential proposal and constitute... Indeed, seniors will choose periods in which there are no peaks, which are such a worse time for Polish tourism. We expect it to be months: September, October, November. They're gonna decide, so to speak, how many businesses, hotels, campings will survive this year. And in these months such activity of the Polish senior, even with children I say with a smile, it would be fantastic. Then Grandma, Grandpa could go away with the kids and combine the resources. This will be an absolutely better situation for them. It will also be better for Polish entrepreneurs, for the industry and for the Polish economy, and that is what this is all about. Absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u146	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'm gonna start with the question, and then there's a reason. I would like to ask you if you understand the philosophy of the. you have said about the different philosophies of the amendment that I am making together with Senator Szejnfeld. I'll tell you why I'm asking you this. You present such philosophy that here I, as the beneficiary of the voucher, am to order myself a service, preferably in its entirety, and take advantage of everything that the organizer of my stay offers. So when I order a hotel, it's best that I order a visit here and visit there. He's gonna set this up for me, and I'm gonna pay him off and use it. And my philosophy, as making this amendment, is this: I buy for a voucher a tourist accommodation in a given village and I want to use various types of services, not necessarily through an intermediary. I understand that you're in favour of a middleman doing everything for me. You know... I'm just finishing up this line right now. Here, in fact, is that, so to speak, ambiguity in the field of philosophy. Here's my question. Do you understand our philosophy? Because you're suggesting... You're a young man, maybe you don't remember. Once, when you came to the traffic newsstand and wanted to buy a friend... You know what else you had to buy? The People's Tribune. And you want to do the same. If I go to the Hel Peninsula and I want to go on a boat, somebody's gonna have to get it for me. Do you understand that we are talking about giving people free will to spend the money that we give under this law? There's a difference in philosophy. That's why I'm asking, do you understand our philosophy? We may be different, but I'd like you to tell me if you understand the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u148	It is, High Senate, this beautiful condition that in the Senate there can be a dispute between clubmates in the presence of representatives of other clubs and representatives of the president and government. I, Mr. Senator, will say yes. You can't imagine everything a Polish tourist might want. Tourism is interdisciplinary, it accumulates many activities. Of course, it could be left to the public... You could do what you say, which means you're the one who decides everything, gives you freedom, but I don't know if that's possible. You have little faith. I don't know if that's possible. I wish you could... Just pay attention to the fact that always in our project, just like in the president's project... Well, a given company providing tourist services would have to be on the list in the application of the Polish Tourist Organization. Do you understand that? So that's like, uh... You're going on a raft in Szczecin and on a Dunajec raft in Szczecin. The Flyers of Krostenka, 100%, because I know them, will be on that list, but the one who has that one boat in Szczecin won't be there. That's the problem. However, you can order this boat in Szczecin via the hotel. You have a free choice, and you say, "I want you to do it through an invoice, in a hotel." Your receptionist, because the hotel is in this POT application, calling, ordering, typing, describing, you account for it. I in a practical way, given my experience, but also the experiences of people who ate their teeth on tourism, I say... I do not mean to argue with my club colleagues in the beautiful Senate plenary room, but I believe that what you are talking about can be achieved within both what the Parliamentary Coalition proposed and what the government is proposing today. I think it can be realized. But please make an amendment, because I will think about it myself, I will accept it, and I will have an additional incentive to consult on it until the vote in the Sejm. There is nothing to prevent this amendment from being tabled and accepted. We'll be smarter, even in 24 hours, in 48 hours... Many people are watching us, probably in a moment those experienced, those from tourism will write emails, which is also very good and useful to me. One sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u149	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u150	Mr. President, after your speech... If I were a member of the Law and Justice, I would vote against this amendment. Yeah, but you deserve it, and it's hard...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u151	I wanted a substantive debate, and I didn't get one in the Seym. And in the Senate... You've received a lesson that you can. But we won't be angry, Senator. Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u152	I'm tempted to put part of this hashtag debate on social media: don't argue! No, this is different. It wasn't a fight. Of course I'm kidding. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Members, I have a question for you. In accordance with the bill submitted to us from this travel voucher proposed by your President, will all children actually be able to benefit? Will this bonus be available to children taking part in summer holidays in the city organized by various entities? It is often the case that children Not of all families, of course. They cannot go on vacation by the sea or in the mountains, because such holidays are extremely expensive, and there are other reasons. They take advantage of the offer organized by environmental fireplaces, non-governmental organisations, other operators offering summer in the city. Will these children, these families, be able to use this bon?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u154	That's probably a question for the Minister of Tourism. I understand that all children who have 500+ benefits in Poland will be able to benefit from a tourist voucher. I understand that the intention of those who submitted... My intention and intention of the rulers today was that this voucher or check should, however, involve a holiday trip rather than a stay on the spot. Although I believe that this is a big problem, especially during this period. Here support for this type of activity, especially for local governments, because local governments through cultural houses organize the summer in the city or the summer in the municipality... The idea is for the government to think of additional resources so that local governments don't save money during their vacation period. It doesn't cost much, and for the mental health of families and children who may not be able to go on vacation... This is an important problem. You're touching the senator on an important problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u155	Thank you very much. There are no more questions for the Member. Thank you. Thank you. Yet... Mr Senator, as usual, you can't see from here, because you're blocking it. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Because you kind of started a discussion on your project, I reached into the reserves. And I see that this project actually has three pages, and if you compare it to the end result, 19 pages, you can see that it's rather mute, so I'd call it. But maybe not in volume, but in content. There is really nothing about the procedure in this project, and in such cases, in the case of transfers of public money, procedures are the most important. Everything is remote or passed on by delegation to the Minister responsible for tourism, who has practically everything to say about your project, to define the procedural issues. Tell me: is this the right way to build legislation? Isn't it so that your project was simply not applicable? As I said, most acts related, according to you, to the distribution of money, and in our view, support for the tourism industry should be laid down in the Act, in the act of the highest government outside the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u157	Mr. Senator! High Senate! I want to say yes. Please note that the submission that was discussed earlier is a presidential, but de facto government, and this is a parliamentary submission. We don't have that camera, Senator. I really encourage you in your area of action, as a senator without the help of the government, to outline to all government institutions what to do, with the intention you want, and you have a well-prepared and well-founded intention. You're not gonna do that. We, in our own grace, did not want to impose certain detailed solutions, which only the government could carry out. I am not talking here about draft parliamentary laws that are de facto coming down from the government, because we have seen them over the years and we see them again and again. This is a project written by Members and he could not contain certain detailed records, but, as you can see, he did not go far with those solutions which you adopted as regards philosophy. So that here I absolutely do not accept this criticism. According to such a philosophy, Members could not submit to the High House any draft law, because they do not have any office in Parliament in the back office such as the government. I believe that what you are saying is a reduction in the work of Members in the Polish Parliament at all. You criticize me for my intentions, and you criticize me for my philosophy, that's what we'll be able to talk about at any stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u158	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, Marshal, an additional question... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u159	...Constatation, actually. Even here in the Senate, the opposition senators present projects that are very extensive, and I assure you they do not use the services of the Legislative Office. And going back to the point, I'm going to say yes. Intentions, philosophy, beautifully, but laws are not intentions, philosophy, these are mainly procedures. And here's the question: why didn't you do what a parliamentarians should do, i.e. You didn't file a complete bill, you just presented what you'd like to do?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u160	I don't agree with you. There's a government from the procedure. There's an ex-President of the Supreme Board of Control who could explain it to you in the cockroaches. Good legislation is required of parliamentarians, i.e. good justification, the presentation of Parliament's intentions and proposals, if Parliament proposes any solutions, and here Parliament has proposed cooperation with the rulers by referring to acts that the government should match to this intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u162	Mr Marshal, is this about submitting Mr Raś or about submitting the President's Chancellery? It's about the presidential presentation, of course. This is the main topic of today's debate. Of course, that's an explanation. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Of course, we fully support the submission of the President. We believe that in recent weeks, months, as has been repeated many times, the tourism industry has been severely affected by the Coronavirus epidemic. Of course, earlier appeared in public space, as part of some declarations, various concepts of support for the tourism industry. There was also a question of a tourist voucher, which functions de facto in several European countries, which is... Minister, I'm very sorry, sir, but there's a problem with the microphone, you can't hear very well. Wouldn't the Minister like to come to the stand? One, two... And now? I think that's better. There was a very big reverb. My speech will be very short. We fully support the presentation of the President. We believe that this is a very valuable act in the social sense. Apart from family integration and big social values... She gives a lot of motivation to travel around the country. Of course, the Ministry of Development, which directly supervises the tourism sector, wants to support this project with many promotional activities together with the Polish Tourism Organization. We'll encourage you to travel around the country. At the working stage, of course, we served our advice to the President's Chancellery and the President. We believe that it is a law of fundamental importance for Polish tourism, a completely new law, which we hope will permanently enter into the landscape of Polish economic, tourist and family life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kwiatkowski is the first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Following the suggestion made by the rapporteur, the question which I had previously asked him, I am addressing the representative of the government. Is the Minister able to tell me how this group of children will be financed and organized for their holidays, which are under the care of institutional institutions of the state, i.e. children's homes, shelters for minors, correction centres or youth educational centres? That's the first question. Second question. I am directing both of you to Minister Gut-bridge. I know it's hard to find a person who has more knowledge of tourism in mountain or mountain areas. I have a question for the Minister. Do you, as a government, plan an information campaign that will pay particular attention to how long this voucher can be implemented? 'Cause it's like this. It shows all the tests. The vast majority of us use it almost immediately when we receive a benefit, a financial benefit equivalent. In view of the time during which these provisions will enter into force, vouchers will probably be used especially during the holiday period. Statistics show that this time of year most trips are seaside trips. Are you therefore planning an information campaign so that some part of this funding can be used, for example. during the winter break period and could go to entrepreneurs from the tourism industry in the south of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u165	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! Of course, all children who are covered by the 500+ programme are beneficiaries of this tourist voucher, including those from care establishments, from children's homes. The construction is that the director of a given facility will be able to provide funds and arrange a given trip. Of course, on the assumption that outside these care facilities there are no people who would be entitled to have... As far as information is concerned, of course, the Ministry of Development fully supports Mr President's project. We will involve all tourist institutions, through the Polish Tourism Organization and regional tourism organisations, in promoting trips to the country. But, as we understand, the intention of the Polish President's Office was not to interfere with certain consumer preferences of Poles. Therefore, this voucher is so constructed that its beneficiary has a complete choice as to the time and place of use of the voucher. Of course, there's a restriction that on the domestic market... And two words explaining earlier discussions regarding the inclusion of certain additional services accompanying tourism, whether in culture or in transport. I would like to give an example of a tourist voucher in Hungary, where the proportions in which the tourist voucher may be spent have been precisely established. And, so orientally, e.g. 50% is for the accommodation service, approx. 30% for the catering service and approx. 20% for the transport service. I give this as an example, because there also the legislator wanted to direct funds precisely to the tourism industry. He wanted to make sure that the measures involved would go to the tourism industry in accordance with his will. Of course, we know that there may sometimes be additional services, accompanying services, outside of this scope, but the primary objective is to precisely direct these funds to the tourism industry, not to cause, as I say, a leakage of these funds outside the tourism industry. This ensures that the entire project is evaluated positively and has its effectiveness. And that must have been the intention of the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u167	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you a question which I have already asked, which I have also asked the rapporteur of the Committee on the National Economy and which we have already discussed here many times. This case also appeared in my conversation with the Minister. This is about the allocation of funds from the Social Fund. Well, this social fund can today also be spent on services provided for foreign tourism. If you decide to go back to writing At least at the time when the tourist industry is in a difficult situation That these funds could only be spent in the country... Because the social fund is in this specific situation that it is affected by state aid, because it is tax-free, etc. Have you considered in the Ministry that this record might be restored? At least in time for a difficult situation in the tourism industry. That's the first question. The second question is... Because entities that will be entitled to use it on the side of tourist entrepreneurs will be entities registered with the Polish Tourist Organization. There's a thing here too... There's nothing wrong with that, but more and more often with our laws, we make records that everyone has to be centrally registered somewhere. Earlier, the rural hostess' circles would receive a grant if they were registered at KOWR, etc. So we're still sort of adding to this area of cases where there has to be full information about what's going on and who's working downstairs so that in Warsaw, so to speak, in short, they know who's going on and so on. I'm not against that kind of information, but this system of records, information, etc... Well, he's already getting so nuisance, too. I'm not saying that even such a dubious... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u169	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Of course, the intention to correct the share-based social funds so that their funds can only be used on the domestic market seems right to us, but of course we would not want to enter into the matter of the President's Office and the President's Office and join it in a sudden manner to this act. I promise you, we can certainly lean forward on this subject in the near future. This seems appropriate to raise other rules on tourism when changing. The idea is that, in fact, the wage-based social funds must be used in a national tourist base. We think these intentions are right, and I say this on my own behalf. As far as the next topic is concerned, of course all tourist facilities should be registered in the database of the Polish Tourist Organization. And it's going to happen from a vending machine at the level of an IT system. No procedures or additional requirements will need to be met. Each hotel facility can register automatically in this IT system. In turn registration will be consent to certain control activities by the Polish Tourist Organization. Mr. Senator, once again, I'd like to return to my primary goal. We want this programme not to become a means for certain market abuse. As we know, the invention is not only Poles 'Cause all entrepreneurs can be very rich. If we don't want to devalue this program, we want it to be considered a valuable program, we want the targeted measures to go to the tourism industry. And hoping that this program will stay forever... it's very, very important that the measures go to the tourism industry precisely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u171	Please, Mr. Senator, if you... Is anyone in line? There it is. Do you have another question? Then I'll write you down. One question. Everyone's gonna make it. The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u172	Minister, I am asking you a question because Minister Mucha suggested that you be competent to answer my question. So, Minister, on what legal basis are Prime Minister Morawiecki and some Members of Law and Justice now driving around Poland and handing out promenes in connection with the bill we are proceeding? This procession has not been completed. The bill's still going to the Sejm, so it's not the law. Can you tell us on what legal basis these proms are being handed over? And shouldn't we call the competent authorities? How about the D.A.'s office? How can public money be distributed without a legal basis? Can the Minister answer that question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u173	Dear Senator, High Senate! Of course, I am not a government advocate and I have no legal basis or authority to act on behalf of the government, but I can say that, in my opinion, the announcement of certain legal acts or the announcement of having certain legal means is as appropriate as possible. Self-governments are at such a time that they have to plan certain actions. We're having a really hard time. Even if there is an announcement of certain legislative measures and actions, it is not necessary to read it as an expression of bad will. Even if you have some doubts about me, please note that we are living in very difficult times and quick action and that, so to speak, rapid investment resources are very much needed by local governments,
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u174	I'll just ask, if you don't mind, as part of an ad vocem. As time is difficult... But does that entitle government officials to break the law? I'm asking the question again. Promesses are handed out, promesses are handed out to the public, on which specific amounts are given. But isn't that the minister's view of breaking the law? Because it's giving something without any legal basis. That money's gone. So... You represent here the ministry that this money will share. I can see right now that there's an entire algorithm on the ministry's pages. The right notabene, because no one questions the fact that local governments are waiting for this money. But, Minister, let me ask you one more time: can we at least promise money that has not yet passed the procedure? And if Once again... you're explaining the difficult situation. But the money's not here yet. Answer me the question: can you promise that this money somehow... Can I present it in a symbolic form? Here's something in the form of cheques, when there's no legal basis, when there's no money in the state budget? I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u175	Of course, Mr. Senator, I'm already giving you a specific answer. In my opinion, it is not only possible, but actually the need for a moment. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u176	Thank you very much. Senator Swede, are you still...? O.R. 217. O.R. 217. There you go. I don't think he's... Are you Senator Alexander Swed? There isn't. There isn't? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the application of this law. She will be able to be effectively used when the tourism minister states that there are already functionalities available for registration in the electronic system and activation of the voucher, and they will probably be available when the IT system is properly adapted, i.e. the system that will run the ZUS, in accordance with the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. And here's the question: do you have any idea how long this is going to take? Because the point is to make it easier for us or even Poles to plan their vacations. When will this bonus actually be used? Whether data transmission will require e.g. building new databases, or just passing on data from those already existing ones? How will this work in practice? How long do we have to wait for the bill to enter into force in a real way?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u178	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! Of course, the entire project concerning the Polish Tourist Bonus, which is very socially and economically valuable, is a huge organizational project. Let us remind you that it will cover about a few million children, several tens of thousands of entities that will provide these services... The creation of all these databases and the ICT system, which will also carry out the billing, is very complicated. Of course, we served the President's Office with some advice and information as far as possible... In our opinion, ok. Three, four weeks is the time when the relevant institutions will be able to start implementing this voucher. Of course, we cannot give hard and concrete dates, which is why the law provides for such a formula that the Minister responsible will announce the beginning of the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u180	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, we are discussing that the Polish Tourist Bon program means, in addition to the social aspect, specific support for the tourism industry. The questions were raised earlier when I presented a report on the meeting of the Economic Committee on general support for the tourism industry at the time of economic slowdown. We know that the tourism industry has suffered a great deal. Could you, with such in-depth knowledge as the Deputy Minister of Development, tell us what further support could the tourism industry benefit from? What are the amounts? In what part are they compensating for the losses suffered by the industry as a result of the outbreak of Coronavirus and the economic downturn? I ask for this information because it seems to me that mine was not quite accurate, and many such questions appeared, as well as allegations that it is support for the tourism industry, but far insufficient. So I would like to hear these words, that this is not the only support that the Polish state has prepared, which the Polish government has prepared in cooperation with Mr President for the tourism industry, for this area of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u182	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! High Izbo! Of course, the tourism industry is not a specific element in our economy and, as many other sectors, has been affected by this difficult situation. All these programmes of economic support under individual targets concerned the entire economic sector. But weigh that, for example. There are certain criteria for the Financial Shield... the basic criterion was the decline in turnover and the number of employees. This was largely intended for the tourism industry and a 50% or 75% decrease in turnover which gave rise to strong support from the Financial Shield, was used as much as possible by this industry. We have statistics from a few days ago and certainly at least PLN 4 billion from the Financial Shield... several thousand companies are entities in the tourism industry that have received support from the Financial Shield. Of course, other instruments, i.e. parking benefits, exemptions from the Social Security Office, also entered the tourism industry. What's important? The fact that additional instruments are being prepared at the moment, as the earlier ones, apart from typically financial support, can be said to be legislative support, is that e.g. We have protected the tourism industry from the wave of bankruptcy and bankruptcy, and we have created a recipe that allowed for 180 days of all cancellations of travel trips, but also for receipt of vouchers... All this has caused that generally the tourism industry has not been subjected to great psychological and economic pressures and waves of such extremely unnecessary situations. In the coming days we also have a meeting with most of the tourism industry. Further solutions are envisaged, which can be said Already in the coming weeks, this industry will have a sense of economic support, but also psychological support, a sense that all difficult moments will be supported by financial action. Of course, I could talk about all forms of support for the tourism industry here, but it would take a long time. I invite you to the website of the Ministry of Development, Department of Tourism, there are listed all activities for the tourism industry that have been taken. I think that a synthetic image and Polish economy, and Polish tourism, is that unemployment has not increased to an extraordinary size, as it was still projected in the spring, to 9-10%. This unemployment, which we currently have in Poland, is at a decent level. If we compare them with unemployment in Western European countries and especially in the United States, we will see that the Polish economy has gone through the crisis with a dry leg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u184	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd still like to... More? Would you please, Senator? Yes, you can. Minister, I would like to address this issue again, although of course it is not directly related to this law. We are talking about the whole industry, and yet not the whole tourism industry has been helped. Some groups of tourists have been left out for various reasons. These are e.g. Guides or some pilots who otherwise carried on an economic activity. We continued to strive for them to be embraced as well. Is there any action to make this group And this is a huge number of people all over the country. Is it possible for her to benefit from this support? On this occasion I would also like to draw attention to this And that, too, is a question. That a large proportion of these shield-related security features expire in June. I mean, for example. issues related to the CSO. Are you predicting what will happen, how will all the protective measures planned for March, April and May end, or, in the case of this particular industry, May, April and June end? Of course, it can be assumed that July and August are better months for the tourism industry, but probably not in every category. We know that some objects have many customers, but some have constant problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u186	Mr Senator, when it comes to the parking of such economic activities, especially for tour pilots, we are obviously preparing such solutions. In the coming days, and in particular tomorrow, this will be presented at a meeting with the industry. As far as I'm concerned, we've got a proposal to do the same. Tomorrow this will be formally presented. The tourism industry will have the opportunity to extend the ZUS exemption for the next months, so that, Mr. Senator, I can say that the Ministry of Development reads your thoughts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u187	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u188	Minister, I'll fill in the question you asked Senator Blanket. Do you, as Ministry, have information, data on... Because on the one hand, the Minister informed And your marshal, Senator Blanket, was talking about it, too. What kind of help has come to the industry? And I'm talking about the other side. Do you have any estimate of what amount or money pool did not reach the revenue industry? 'Cause if you're saying that support is big, then I'm interested in what it means to be big. From the point of view of absolute numbers it is probably large, but in the context of the losses suffered by the industry it may be, suppose, medium or insufficient. If you have such knowledge, I ask the Minister to give it to us. That's the first question. The second question, Minister, is what you asked Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. Well, as a representative of the government... I, for the record, do not question the purpose of helping local governments. I'll even say that this amount is too small, that if it were bigger, it would be even better. I'm saying this as a long-term self-government officer. But please explain to us what is the connection between the tourist voucher and the support for investment in local governments. That's the first line. The second point is related to this too. Minister, let me ask you a question in the spirit of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's speech. Don't tell us this is important, good, useful. We understand that. We support that. Tell me how... I'm not gonna read it because I'm sure the Minister knows it, and if he doesn't, he can read it himself. I have just read what the word "promesa" means, in short, it is a promise. and the legal consequences, especially as regards the preparatory work of local authorities. Well, it's not like the Minister, the Prime Minister, or anybody in the government, says he's giving $4.5 million, someone's wondering, "Oh, let's wait, 'cause they're still sitting in the Senate." If the Prime Minister's giving, we're on. What does it look like from the government's point of view? I would like the government to be involved in the process of increasing investment in local governments, but in such a way that it is legal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u189	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u190	Senator, I'm gonna start with this last question because it's very intriguing. Allow me to support the knowledge of Mr Dominik Wasiluk, director of the relevant department, who will address this situation in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u191	Thank you. À by way of a proposal I'm gonna speak as a clerk right now. I feel that this action was very necessary and shows the professional approach of administration. I think we lack such proper communication about the top-down solutions we are preparing. A solution has emerged in the project, which provides that the Council of Ministers will allocate funds to local government units for investments. We can expect that such an announcement, such an announcement will generate a lot of speculation, may also trigger some unnecessary caroling, convincing, which municipality or which county needs the money more. I personally believe that such an announcement and a clear declaration to whom these measures will reach, based on an objective algorithm that defends itself Information on who gets how much At the beginning of the legislative process, it was a good and necessary solution. Maybe in this relationship... the senator was kind enough to ask a question about the relationship between this regulation and the project. As Minister Mucha said, the subject of the Polish Tourist Bone Act is to determine how certain funds are spent from the COVID counter fund. These funds will be spent on Polish Tourist Bon, but will also be spent on helping local governments. So this relationship is definitely happening. I would also like to point out that the provision of the article. Paragraph 43 (1) is of a more precise nature. This isn't a novel. This regulation is, as I said, purely clear. Here's another thing. She was reported at a fairly early stage of the legislative process while working in committees after first reading... Thus, the scope of the proposed amendments is much broader than those in later stages. It seems to me that a valuable remark is that, from our analysis, the Constitutional Tribunal has never decided to repeal the project on the basis of a formal condition, and this is what we are talking about in the event of doubts from the Legislative Office. The Legislative Office clearly stressed at committee meetings that the material conditions were not visible. So here it seems that... once the voting stage has reached, I will have a request to the Chamber, which is rightly called the Chamber of Reflection, so that this amendment, which provides for the deletion of the article. 42 and Article 42 43 reject during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u192	I will answer the first question of the senator in terms of estimated losses or losses in turnover across the tourism industry, so to speak. Of course, it is very difficult to determine, there are amounts of several or several billion zlotys, and it is absolutely right. But we must realise that there has been a change in the structure of the economy at all. I know that tourism will not return to the pre-pandemic level of turnover, that there has been a lower tendency to consumer expenditure • not only for tourism but also for many other industries. There's been a change in lifestyle, a change in business style. Office space due to the reorganization of many companies, has a different level of coverage. So that there have been changes in the economy in many different sectors. Of course, the tourism industry survived the hell out of all this support in the form of shields. However, we must be prepared that there will also be changes in the structure of tourism. Our intention is to make as many companies from the tourism industry as possible, among others. hotel facilities, accommodation facilities, could survive this difficult time, but also so that travel agencies, those mostly engaged in away tourism, survived this time, because we know that this is an important element of the entire tourist market. The Proceded Act on the Polish Tourist Bone is one of the elements of support for the tourism industry. We also want to stimulate national tourism. We appreciate that the whole project, as far as intentions are concerned, has been positively assessed by the Sejm. And, of course, recognising the Senate's right to many different comments and amendments, we also ask that we appreciate the whole intention of the President's bill. I'm still...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u193	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u194	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal... Minister, we appreciate, once again, that we appreciate and support what concerns the tourist voucher as an idea. We are discussing some elements that we believe could improve this law, and we hope that it will be improved. And I, of course. I will also urge my colleagues to think deeply about whether or not to withdraw the amendment on the deletion of the article at all. 42 and 43, if I remember correctly. I hope this happens, that's my personal opinion. One sentence, Mr. Director. I'm sorry, we don't understand each other a bit when it comes to the level of conversation. Because to add fractions, you have to bring them into the common denominator, and to talk about the same thing, you have to make the same definition. I'm not saying it's wrong when it comes to supporting investments and everything you've said. Please understand what the problem is. The fact that a representative of the government, the minister, the director of the department or the prime minister himself It discusses with corporations about terms, criteria, even a list of... Only the Prime Minister of the responsible government says this: we've disbanded everything, those are the rules, that's the first fitting, and so will be on one condition. As the Polish Parliament will carry out the whole legislative process, the President will sign, I launch what we have discussed. We're not at this stage. Look at the stage we're at. We are sorry for the comparison of Prime Minister Sasin At the stage, as someone here has said, sasin, namely, there is no law yet, and the government representative and the Prime Minister personally hand out promenades, i.e. a commitment and a pledge. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u195	Do you still wish to comment, Minister? Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd actually like to ask you this: from tomorrow as senators, can we ride with these promenades, too? After the Senate has passed this bill and distributed these promenades to the mobs, mayors, take pictures and publish in the newspaper that we have brought so many hundreds of thousands to this community, so many millions to the other? Is everything gonna be okay, too? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Try to... Well, I'm just wondering, I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u197	You're welcome, Minister. It's the promenades... But you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u198	Mr. Senator, it would be very inappropriate if the Minister of Government were to suggest in any way what the senators can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u199	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u200	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I will address the subject I raised in questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Namely, I mean such forms of organized recreation, such as: Scout camps. Various associations organize them, often deposits are so-called. contributions, no one issues an invoice, it is simply so financed that parents bear the costs. How will this voucher work in relation to such forms of recreation for children and young people? That's my first question. So, in other words, will such forms of organized recreation be able to be powered in this way... i.e. parents and the cost of these camps... And my second question is for the department's position. I am referring to the discussion between Senator Kwiatkowski and Minister Mucha. Namely, whether it is so that if the child on the date of entry into force of the Act gets the entitlement, but a week later he will officially be 18 years old, so he will cease to be a recipient of 500+, i.e. His parents will no longer be 500+ bearers.... Will it really be able to use this voucher until 31 March 2022? In this regard, the Minister explained that yes, but our Legislative Office has doubts about this. I think that our discussion is also being listened to by parents who would like to be clear about this. The population of this yearbook is large. It is 2020, so we are talking about the born in 2003. They're it, let's call it a border yearbook. Yes? And they can still benefit from it, depending on the interpretation. What is the government's position on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u201	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As we have already stressed, public benefit organisations, i.e. all ZHP institutions or sports clubs, are as entitled to provide services under a tourist voucher. The President's intention was that even those families who didn't want to use this voucher for tourist activities, and more for camps or sports activities, would have the opportunity. As for the case of this person or of this child who will be the beneficiary of this gift in the last few days, it is... Such a person will be able to purchase the tourist service by March 2022. This service will not have to be carried out immediately. It is enough that by the end of March 2022 a given tourist service will be bought out. The implementation time may even be multi-monthly. Now that's a remark, completely off the subject. Of course, we are aware that the law itself may require many different modifications or details during several months of operation. Given that, as regards the idea, this law is supported by most intelligent political forces, we are dealing with such a scenario that in a few months' time, when a lot of different inaccuracies... When this bill needs to be improved, we will, of course, be at the President's disposal, we are in the service of advice. A very important note at the end. We hope that the upper chamber will join other forces that will want this program to keep Polish Tourist Bon permanently functioning in Polish reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. To be honest, I didn't want to speak anymore, because I'm going to have to speak in the debate, but I'm just bleeding. We started with a serious discussion. Then, I think, the government and the President's Chancellery went into a ton of humorous and humorous, which we like because we're people with a sense of humor. But when all this goes into the cabaret phase, I'm gonna say I don't like it anymore. ♪ In the end, when I hear ♪ And that's the reason why I'm here. The words of the director... I'm not even talking about the Minister anymore. The minister's a politician, he's gotta... he's gotta shoot. But here the director of the ministry, the clerk, says so de facto, I understand it that way. That in Poland there have been times in which power may act contrary to the rules, with rules that apply not in Poland, but in any democratic state of law, i.e. under the law and within the limits of the law. He's trying to tell us that if there's a need, you can act without a legal basis. Even if there was a tragedy, if the air horn had crossed, I would have wondered if it was slow. But that's not the situation. If the government wants to support local governments, and 100,000 times everyone here has said that they are in favour of it, then whether it will give money for investments that are a process of at least a few months, and generally several years earlier or 24 hours later, nothing will happen. Mr. Senator, question. I'm almost done. The difference can only be that if it is 24 hours earlier, it will be unlawful, and if 24 hours later, it may be lawful. And what I'm trying to say is that there's no such thing as a law. No one has ever adopted it on the basis of which they will be distributed, because this is how it has to be treated, money, and it is money worth between 0.5 million and 90 million per unit, summarum total of PLN 6 billion. Well, if anyone else was doing it, it'd be a scandal... Mr. Senator, question. So I have a question for the director. If your supervisor tells you to give it up, for example. 100 thousand or 1 million zloty for something that this superior thinks is right, and you will consider that there is no legal basis, no law, no regulation, no regulation, no rule, no rule, no rule, but will you, as an official of the Polish State, order that money to be spent? Or won't you agree to this or ask your boss to give you a legal basis in writing? That's my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u205	Minister... The question was to the director. In that case, Mr. Director, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u206	I am very pleased, but as Minister of Development, I am giving the floor to the Director and I would be inclined to... In my opinion, the Director has exhausted all the matter in his case, so let me say that the Director will answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u207	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I refer to the last words of the Minister concerning the issue, if I understand, that the institution of such a voucher should enter the Polish system permanently. Is the government considering such an eventuality? If the success of this solution were to produce the expected results, would the form of such a voucher be a permanent instrument that could arise? And the second part of my question: wouldn't the government consider extending this witness to young people who are still dependent on their parents and thus learners? So it would be a way out of 18 years of age. By the way, I think it is worth thinking about this in the future in the context of the 500+ programme if there were budgetary opportunities. Whoever has children knows exactly what it's like when they're still dependent on their parents, but in fact they're already grown-ups, they learn, they have completely different expenses than... Expenditure related to them is quite different than for smaller children. I wouldn't want to differentiate between who spends more on who. I would like to ask whether such prospects are simply being considered by the government, because I think it would be very well accepted. I also motivate my question with this fact that as for the intentions of both the opposition, which has a majority in the Senate, as well as the Law and Justice, which has a majority in the Seym, but there is no majority in the Senate... As for the idea, we are all in agreement, but the discussion is focused on certain details of this solution or certain elements extending this solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u209	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I take the view that all those who are in this room are great supporters and friends of tourism, and that is probably why it will be in the common interest to consider that support for the tourism industry, but also to implement some economic patriotism and to learn about Poland, has been permanently inscribed in the Polish landscape. Of course, the President's office and the President will consider whether this programme will be modified in the future. But in my opinion, he's so socially valuable. 'Cause we're giving kids, families extra money. The programme has a chance to enter a permanent Polish landscape. And you can't accuse him that this is a simple hand. It is a really socially valuable program and thus very rational and empathetic to keep it forever. These types of tourist vouchers, which I have already mentioned, in Hungary or, in particular, in France, have a very valuable pro-social and pro-family element. And it will probably be possible to extend this programme to other social policy groups in the future. And that will be to consider whether this will be about young people and children, or perhaps in the future of seniors, if the state budget allows it and if it will also be the President's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u211	Thank you very much. That's where we ran out of questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Adam Szejnfeld. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the course of today's discussion, one of the main proposals that emerged was a proposal on whether or not to extend groups of beneficiaries with representatives of the environment of pensioners and pensioners. And, of course, I would like to convince you that we should look at this problem, taking away from each other some fall from political events, and to convince you, too. I'm about to bring up specific statements and data. That the financial situation allows such a decision to be taken, and to focus solely on whether it is really worth it, it is desirable and justified that the beneficiaries of the Polish Tourist Bone Act be the environment of Polish pensioners and pensioners. Yesterday, the report of the Polish own wallet was announced: a unique summer. This is a report announced by one of the commercial banks, but as a serious economic analysis. What can we read in this report? That the coronavirus significantly influenced the holiday plans of most of us, that close to every third Pole resigns this year from the holiday trip and that among those who declared that this year they would not go on vacation Okay, here's the The majority are seniors over 70 years of age. Almost 53%, i.e. more than half of all those who say they can't go on vacation this year, are Polish seniors, even seniors of this age, because they're not over sixty years old or over seventy years old. Notice what dramatic data we can get acquainted with. 53% people over the age of 70 say: in 2020 we will not go on vacation. And the fact that studies show that you don't choose to leave nearly 80% Poles with the lowest income, not exceeding PLN 1 thousand per month per head... In these families the holiday trip is very often organised on such a principle that it is the grandmother or grandpa, together or alone, taking children from the family, knowing that their parents cannot afford it. I'm also talking about it because... Or, in other words, this is another argument for adding a group of Polish pensioners and Polish Tourist Bonus to the group of beneficiaries. The authors of the report show that the instability associated with the pandemic of Coronavirus and its economic consequences effectively discourages the implementation of holiday plans. And it turns out that a group of pensioners and pensioners, although it would seem to have a stable source of income, because, of course, income paid in the form of pensions by the Social Insurance Institution, guaranteed by the state budget... It turns out, as you can see in hard data, that unfortunately in this group verification of this year's holiday plans is extremely far-reaching and this is a verification in the form of opting out of holiday trips. Therefore, I would like to encourage you to support these amendments, which will extend the subject group of beneficiaries of the Polish Tourist Bone Act on pensioners and pensioners. I support the initiative about the Polish Tourist Bon, I declared it earlier, I declare it once again, but let's do everything we can to make it to those who will not benefit from the holiday trip this year, in large part without this help. It is a group of almost 9 million Polish pensioners. Let us support this amendment over political divisions, over the divisions between clubs and senate circles. Nor do I have any doubt that the Sejm, having the opportunity to work remotely, will immediately gather if this is the decision of the Senate to accept this senate change. I would also like to remind you that at the beginning of the discussion on the idea of financial support for summer holidays in Poland, broader options of the group of those who will benefit from this programme were considered. Let us return to this good idea, so that Polish Tourist Bonus includes pensioners and pensioners. Of course, there is always a question, and this question has also been asked in this Chamber today, whether financial considerations will not limit the possibility of achieving this good idea. Here I would like to inform you that yesterday, Minister of Finance Tadeusz Kościński had a press conference devoted to public finances. And what did the finance minister say at that press conference yesterday? He said: the state of the economy is better than previously assumed, data after June shows that we are coming out of a pandemic. The Minister felt that public finances were doing well, and tax revenues for June proved to be better than the resort had previously planned. At this point, it looks like we've had the worst of it. I am very pleased that your budget is over. I am very worried that many Polish pensioners will have the worst vacation for many years. Let us change this situation, let us adopt together, by unanimous decision of the entire Senate, an amendment which will join the group of beneficiaries of Polish pensioners and pensioners. Today it is in our hands that the future of seniors, those who have worked for years during their professional activities and who also have the right to leave. I have no doubt that the various benefits that go to a group of pensioners and pensioners improve their financial situation, but we must remember what the OECD report of December 2018 best shows us, that Polish pensioners and pensioners against the background of pensioners in the European Union are still in one of the most difficult situations. The OECD report, which refers to the level of pension benefit in relation to the previously received salary, in the course of working life, shows that in Poland, as in Romania, Slovenia and Malta, this situation is the most difficult... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much ask for silence, because we hear all this here and it bothers the person who speaks. Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, not only the OECD report, but also the so-called report. Senior's portfolio, InfoSenior, which was announced in 2018, shows that against the background of seniors from all over the European Union... that the Polish senior has difficulty maintaining financial liquidity and that these difficulties are more than 6 percentage points higher than the average of the European Union as a whole. In conclusion, I would like to say that I would like to convince you that, in agreement, we will accept an amendment that will extend the beneficiaries of the voucher to Polish pensioners and pensioners. This will be the best decision we could make when it comes to supplementing the project supported by me by the Polish Tourist Bone Act. I also have no doubt that then the Sejm will deal with this law immediately, and the President will sign it, so that this change will not result in absolutely any delays and that this year's holiday period is a period in which children, but also Polish seniors, could benefit from financial support for summer trips. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u214	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Senator Kwiatkowski very warmly for supporting the amendments that we tabled as the Civic Coalition Club, on the extension of the group of beneficiaries of the Act on Retirement and Retirement. I will not repeat myself to justify this request. I made this proposal, this amendment at the Economic Committee meeting, but the majority rejected it. So that I reported it as a minority request, and today I've already justified it. My argument, ours, ours, and the Senator's argument is consistent in this respect. We would be very pleased if these arguments were also divided by law and justice Not just here in the Senate. Perhaps there will be a chance for us to adopt this amendment in the Senate and thus give millions of seniors in Poland a chance to relax, improve, improve their health. We would like her to receive similar support in the Sejm, although experience teaches us that even the best amendments adopted in the Senate are unfortunately rejected in the Sejm without analysis, without leaning over them. That's the line I'm leaving on the side. It was explained and, in my opinion, very well-argued. Nor will I discuss the whole law from my own point of view, because I presented my view and the meeting of the economic committee, and here, in some passages. In general, I support this bill, but I would like it to be a very good bill, not just a good one, and I will then file an amendment to your marshal in a moment. I'd like to zoom in a little bit. None of these amendments have the fundamental importance of offering help to pensioners and Polish seniors in this respect, but each one has its own weight. One of these concerns the extension of the range of services for which you will be able to pay with a bonem. As Senator Czarnobaj and I had previously announced, I would like to see the amendment to the article. 2 to this catalog include tourist services, just tourist services. It seems to me that this will cause other service providers to be able to provide their services as part of a voucher payment. I'll give you an example, without giving you specific companies. Gdańsk Shipping, Circuit Shipping, Masurian or Szczecin Shipping or, as with me in Wielkopolska, operators who operate on the Great Loop of Wielkopolska so de facto provide tourist services under the bill, travel of tourists, but are not a tourist company. They do not provide hotel services and will not be able to sell their services in exchange for value or within the value of the voucher. I think it's logical, natural and obvious to say. Perhaps I want to treat it so that such, and not another design of this recipe is simply caused by some mistake or accident, I do not want to use strong criticism here. It seems to me that it is very logical, especially when the specifics of tourist trips in Poland are adopted. I have already mentioned that the absolute majority of people drive alone and enjoy this tourism, take larger, smaller children to have a vacation. Now what? We're supposed to force them to go to a specific, registered entrepreneur. Otherwise, they won't get it, or actually they will, but they won't have it anywhere to go. Well, I don't think that's the realization of the idea that we've heard so much about here, that's supporting Polish families and Polish children. No. This is the idea of forcing to use a voucher only and only with certain service providers registered in the Polish Tourist Organization. Therefore, others, even if they meet, as I understand it, the statutory definition of hotel service or tourist service, but are not registered, will not be able to provide these services as a voucher. So here's the deal. Very important, in my opinion, another proposal we make is the deletion of the article. 17 and 30. What is it? It's about public procurement. Unfortunately, in this law it is revealed again, so to speak, manners, the tendency of the current government, namely where it is possible, under any pretext of excluding public procurement law from the regulations. I am convinced that Senator Blackbay He agrees with me, too. Definitely. The Law of Public Procurement in Poland, first of all, is one of the best in Europe, that is its opinion, second, it is so constructed, it would be strange if it were otherwise, little of it, it would be incompatible with European Union directives. Its rules, of course, also allow public procurement in a simplified manner in special situations. Therefore, making quick public procurement, but transparent, transparent when everyone knows everything, is possible and there is no need to exclude the entire law. And the state in the first shield disabled this bill, in the next you maintain it, and then what we turn on the TV, we hear about some ski coach who earns 5 million zlotys in one day or one night, some oscypian dealer who makes hundreds of thousands of zlotys in one transaction. No one knows who, what, how or why. The answer is clear: because public procurement law has been excluded. I would even say in a friendly way: why do you need this, why do you need this, the government, this trouble? After all, even if someone did not have a bad intention, did not do something dishonest, did not do something wrong, by accident or by dishonesty of someone else comes to at least ambiguous situations. And then... Senator, one more minute. ...everything, all responsibility falls on you. We propose: we help you, we file a motion to delete the article. 17 and 30, back it up. Similarly, we cannot really imagine, but there was no answer to the asked question, why the ZUS should get as many as tens of millions of zlotys to support this bonus, because you are planning 1% value of the whole as costs of running the voucher by the ZUS. 1% It's giant money. I don't know why there's going to be any payback for a government institution. She operates within the budget. And if so, that's as much as 1%. ? If it was 0.1% I'd think about it. That's why we're going to propose 0.5%. And here's the last thing. Well, then, Mrs. Marshal, I'm not going to discuss all the amendments, I'm almost done. Since there is so much talk about transparency, transparency, transparency of action, we would like the implementation of this law to be summarised in the information and that this information be submitted to the Sejm. I therefore propose an amendment to the Act, which consists in adding an article. 47a, who's talking about it. I hope you will support that, too. After all, transparency, transparency and honesty are close to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u215	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It is not for the first time that we hear from the government or politicians of Law and Justice that this is the Senate holding something back, delaying that it is not gathering rapidly or, in awe, making some amendments. We called not to do such harm to ourselves and to the Senate, but it is clear that all these warnings do not work, because on the occasion of this law, otherwise positively judged, we hear the same again. Well, I want to say once again very unambiguously and hardly that the time has passed when the Senate received the bill in the evening, and the next day, despite a number of amendments, and these are important amendments, including legislative ones, indicating that we are dealing with a legal issue This law was adopted. It's just that time has passed, it's not gonna happen anymore. If there are any laws that you consider extremely necessary for various reasons, urgent laws that the government or the Sejm would like to adopt very quickly It's just that you need to communicate with the Senate first, you need to communicate with the Senate Marshal on this matter. A good example here is the United States, where agreements between Congress and the Senate are on the agenda. There a number of issues are resolved in such a way that double mixed committees of Republicans and Democrats are created. And that's what I'm calling for. After all, it is possible to determine in advance what will be included in the bill, so that we know in advance whether we will have reservations or not. Maybe we could get rid of some mistakes right away. Our legislators would look at it, and then we could actually do it better. And this moral blackmail that's being practiced here, it's just never gonna work. I'm telling you right away. It's the same with this bill. Those crappy things that need to work faster, or people won't benefit, are just fake. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces a fairly complicated system for using these vouchers. Maybe he's the best. Well, I don't question that. But it's quite complicated. The government representative here said that it was only at the end of July that this ICT system would be developed, in which tourism companies would be able to register or register. And there are citizens. Their data must also be transmitted, first by the governor to the minister and then by the minister to the ZUS. It's all pretty complicated. Those who go on holiday with children I'm talking about school-aged kids because they're the only time you can go on vacation. In general, they have already been ordered places. You can't just pick one day at a time and just go somewhere. Well, to some agrotourism company, maybe so, although we know very well that, due to the pandemic, it is very difficult to find a place for the national tourism industry today. Therefore, this voucher will be used later. It's a good thing he's got that longer period of use. When it comes to children and going away with children, this voucher will rather be used later, just in winter, next year, so there is no rush. And for this reason, this minority request, this amendment that I tabled at the family committee meeting, has another value. Namely, when it comes to seniors when it comes to pensioners and pensioners, they do not have this holiday restriction, these two months of vacation. They can leave in September, they can leave in October. If we really want to help the tourism industry right now, not necessarily next year, just now, right now, so that as many resources as possible can now be made available to them, this is the group you need to think about. And it is this group that needs to be equipped with such a tourist voucher and given the possibility to use it at a later date, but this year. Of course, at the same time it will be worth it, I would say, social, just like the whole bon. He has such a double character. On the one hand, he's social, on the other hand. It motivates, revives a certain area of the economy. About the cost... Minister Mucha said he didn't know what the cost was. But these costs are very easy to count. We know how many pensioners there are. All you have to do is divide it by two, and it comes out in billions. And I don't think the whole amount is being used. Retirement and retirement are of different ages, and some of them will simply not use it. But we can't predict that in advance, we can't determine that. That's a certain maximum amount. So much for this proposal. He was here on various sides discussed, justified, argued, also with regard to budgetary issues. Well, we've heard here that the Government of the United Right is the government responsible and is guided by the budget, budget possibilities, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we no longer use such arguments. For this year, as we know, a balanced budget has been foreseen, and we already know that it will not be. The deficit is now 25 billion PLN and will increase. I am no longer talking about the fact that many expenditures, addressed to different types of recipients, are at all outside the budget. Therefore, the argument that, so to speak, budgetary responsibility is perhaps an argument rather from the past. It doesn't look like that today. Either you want to help specific areas or you don't. After all, 100 billion from the Polish Development Fund are out of budget expenditure. It's a very strong hit, and it's the right thing to do. It's a very strong financial impact. And here nobody mattered that it would increase public debt, that it would also have some consequences when it comes to banks, etc., etc. So this expense here is really something to swallow. And for the tourism industry, however, this is a large amount. And finally... Ladies and gentlemen, this morning, when we started our deliberations, there was a dispute here, a discussion. Marshal Stanisław Karczewski said that the Senate is not a place to conduct any electoral propaganda here and to deal with elections here. Well, you can take that assumption, except in this debate we have today, it's nothing but about elections, although that word didn't come up. Anyone who comes out on the side of Law and Justice, we hear about how good the President is, how he tries, how much he's already brought in these projects. Senator Swede even counted it and I think he said 32 that 32 projects so good for people, such as giving them various kinds of benefits. Well, you have to ask yourself... And that's where it really was. That's the question. I'm gonna make it stronger, and I'm gonna ask how the government didn't figure it out. 32 projects, and the government didn't bump into any of them, the president had to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bit like a long time ago. Before the war, this is how children's handbooks in the school presented power, i.e. The president, the voivode... Mr. Senator... ...old age, etc., that they are spenders of all good. Mr. Senator, time. Yes. I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński wrote such a poem called "Winter from school discharge." Maybe I'll quote a part, because he's gonna do a good job of handing out the propaganda you're doing here to the president. Who is this snowball from the heavens? To make, of course, Mr. Voivode; ♪ Snowball ♪ ♪ Snowball ♪ ♪ Snowball ♪ ♪ Snowball ♪ Mr. Voivodeship. Pray, little child, with the whole land. God give him strength. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a fairly flat, primitive propaganda and I discourage you from using it. And as far as the president is concerned, I would like to say that his main task is to be a guardian of the Constitution, the rule of law. And it was a terrible job for the president for five years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Maria Blanket. Please, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u218	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Ministers! The Polish Tourist Bone Act is a presidential initiative and is an extremely desirable initiative. We talked about this for two reasons, because of this social and economic dimension. I would like to thank the majority of the Senate that you are mostly positive about this presidential submission. It's happening right now, and it's not a coincidence. As we know, we have been affected by the Coronavirus epidemic, the economic crisis, the economic slowdown, whatever we call it. However, it seems more appropriate to say that this is an economic slowdown. Either way, these types of laws that introduce support tools on the one hand to society In this case Polish families who have children On the other hand, the economy is very much needed. You cannot deny President Andrzej Duda, to accuse him of using the legislative initiative that the Constitution gives him. He uses it, as all the presidents have used before him and as his successors will in the future. The President has the right to take a legislative initiative, to present his legislative proposals to Parliament. And so he did in the case of, for example, the solidarity benefit that we debated a few days ago and which was also very needed and very desirable. Now it is a law about the Polish Tourist Bon. As has been said in this Chamber today, this is not the first such initiative of the President. Starting with the Law reducing the retirement age, which the President has committed to introduce during the 2015 election campaign. Mr President is simply fulfilling his obligations to Poles, and I am also fulfilling the programme with which he went to the elections and which he promised to implement. This program is a social agreement with Poles and the President treats it that way. And now, when you have to react quickly, you have to react and the President reacts too. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a special time, we all know that, but the epidemic does not choose. She exploded during the presidential campaign, which has been going on since February of this year, for months. I'm sure the epidemic is exhausting for all of us, but it went off at that time, and that's why we had to postpone the election. But the authorities also have to react and whatever you call these laws, whether they're some kind of distribution, or whether they're part of the campaign, they have to happen now. We can't wait for the election to be decided until all this is over, well, we can't wait until September or October, because, ladies and gentlemen, life is going on. Tourist companies need help, Polish families need help, and maybe we can run this bon again this summer. It would be very good if this were to happen, and I hope that after the declarations made by Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy and President of the Polish Tourism Organization, it will be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, you are proposing to extend the scope of this law to include seniors in this group of beneficiaries. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the seniors are this group, which we are looking out for, and I would like to stress this: the government of the United Right is looking out for seniors. The retirement age has been reduced. On your part, today's parliamentary opposition, a large part of the Senate majority, the reform related to raising the retirement age was implemented against public opinion, contrary to the expectations of Poles. The retirement age was reduced as the Poles wished. And now, ladies and gentlemen... Over the years, under the rule of the United Right, what was the benefit of pensions? The lowest pensions have increased by 36%. You remember that one of the first laws we adopted in 2016 was a law that raised the lowest pension from PLN 850 to PLN 1,000. That's not a big amount either. But now this lowest pension is PLN 1,200. There's a 13th pension. There is a quota-percent value, which is 70 zlotys, that is the minimum that a senior gets, there are no increases by 5 zlotys anymore. My mom, who's been living with me for years, was an agricultural woman, she had a low pension, she'd been getting this valorization before, five zł, and she said, "Baby, baby, what is it anyway? Why bother? Write papers for these 5 zlotys. But it was, it was, ladies and gentlemen. I think the fate of seniors has improved significantly, although we have a lot to do in this regard. But when we make decisions, we have to be responsible. This is what we have already talked about here: the responsibility of the government, the responsibility of the President, the responsibility of us politicians for the decisions we make, the decisions that are, after all, financial. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law, the next act, because whether it is the President's initiative, or it is the laws of the anti-crisis, aid package, proposed by the Polish government... Their adoption is possible thanks to good cooperation between the government and the President. This cooperation has to be. If we are to get out of the crisis quickly and if we are to return to the path of development, dynamic economic development, and that is possible, because all the forecasts say that although there will be a recession this year, then there is an opportunity for future economic growth to reach 4.3%, then there must be good cooperation. This cooperation between the government and the president is now and I hope it will be in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the launch of this program, but also other programs... You're saying, let's not talk about the budget, it's supposed to be balanced, and it won't be. No, it won't. It would have been balanced if it hadn't been for the Coronavirus epidemic and also if it hadn't been for the economic crisis that touched us, just as it had affected the whole world. So it's obvious that you just have to react and you need a lot of money. But it's in the long run. And I think even the shorter it pays, because these aid measures that go to companies save jobs, save the potential of these companies. They save the potential of these companies, so these companies will have a reflection point to step back on the path of rapid growth and growth. And that's what we all care about. So, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of aid programs. and this is one of such programs, one of the tools to combat the crisis and support the Polish family who raises children, but also serves to support the tourism industry... This was all possible thanks to the fact that the public finance system was repaired. In 2015, when the government of the United Right took power in Poland, the public finance system was repaired. And we can't forget that. We remember what the income was like before. Every year... Well, you can compare what was the revenue of the state budget by 2015, and since 2010 they have been falling rather than growing... Crisis, Senator... ...and since... Well, by 2015 there was a global crisis, Senator, I understand. ...And since 2015 and in the following years the revenue to the Polish state's budget, the revenue of the Polish state's budget increased significantly. In 2015, it amounted to PLN 289 billion and in 2019 it was probably PLN 401 billion. So that's the difference of over 100 billion, a hundred and a half billion zlotys. The revenue of the state budget has increased in less than five years. It also reduced debt compared to GDP. And this is the financial space that allows us to react at the moment of the crisis that has arisen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President very warmly for this initiative, and I would like to direct these thanks to Minister Paweł Mucha. Minister, thank you for this special social sensitivity of the President, for the consequences in action, for these good projects, for caring for the Polish family. This is very important, this concern for the Polish family and support its specific program. Dear Members, my committee has adopted the draft law without amendments, but there have been amendments at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee, and they have also appeared in the discussion here in the plenary room, which is why I have also... Senator, I'm... I'm just gonna make an amendment, Mrs. Marshal. I would also like to make an amendment, which is agreed with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. This is a very important amendment to increase the subject matter of this law, because it concerns the inclusion of children whose parents work abroad. It is about situations where one or two parents work abroad, within the European Union, and these parents take educational benefits for their children, without taking the benefit of 500+, because the provisions on coordination of the social security system say that if the parents collect more benefits somewhere, in Poland they no longer benefit from the benefit of 500+, i.e. at that time these children would be deprived of this tourist bonus. And this amendment will allow them to benefit from this travel voucher. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment that will include 150 and 200 thousand children in the scope of this law. I think it's worth fighting for these kids. So I would very much like to ask the senators to support this amendment. I submit it on my own behalf and Marshal Mark's hands to your marshal, asking for a positive examination of it. Thank you again for this bill, Minister, and thank you also to the Senate majority for its positive assessment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u219	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm also joining what Marshal Maria Blanket was talking about. I would like to express my thanks to the representatives of the President's chambers here, the Minister of Raw Materials, the Minister of Fly and you, and to express my gratitude for this bill and to express my conviction that everything points to it. The bill will come out of the Senate with amendments and the Sejm will examine these amendments as soon as possible. We know the Sejm's meeting is scheduled for July 23rd. Perhaps this will be sooner so that this bill can reach the President's desk as soon as possible and enter into force. As for the idea itself as a specific tool, which is not only a support for specific families, for children and young people, for their parents, but also a form of support for the industry, which has been particularly affected by the pandemic of Coronavirus, it seems that no one needs to be persuaded. Both the opposition, which has a majority in the Senate, and the Law and Justice, which has a majority in the Seym, but does not have a majority in the Senate... As for the intention itself, as for the principle of introducing such a tool, there is basically no dispute. Everyone's on board. Of course, as is usually the case, there are different concepts about how to implement this idea, to what extent. I think it is a good thing that, during this discussion, we had the opportunity to compare the two draft laws, this May, that is, the parliamentary initiative submitted by the Civic Platform Club, and the President's initiative. The government submission is filled with content and some concrete fact, which, in my opinion, was lacking in the parliamentary submission, where in the case of most mechanisms concerning how these funds are to be issued, how it is to be settled and how it is to function, there were references to regulations. This argued with the principles of good legislation, as such issues should be recorded in the act. about the rank of the bill. As far as the details are concerned, of course there may be references to the regulation. High Izbo, I'd like to talk about one mechanism. Of course, I have asked Mr Gut-bridge these questions myself. I believe that the circle of people who could be covered by this provision should be larger. I was asking you if you should change the record here. It is about changing from 18 years to a time when a child, or already young people, remains dependent on his parents, so that parents bear the burden of financing his holidays, forms of rest. Because of the age of 18, it is not possible to activate this instrument. The same is true of any other groups that could be extended to a group of beneficiaries of this scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a special situation. I perfectly remember the discussion conducted when 500+ was introduced in 2016. It was said at that time that it was scandalous, that fraud, that not all children were covered by this program, that this benefit was valid practically from the second child. And I remember the government's declaration that if there were budget opportunities, this program would be expanded. And that's what happened. As we know, due to the state of public finances, adequate resources were found and the 500+ programme was covered by all children. The government never said it wouldn't be possible. Nevertheless, such amendments were made and I remember those who said that this is a distribution, that there is no money at all in the budget, that this is a scandal, then they tried to outbid the government, still in 2016, making amendments that, from the point of view of public finances, would be a imbalance, i.e. the form of the budget law. The same was true of those shields. I remember discussions about how the first shield came in: why isn't it there, and why isn't that area covered, and why isn't this help addressed to everyone? Unfortunately, we are in a pandemic situation, a situation actually unprecedented. There's an old saying: the road is seen walking . We can't design everything. In March, the government could not design a holistic concept of support for the economic sector, as the scale of the pandemic was not known, it was not clear what it meant for specific industries, what specific sectors would expect support, etc., etc. And I tried out of that bleacher, including. when discussing these shields, explain that all this is not due to the bad will of the government, nor to the government's unwillingness to make a suggestion to support certain specific groups of entrepreneurs, just because we do not know exactly what the scale will be. We do not really know what the economic impact of the pandemic will be today. And let me remind you that it will probably come soon to discuss this in the context of the debate on public finances. Well, High Izbo, it must be remembered that the government must share these resources responsibly. And you also have to remember one rule: to always have a black-hour reserve. Because you can't be led by such a philosophy that all the potential of measures that can go into support will be used immediately, and then, if you, God forbid, will show that you will need additional resources, then you will simply no longer be able to obtain them. So that I would like to explain this mechanism. I would also like to say that, of course, I very much support the amendment tabled by you by Marshal Koc and your Marshal Pęka, because this is a very good solution to include also those children whose parents work or stay in the European Union are not recipients of 500+, so they would be automatically excluded from this travel voucher. And this is a very good amendment, of course I fully support it. And I'd like to say at the very end It may not have been said much in this House, but it has been said That this instrument has basically 3 basic objectives. That's how I'd define it. The first, obvious, such the most obvious, is concrete support for specific families, for Polish children. Second objective: support for the tourism industry. But the third goal, which, as it were, stems from the first two, is promotion. Poland in the sense of its natural, tourist, architectural resources, all that is connected with tourism, with active rest, with sport. And that's the extra value. And that's why I think it's a very valuable tool. Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to the Minister for this initiative to the President. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u222	Mr. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please remain calm. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I'm sorry to say that I'm changing the text of my speech. I would like to say what we have discussed here, Mr. Minister, I am addressing Minister Fly and the other Minister. But this tribune has become, as you can see, a fantastic place to say that there is no better candidate in the Republic of Poland than President Duda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh! [[Applause]] Bravo! In order for you to refresh your memory, I will remind you of a few obvious issues, such as the quick signing of laws, including those that are not in line with the constitution, as many legal circles claim. I know there's a Constitutional Tribunal, Minister, but it's like you say that my henhouse is gonna be guarded by a fox who swears he won't take a chicken or an egg. Senator, I call you to order, because the subject of our deliberations is not the Constitutional Tribunal or the fox in the henhouse, but the Tourist Bone Act. Mr. Marshal, I'll get back to you. It's a pity you weren't sitting in the part where the Senators of Law and Justice were acting. But I promise you, if the Senators of Law and Justice don't talk about tourist bona, they'll start doing something else, for example. Propaganda to my candidate, that's what I'm going to react to, because that's the role of the marshal. I'm sorry, but it's gonna happen. Mr. Marshal, allow me to continue talking about the gift. As the tourist voucher was proposed by the President, I would like to say that the President has not fulfilled many promises in 2015. Regardless of all the words that came out of this tribune, it is not the man who has realized everything. I will just remind you very quickly that regardless of the very good tourism initiative, we will support this because this is a good solution. Mr President has not fulfilled his promises regarding the amount of tax-free and franchise-free. Well, I'd like to tell you that almost 1 million people believed that you could quickly convert these franc credits into currency, that you could have a loan in zlotys. Mr. President's initiative was lacking here. Well, this gift initiative is good, because she, Mr. Marshal, is part of helping Polish families. I hope that the amendments tabled by us, in particular those we are talking about... It fell from this stand that the President, like the United Right, cares for Polish families. As presented today, a group of pensioners and pensioners also require such support. I hope that what the Minister of Finance has said here is true that the state of the budget is better than it was expected that the state of public finances is promising in the coming years. I think it is worthwhile in support of the tourism industry to make such an extension. As far as this tourism service is concerned, so much has been said that I will no longer repeat it. Well, in order to benefit from the privilege of support, the Polish family must use the voucher for tourist service. At the same time, I would like to add, in fact, that the President did not complete the liquidation of the garbage contracts, the compensation, the reduction of VAT, the liquidation of the NFZ, the construction of the S8 road, etc. I'm not going to read the whole list anymore, because I'm sure he'll think he's going to do it in his next term of office. What else is in this bill? It is a fantastic thing, namely the local government support fund, the local investment support fund. As a man who has worked in local governments for 20 years, I am very pleased that as a result of various discussions and discussions, the government finally understood that Polish local governments need financial support. This is an important investment pillar. But how does the government do it? The Act has not passed yet, and the Prime Minister and other law and justice dignitaries drive around Poland, giving away investment proses. The investment support is mentioned in the Act on Tourist Bones. The Director and the Minister have shown the logical connection to one another very well. Well, that was fantastic. I want to confirm what you said to the marshal, Senator Borowski. No one in Poland can buy such cheap propaganda. This is propaganda, which is that it's... it's like the 13th, 14th, 15th pension. The President spoke to pensioners and pensioners: this 13th pension is because I gave it to you. I have a simpler solution: if pension is tax-free, there will be no need for costs, conversions and other things, and pensioners will choose their own funding. Well, it's just not gonna be like a politician. Anyone who comes will be able to say, "I gave this to you." And that's why I encourage you to do this kind of thing and think about giving away money as little as possible administratively as possible and not saying, "That's what I'm doing for you." And there was such an emperor in history. I've already given it several times, but once again I'll say it was called Bokassa, who was just separating the budget. There wasn't any money yet, and he was already going with the bag and he said in commune X: I like this commune, you'll have 10 times more, and I don't like these, you'll get 10 times less. And what's being done today? Money is distributed without legal authority. The law is still being processed, and the Prime Minister and other representatives of the United Right hand over money to Polish local governments. But what I'm trying to say is there's nothing wrong with it that doesn't work out for the best. Because this money will go to local governments under this law, local governments will make investments that will serve the local community. And it's better that they go to local governments if you can't give them up as the United Right. 'Cause you'd make them an apartment plus program, a flat-plus program, and stuff like that. Then you'd better not do it. They better go to Polish local governments. Polish local authorities will do it much better and more effectively. Except what happened in the discussion today... One of the President's main tasks is to uphold the law. And, of course, there will be an answer: but the Constitutional Tribunal would certainly decide whether it would be possible to rule... Let's refer to the Court whether the introduction of this fund supporting local governments is in line with the constitution or not. It's obvious there weren't all the readings. And what's most important? What we raised in the discussion. Well, once in history, it was like one of the deputy prime ministers organized elections and spent money without the authority to do so. And now they're all looking for who issued this authorization, where the cards are, etc., etc. As I see it, it is a secular tradition of law and justice to spend unspoken money without any legal authority. The procedure for the bill is ongoing and there are already various kinds of pledges consisting of a money-spending board. And, like I said, about that money going to local government... It's better than they're being spent in a different way. So this is... Finally, I would like to say this: there have been questions here about support for the tourism industry. After all, if we support any field, then one element must be... In addition to supporting the family, i.e. the possibility of wider use of the tourist service. It's okay. One of the elements of this support is the support of the tourism industry. If something like this is done, the first question is: how much did this tourism industry lose in the first quarter and how much did it lose in the second quarter? We've been asking around here for, like, three hours. At least four people asked that question. I did some digging, and I can read the minister, because the minister said we didn't have that kind of data. I'll read the data I downloaded. In the first quarter, the tourism industry lost about PLN 10.6 billion in terms of revenue compared to revenues in 2019 and in the second quarter it is estimated at PLN 24 As a result, support at level three... Four. ...4 billion zlotys of this shield is an important element. And it's okay that there's such support for families and industry, but let's not talk about big support. So why value, say, oh, what great support! There's backup. Support that the Republic can afford. We're giving you $4 billion. And yet, how very well it is that the President has submitted it. Because the government didn't think it could be done. Thirty-six times the government hasn't stopped by... Just before the election. And finally, there was one president in the history of the Republic of Poland who got a bad score in the first round and came up with an idea. His staff probably told him that. To do a JOW referendum, etc. He also had in mind to please certain social groups and thus win the election. I want to tell you that this is the kind of action you take for taxpayers' money, at their expense, and you say it's all because of you. I, paraphrasing Santa Reja here, will say this: Poles do not goose, have their brains and will know how to vote on the 12th of July. I hope that this will not be the votes for President Andrzej Duda, who presented the draft travel voucher bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki, who, contrary to what some of you see on the screens, is not in room 217, but is here. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] He asked for a reschedule. Senator Dowhan, which I explain to everyone concerned about the temporary absence of his name, asked to be moved. I would like to assure you that he has not been illegally removed from the list. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I support support for the Polish tourism industry and support for Poles who want to go on holiday during these difficult times of epidemic and economic crisis. This industry needs to be supported because it is one of the sectors most affected by the crisis, as is the case for example. transport industry or catering industry. It employs over 1 million people. Estimates vary as to what part of the gross domestic product is generated by tourism, but this is certainly a few percent. Without such support, many companies in this industry would not have had the chance to survive this very difficult year. Nevertheless, I strongly condemn the stubbornness of this assistance and its involvement in the campaign of the President-in-Office. It is extremely sad that instead of working together for a goal that should be shared, i.e. to help the tourism industry, we observe games that, firstly, delay this assistance and, secondly, do not allow it to be better defined. I'd like to say a few facts here. Work on this kind of support started in April. Then we heard Prime Minister Emilewicz's first statements on this issue. Well, I don't think she was prime minister at the time. If this type of aid were to be finalised then, we would indeed be one of the first countries in Europe in this area. But in some strange way, for a whole month, from the end of April to the end of May, nothing happened in this matter, at least as far as the government side is concerned. Then the burden of work in the Sejm took on the opposition. I, too, had the honour of participating in this work with Senator Gromek. In May, work was ongoing on a project that Mr Raś spoke about a lot here. This project was consulted with all clubs and circles in the Sejm except the Law and Justice Club, who did not wish to discuss this project. Suddenly, at the beginning of June, his proposal In a completely changed form, but with many ideas from the opposition project, you presented President Andrzej Duda. And this is not about copyright, because in the election campaign, it is the right of the authorities to use this type of situation, even if it is not elegant, but it is about making the final result of early and comprehensive consultations Because we all represent different environments, from geographic to political, it was the best. And there wasn't enough cooperation. If, at the moment, representatives of the government or the President's Office say that the cost of our proposals regarding the inclusion of pensioners and pensioners is incalculable, then this is because you refused to cooperate from May, for example. in calculating the costs of this proposal. The effects are that it is good that you accepted at least a few things from our opposition project, especially one, which is the greater universality of this voucher. Let me remind you that the first proposal was based on a salary criterion. - up to the national average. It is also important, above all, to extend this proposal for 3 years. I would remind you that the first government proposal was only for this year, and the first presidential proposal announced at the beginning of June covered only this and the future. It is good that it will be possible de facto for 4 tourist seasons, i.e. summer now, winter and summer next year and winter in 2022, to use this voucher. But the fact that you didn't cooperate in anything... I remind you that a month ago in the Senate we organized a meeting with the entire tourism industry, to which the Ministry of Development, competent for tourism, did not come to a disadvantage not only at the level of the minister. I understand that Minister Gut-Mostowy may have handled one of his hotels or guesthouses. But you didn't even send the director, but God was responsible for the warden's spirit, who was unable to answer the absolute majority of the questions raised not only by the senators and Members, but also by the tourism industry. As I mentioned earlier, you did not express your willingness to consult that project, from which you finally took many solutions, also in the Sejm. PiS was the only club that refused it. So now I appeal to you, I ask you, not only in the Senate, but also in the Sejm, to accept at least 2 proposals which are absolutely right and which will help both the tourism sector, the entrepreneurs in this sector, those employed in this sector. As I say, it's over 1 million people. As well as the Poles and Poles. This is an extension of the possibility of spending this gift on services such as renting guides or renting canoes, bicycles, yachts, etc., etc., but also extending it to pensioners and pensioners. It'll be good not only for them. You can tell me 14 retirements, 15th and 16th will do the trick, but no, they won't. Because if you accept this solution, it will help those who need it the most, which is small family hotels, travel equipment rental companies, etc., etc. And it will also help them out of season, because retired people and pensioners most often take holiday trips and holidays outside the season that is reserved for younger people, i.e. in autumn, spring, before holidays, etc. This will allow the tourism industry to gain more sustainable and greater benefits than if you do not accept this good proposal presented in the amendments by the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that Senator Dowhan has resigned from the debate. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u226	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I promised to speak briefly, not to repeat myself, but there's something I have to say. I have a habit of preparing myself for the plenary session of our Senate, and I am surrounded by professionals who know each other on the subject. And I promised the people in the tourism industry that I would scream here from this speaker, a problem that is actually tragic about this industry. They were so happy when Prime Minister Emilevich said 1000+. Everyone saw their chance. What Senator Czarnobaj presented in terms of numbers shows how dramatic the situation is. I would like to pay particular attention to one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Remember, the competition in the world and Europe is awake. If we don't help... We talk so much about economic patriotism. That's what we say, because it doesn't cost us anything, but when the time comes to show this economic patriotism in pragmatism and in practice, then somehow we turn our heads. Today I say from this tribune: all industries will manage, all will manage, even in a tragic situation transport will manage with them, but the tourism industry will be torn apart by competition in Europe and in the world. And we're gonna be ashamed of it. That's why I'm in favour of this amendment with Senator Szejnfeld, and I'm going to ask everyone... One side is an empathetic and moral side, but the other side is an economic side. I'm asking you to accept this amendment. Of course, I'm always in favour of helping children. You don't have to be original here, you don't have to be president to figure it out. And a word at the end. You don't listen to your leaders. After all, Mr. Karczewski asked us not to do politics today. Well, stop starting with the words: our great president. That's why Mr. Czarnobaj made a comparison that doesn't seem to count... Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u227	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Dear fellow Senators! Three of those thoughts I wanted to share with you. First line. Many Senators Senator Borowski and Senator Czarnobaj and my previous speaker, Senator Komarnicki It said that we're doing politics here... Oh! ...glorifying the president. But this speech by Senator Czarnobaj, who began to calculate the supposedly unfulfilled promises of President Andrzej Duda, is the conduct of such a dull, primitive policy. We here, at this point, are not from the President's account. Today we are debating a tourist bon, about the support of Polish families, about the support of Polish tourist entrepreneurs. You had to, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Civic Platform, come out with such an initiative. This was the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, and that is why we today have the right to discuss the proposal for a bill made by the President, to refer to it, to say that it is a good proposal, because Andrzej Duda is not only a candidate in elections, but above all he is the head of state. And I can already see you criticizing President Andrzej Duda for not bringing his proposals during this difficult period of the outbreak of coronavir. This is one of these proposals, not the only one, but one that we are discussing today, for which it is worth discussing in this situation, not in the situation of elections, but in the situation of the fight against the koravirus, in the context of what Senator Komarnicki was talking about, that is, supporting Polish tourism entrepreneurs, thanking the President, thanking you for the fact that this initiative is today and today we can vote on this legislative initiative, which you have tabled by the President. Ladies and gentlemen, coming back to the substance of this law, I would like to say that it combines 2 features, 2 very important matters: on the one hand supporting Polish families, supporting Polish families, which is, I think, everyone close, so we give a tourist voucher to children, on the other hand supporting Polish tourist entrepreneurs. I am from such a region, from the electoral district, where there is a very highly developed tourism, that is Karpacz, it is Szklarska Poręba, and every day I can observe how Polish entrepreneurs, mainly small guesthouses, hotels suffer from the appearance of coritotus. A month ago, I was in Karpacz. Well, I'd say a terrifying view of these empty streets, empty, closed guesthouses. And today we are introducing a solution which is kind of forcing, as I said at the committee meeting, but it is probably better to say that it encourages families to take their children and go to the Polish sea, to the Polish lakes, to the Polish mountains and on the one hand to give children the opportunity to rest, and on the other hand to support Polish tourist entrepreneurs. Most of these small hotels, these guesthouses, which we think about here, are run by Polish owners, small Polish entrepreneurs, often engaged in single-person activities, employing local workers. There's two more things. They talk about pensioners and pensioners all the time, about the fact that it's worth supporting them. Of course, I agree that pensioners and pensioners are is a group that needs support, but for them we have and to them we address other forms of support That's what you've been talking about, Marshal Blanket. Because it is a positive benefit for pensions, but perhaps even more important is support in the form of the thirteenth and already announced for the 14th pension. This is much more than 500 PLN. I am talking about the 13th pension, and in the perspective, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said, there is a 14th pension... This is support for Polish pensioners and Polish Rentists, real money that influences this group of people into the account... well, if someone doesn't have an account, it receives it from the postman, just like my sacred memory of my grandmother, who always preferred to receive it from the postman. On the other hand, as far as traders are concerned, Let us not forget that this tourist voucher is very important, very important, because it is aimed money, it cannot be spent for any other purpose than the provision of tourist services The Polish entrepreneurs, also tourists, received powerful support from the government within the shield 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and 4.0 depending on who used the element of this shield. Polish hotelers And I'm saying this because I know because I talked to the owners of the guesthouses in Karpacz and Szklarska. They were very happy to benefit from this, and from this loan of 5 thousand, but above all from the cancellation of ZUS contributions for 3 months, maybe not redemption, it is necessary to be precise, payment of ZUS contributions by the Polish State, because this is an important difference. The Polish Development Fund for larger entrepreneurs, the Financial Shield is simply living cash, which influenced the accounts of owners of larger hotels, whose revenues often simply fell to zero. And one more thing. One more thing. This support for Polish tourist entrepreneurs is implemented. In fact, we have a very difficult situation. I agree with Senator Komarnicki here. The tourism industry is one of those industries... Well, when someone closes the hotel, it's got zero revenue, and we're aware that for a certain period of time it was a mandatory obligation, closing the hotels was mandatory, and we're just loosening it now. One more remark. We also need to look at some financial realism, at the budgetary possibilities of the Polish state. After all, it was you, gentlemen and ladies of the Civic Platform who introduced the third point on the discussion of public finances, with a subtext: how bad is it? And at this point, you want me to say, without any restrictions, to increase budget expenditure. Let us remember that all that is written in this bill today, in this travel voucher program, is numbered, agreed with the government and can be financed. What Senator Marek Borowski was talking about, it should be the establishment in the Seym and the Senate, as it is in the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States... I just don't know if Senator Borowski knows there's a slightly different procedure in the United States for passing legal acts. It would be good for the senator, when he uses such a comparison, to familiarize himself with these legal solutions, completely different from in the Polish Parliament. There, in fact, these laws go back from chamber to chamber, there must be arrangements, so that's an impossible argument at all. However, of course, any form of cooperation is better than a form of confrontation. And we have already shown, in this term, what Mr Marshal Grodzki also said in his speech, how many amendments to the Senate were adopted, for example, to the laws adopted at the previous Senate meeting. However, in the case of laws to which you make very populist amendments, as did the President's previous solidarity act, when you couldn't veto it... Then Mr Grodzki: I'll throw in a hundred more. And that's the election campaign. That's populism. It's a miscalculation of any budgetary reality. And, of course, with this bill, together with President Andrzej Duda, we are trying to help Polish families, we are trying to help Polish entrepreneurs effectively, in a real way, in terms of budget opportunities. And for the fact that such proposals are made by the President of the Republic of Poland, the President-in-Office of the Republic of Poland, it is only necessary to thank you, not criticize you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the five-minute speech of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... If you don't mind, I'll take the floor from here. You're welcome. Just a little bit. I'd like to address these few words to Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. Mr. Senator, if you watch the speeches of the representatives of the United Right during today's debate... If you want to know what dumb propaganda is, as you call it, then watch it and then answer the question: what is the definition of dumb propaganda? That's one thing. Second, notice something. You say good. I'm also saying it's a good thing. That the government distributes or, as it were, assists local governments with the investment fund, the amount of PLN 6 billion. And he's doing it without legal authority. And now I'm going to move on to the quotas. When we say that an important element of support is the support of pensioners and pensioners at the level of 4,5 billion, you say: you have to take responsibility for the budget. We invited a representative of the Ministry of Finance today. I hope that he will present us with information about the state of the Polish budget, because no one knows. If we are talking about support, and you are giving examples of the need to support the tourism industry, then we are saying: yes, we are in favour of it, we just want in the bill that the president introduced, and it is good that he brought... But I would also like to tell you that the first bill was filed in the Sejm, if I remember correctly, by Members of the Civic Coalition. He has become an element examined or considered by Members. After reading both the President's proposal and the one which was submitted by the members of the Civic Coalition, this law was created. I signed up for this fantastic discussion about the bill and propaganda of saying that everything that is, everything that retired people and local governments have, is thanks to the President, because he has made the right bill, and thanks to you, because you are giving the local government. I want to conclude by quoting Alexis de Tocqueville, these are words from over 200 years ago, which once said this: if the American senators understand that it is possible to buy voters, it will be the end of American democracy. I would like us to consider the laws in a substantive manner, whether you bring them in or the government brings them in. I don't want to keep showing up and bragging about how great the president is, how wonderful the government is. It's insulting. We bring in draft laws, and citizens of the Republic, Mr Senator, can themselves assess whether they are good projects, whether they offer benefits. You don't have to say it ten times from the Senate stand. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sure it won't be a surprise to you that you signed up in a similar manner, Senator Frost, whom I ask you very much to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u232	Mr. Marshal, I don't always sign up for the next vote. That's not what I meant, Senator. Please don't take this as a sniff. Firstly, Senator Czarnobaj, I did not refer at all in my speech to the Fund for Local Government Investments, but as you have already raised this subject, I will say that this is very good and important, this is the answer to the expectations of Polish local governments, whose topic is raised everywhere and towards the Civic Platform. We listen to voices about these expectations. Mr. Trzaskowski is talking about the need to support local governments, and we are just these local governments support. And that's the difference: we do things, and you say things at best, and what you promise, as history has shown, you don't realize. Mr. Senator, you cannot deny the President the opportunity to submit draft laws. The draft laws that the President is reporting today are not based on the fact that there is an election campaign and that the President is a candidate. They result from an objective situation, from the pandemic crisis that we have. Today, I would even say, it is the duty of the President, the duty to support the government in such situations, to support Polish entrepreneurs, to initiate various kinds of good solutions. They are a tribute to what President Andrzej Duda is doing, driving around Poland and meeting with voters. The last thought I would also like to address concerns the financial situation that we have. I'll tell you again: it's not what you say, quoting even different people that we corrupt someone and distribute resources. The essence of the budget... you, as a member of the budget and finance committee, as well as an experienced self-governmentman, know what the budget is. This budget is a breakdown of the various appropriations. And it's up to politicians, the budget managers, how the money that comes down from taxes and other charges will be divided. And the difference is that we first sealed this budget, and today, with the funds of a sealed tax system, we're putting them on important and socially important targets. We broke up with the policy of neoliberalism, which has been implemented since the 1990s, also by left-wing governments and present in the Chamber. Well, I don't actually know if he's in the gym right now. Minister, today Senator Marek Borowski, with the politics of such extreme liberalism, but Poles only have to tighten their belts... Mr. Marshal, five minutes. ...and that we're going to race some macroeconomic indicators. What's this? We have shown that we are able to share the fruits of the economic growth that was. Mr. Senator, I remind you that the discussion concerns a travel voucher. Yes. But a tourist voucher, Mr. Marshal... I drew Mr Czarnobay's attention to the fact that what he was talking about was not the subject of this debate. I'm afraid so are you, Senator... No, Mr. Marshal. You're in an extremely remote way... You're out of line. I'll remind you. It's a tourist voucher. Mr. Marshal, there was an accusation from Senator Czarnobaj that we are distributing funds. Yeah, we're giving away money because it's the essence of the state budget that these funds are spent on something. We direct these funds to support Polish entrepreneurs and Polish families, i.e. for such purposes which, in our opinion, are socially and economically right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now... I'm sorry. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the following senators have made their speeches in the minutes: Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Alexander Sweed, Senator Mariusz Gromko and Senator Mieczysław Golba. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Senator Maria Koc and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? Senator Durlak has yet to give a speech on the record. I'm sorry I missed him. Let me repeat the question: have all the senators who intended to make legislative proposals already done so? Please check that all applications and submissions submitted have already been submitted. I would like to inform you that all requests and submissions submitted have already been submitted. The discussion is closed. Would the representative of the President, the representative of the Members of the applicants or the representative of the Government wish to respond to the proposals put forward? Very briefly, if you'll excuse me, sir. Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u234	Thank you very much for the support that has been expressed in many speeches by the senators. I think in everyone there was a declaration of support as a rule of the presidential initiative of the Polish Tourist Bone Act. I would like to respond positively to the amendments made by Marshal Maria Koc, pointing to the extension of the scope of the subjective law, the group of beneficiaries of this benefit, i.e. the Polish Tourist Bonus, also about children who are... within the framework of the so-called. coordination. That's the thing we consulted with the government. It's an extension... It is also to listen to the demands of the senators, who have said clearly, several times, that it is worth expanding this program. And we're expanding it. We know that these beneficiaries will be about 150,000 or 200,000. These are solutions that should be considered during committee work. I don't want to talk about politics. Let me just say that the President of the Republic of Poland is doing his duty. An important part of these responsibilities is also the exercise of the President's constitutional power to submit a legislative initiative. All the criticisms or malicious remarks that were made in the speeches are, in my opinion, a commentary on the ongoing election campaign. In fact, as you say, the President has done a good job by presenting a valuable and good bill, which I hope will be adopted by the High House shortly after considering the amendments that have emerged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. I'd like to inform you that there's a technical problem in room 217. Not all senators could hear the Minister's speech, for which we are very sorry. This is a technical problem. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Senate, we begin to consider item 3 of the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances in 2020. I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We do not have a representative of the government in the process of discussing the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances in 2020? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I have just been informed that none of the representatives of the government have come in connection with the item on today's agenda of the High House, which reads: the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances in 2020. As I understand it, there is neither the President of the Council of Ministers, nor the Minister of Finance, nor anyone, even the lowest one placed in the hierarchy of the Ministry of Finance of an official, who would present to the Senate the information about the public finances of the Republic in 2020. I believe this is a situation without precedent, which must raise a question about the state of public finances of the Polish state, but above all about the attitude of the government of the Republic to the constitutional body of our state, which is the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Would any of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to speak in this rather unprecedented situation? You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm surprised to hear that. I think it's the first time something like this has happened that the government asked for information ignores it completely, even in a situation where the request for such information is completely justified. It is not as you just said here, Senator Frost, who, referring to the proposal to extend the package to the beneficiaries of the travel voucher, said that it is expensive, that the majority of the Senate is asking for financial information and will certainly criticize the distribution, and yet we are done with this policy... etc., etc., Senator Frost has developed. No, it's absolutely not that. The point is that we wanted to find out what this situation was like and how it could continue to evolve this year, so how the public finance deficit could evolve, how the budget deficit would want to overlap with these deficits from what sources. After all, we have certain laws, e.g. a law that speaks of the so-called. expenditure rules, a law that talks about prudential thresholds. We have a constitution that talks about public debt that can't exceed 60%. GDP. We are of course aware that, in a pandemic situation, in a crisis such as this, there are major difficulties in implementing some of these restrictions. But as a result, we wanted to know how the government wants to solve this problem, and if this is done through some statutory changes, how long some unique solutions will last. After all, the idea is that some of the actions that the government takes will no longer turn into rules. I'm talking about spending... Well, at the moment maybe not most, but at least half of the budget expenditure is implemented outside the budget, it is implemented through various types of funds. These funds are multiplying, more and more, and these funds finance their needs and expenses by borrowing debt through bonds, and this system is starting to unravel. Therefore, the question is, first of all, to justify such a large number of these funds and so, I would say, a free attitude towards their tasks... Because I want to say that most of these funds or some of these funds carry out tasks that are in general contrary to the idea of setting up them, e.g. The Justice Fund in the Ministry of Justice or the Reprivatization Fund or the fund that was supposed to finance vehicle records. And it's all the Supreme Board of Control that points out in their report. So the point is that we wanted to find out how long these are transitions and how long they last, and when the government is going to restore some order to public finances. I think that what would also be of great interest to citizens is whether this situation, which is, will result in an increase in some taxes, as the government sees a gradual exit from these various deficits and whether it can result in a reduction in wages and salaries. Here I'll remind you that in the last so-called. The shields found a provision that allows the President of the Council of Ministers to introduce, on a decision basis, rates of wage reduction and dismissal of people in the wider public finances, public administration, local government, etc., etc. So we wanted to know if this recipe was going to be used. We also wanted to know what the health care situation would be like. Today we hear that there will finally be a special fund for the treatment of rare diseases, especially in children. There is not yet a project on this issue, although the information we have shows that this is to be financed through the measures currently being spent on health. So we wanted to ask you that. But we also wanted to ask you why the Health Benefits Act has been violated for years, this article It's an art. 131 - which makes it clear what percentage of gross domestic product should be allocated to health protection. There are indicators for 2018, 2019, 2020 and the following years. None of these indicators is being implemented, as yet. In 2018 there was a shortage of 6 billion, in 2019 there were 11 billion, in 2020 there was a shortage of 20 billion... 12 billion, I'm sorry, 12 billion. Within three years, in breach of this law, the government has not given a total of 29 billion to health care. And how can we not be surprised that during the pandemic period we had such situations as we observed? It's a good thing she didn't develop to some extent. But still, when it comes to treating all other cases besides the coronavirus, there's actually been paralysis of this health care. So we wanted to know whether this law would continue to be violated or whether it would finally be respected. These are, of course, not all the questions, not all the problems we wanted to put here. But, but there won't be anyone. Well, I can only conclude that this topic is extremely uncomfortable for the government. It's inconvenient because of a lot of issues you're going to have to explain here, to a lot of difficult questions to answer. Of course, it is much better to come with projects that are a certain kind of gifts, subsidies or various additional resources than to explain a fundamental issue such as the situation of public finances. I can only express my disappointment and outrage with this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to say, High Izbo, that we are in an unprecedented situation, unprecedented in several respects. Firstly, it is very difficult to discuss And this is what the Senate's Rules of Procedure require of me at the moment to discuss the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances in 2020, because this information was not given to the High Senate because, I would stress, unprecedented and contemptible to the constitutional body of the Senate of the Republic, the absence of representatives of the President of the Council of Ministers in this matter. This makes it very difficult for us to have a regular discussion about something that we cannot discuss because the government has not provided this information. Nevertheless, I realise that in the situation where the government of the Republic shows a clear contempt for the Senate, behind which most Poles are... I understand that the senators want to speak on this matter. And I neither find strength in myself nor find the basis for the rule of law for not giving this voice to you. However, I regret the fact that the information that the government was about to give about the state of public finances of the Most Clear Republic is information that the government apparently wants to hide from the Senate and the citizens. Please, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we are dealing with an unprecedented event. I've been a parliamentarian since 1991, with a four-year break. And there was no such event in the history of Polish parliamentarianism, although political tensions were often much more serious than today. And what I'm trying to say is that this is a violation. not only political culture, but also a constitutional standard, which obliges every constitutional institution, including the Council of Ministers, to cooperate for the benefit of the public good. Reliability is also a constitutional obligation. You can essentially support yourself, but you can't refuse to participate in the state life. This is the decision of the Council of Ministers In an emergency situation where all the serious considerations relating to combating the epidemic and the public finance crisis are in favour of acting on a consensual basis. I really don't find any reason why the government didn't show up for the Senate. And I suggest to the marshal that we move on to the next items of the agenda, but not to treat this item as being realized until the end of the Senate meeting until tomorrow. The Senate is waiting for the Council of Ministers to perform their constitutional duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u239	Mr. Senator, thank you so much. Do I take your statement as a formal motion to postpone this point, I understand, until a representative of the Council of Ministers arrives? Yes. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider that the formal request by the senator to postpone this item has been accepted. Since I don't hear any objection, I believe the Senate has decided to reschedule point three. Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on public finances in 2020 Until the appearance of a representative of the Government of the Republic of Poland in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Text... Can I talk to you about a formal matter? When I'm done reading, I'll definitely give you the floor. The text of the Act is contained in print No 149 and the committee's report In print No 149 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present the report of the committee and the conclusions of the minority... Please, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj on a formal matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u240	Mr. Marshal, if I may ask you to take a 15-minute technical break at 6:15... On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, please. To? By 6:30. By 6:30. Now? 6:15 okay. But I don't know if the senator will make it. I can't fit...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u241	Well, then, I'm now declaring a recess... By 6:30. ...until 6:30 p.m. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 11 to 18 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u242	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u243	Can I have it on the spot, Mr. Marshal? Of course. Thank you very much. The Government's draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act was intended to restore the full basis for calculating the pension reduced in 2012 in a manner, according to the Constitutional Court, which corresponds to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, unjustified, incompatible with the Constitution, of the amounts of the so-called pension. early retirement. During the committee meeting, Senator Majer's request for adoption of this draft law was made without amendment. There were also words of thanks directed towards the government for restoring higher pensions and granting the right to these higher pensions to women, because they were mainly concerned with this problem, born in 1953. Most of the committee... I have a problem here because four senators actually supported this proposal, and four opposed the proposal to adopt this law without amendment. So he fell and was not accepted. Some senators also submitted minority proposals because, as I said earlier, as a result of this political division of senators, these proposals also received four votes in favour, four votes against. It is worth recalling the history of the law and the history of the victims of faults, which must be made clear by the regulations introduced in 2012. The bill's like this... It ended its legislative process and already in 2016 petitioned the Sejm to introduce legal solutions that would eliminate these illegal solutions. The petition received a negative government assessment. In 2017, a similar petition entered the Senate and the ruling majority, Law and Justice, also on the basis of a negative opinion of the government, rejected this petition. In March 2019, the Constitutional Tribunal answered the question of a preliminary ruling by the court hearing the complaint brought by you in 1953 and considered that it did not question the legislator's right to such decisions, which allow for early retirement and at the same time reduces the full pension which is obtained after the age required by the laws, but questions the way in which the post factum punishes those who retire early without awareness... Therefore, the problem was that someone who had retired early in 2013 already knew that early retirement would result in a reduced basis, which gives the result of a full pension. Someone who was retiring before 2012 did not have that awareness and should therefore not be punished backwards. In 2019, understanding this problem, the Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted a bill, as it seemed, supported by the government. This project was directed to work in the Sejm. The government supported him, but at the same time, in favour, he was against it, because in September Prime Minister Morawiecki ordered this project to be withdrawn from Parliament's work. And that's what happened. In December 2019 the Senate renewed a project to address the huge problem of tens of thousands of victims of this misapplication. And in December 2019 this project, after being sent to the Sejm, was also sent to the freezer, until the President announced the whole of Poland... sorry, Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, announced that here the government presented a new bill which would remove these legal disadvantages. It seemed that it would remove... but does not delete, because the law proposed by the government resolves only the issues of year 1953, and not the reservations of the Constitutional Tribunal. So, to tell you the truth, so-called copy The paste from the Senate bill did not work out well and properly. Because the senate bill, the one that was discussed with the government in the Seym, provided for a resolution, really solving the problem not only of the year 1953, but also of all those, including the men who, passing on to early retirements Because they were e.g. teachers and exercise their right to early retirement They were unaware of the consequences of their early retirement and therefore retired. So in committee meetings, we decided to restore all those records that the committee... a minority, because this is a minority motion, a motion from four senators... We're trying to bring it back. And that is what we are asking the High House to do - those provisions that will resolve the problem noted by the Constitutional Tribunal. They will ensure proper application of the law to persons who have gone to early retirement without knowing that they will lose the basis for calculating their pensions in an appropriate way when they reach retirement age. There is another minority proposal because the government project is not only limited I'm gonna say it again. To just one year of 1953, it still says: we will give this money, but only six months after the entry into force of this law. So we want to restore the three-month period for dealing in some cases with the problems of people affected by a legal defect by... for the examination of this ex officio by the Social Insurance Institution. And we say: those people who cannot benefit from it in such a very smooth way will have to submit applications, also within 3 months of the entry into force of this law... I think that's all we decided on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u244	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Arthur Dunin, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u245	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll speak from the spot, too. Thank you very much. Yes, yesterday was the meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee. We discussed a law on amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund. As the rapporteur, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, has said, this matter is the government submission that does not cover all the issues that the Constitutional Court has referred to. Fixing the error that appeared in the Act of 11 May 2012 in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council In fact, it was 4:4 that was the result of the vote, so the balance of the forces wants to correct this error, the one from 2012, introducing a change in the article. 1, which actually causes constitutional equality to be maintained, constitutional equality for all citizens of our country. Therefore, please, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please accept two amendments. The first concerns the fulfilment of the constitutional requirement for this law, the second concerns the shortening of the waiting time for all victims so that the money they deserve... They deserve it, not like Prime Minister Szydło said, that it belongs to the government. No, no, it is people, citizens, citizens of the Republic of Poland, Poles and Poles who deserve this money. Therefore, we want to reduce the period for payment of the benefits due from 6 months to 3 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u246	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? Senator Swede. From room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I am very pleased that Senator Dunin said in his report that it was a mistake. It was indeed a mistake. I will remind you of the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act of 11 May 2012. As of 1 January 2013, the rules for calculating the pension benefit to so-called recipients have been amended. early retirement by introducing Article in the provision. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b of the law less favourable arrangements, consisting of deduction from the basis of the calculation of the universal pension collected so far of the amounts of old-age pensions. I have a question for you, Senator Kochan, because the senator in her report talked about two petitions, she talked about a petition from 2013, which was a response to these solutions, and a petition from 2017. When discussing the 2017 petition, she said that the Government of Law and Justice had not responded. However, he reacted since we have the amendment proposed today. I'll ask for a petition from 2013. I would like to know what the PO-PSL government's reaction to this petition was and whether there were any legal steps to remedy this legal defect. Were they even there, or did the government do anything in that direction?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u248	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u249	The senator is calling for a petition from 2013. It wasn't like that. The first petition reached the Sejm in 2016 and in accordance with the rules governing the petition in the Sejm, I was the Member who conducted the petition. We called on the government to settle this issue, but the government's opinion and decision on this matter were negative. Once again, a petition of the same content was sent to the Senate in 2017 and also met with a negative opinion of the government. I remember the long debates in 2016 during the Committee on Petitions in the Sejm, in which we held a government representative, Mr Butior, to these solutions and reminded that Mr Butior was also responsible for preparing the pension reform in 2012. You know, you know, the only one who's not wrong is the one who's not doing anything. The wrong one is the one who doesn't want to come out of the wrong way. And we were perfectly aware of that, and we were trying to fix it. That's what we're appealing for. Once again, we bring the same problem to the Senate. Let's settle him in favor of those who can't be responsible for mistakes. And one more thing: make a mistake and admit it, and being wrong is two different things. You've really had time since 2005 to fix these mistakes by pointing out what's ours. Meanwhile, you have been in charge since 2015 and the government, after twice the negative assessment in 2019 just before the election, decided that well, we will support, because several tens of thousands of votes, I apologize, I will say trivially It will come in handy, and then, after 2 months quietly withdrew the bill from the work in the Sejm. Now, during the process of the same act as the one already passed by the Senate in December 2019, the PIS Senators partially supported it and partially abstained from voting on this issue. The government also said no, no, we will not protest. And then silence, until the government partially, fragmentedly, arranged this project in its project, announcing success and receiving authorship to those who are the authors of the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u250	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question? Of course you can, Senator. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u251	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I just heard in the report: 2013. But the senator didn't answer the question. Well, it's not art to advise how to rule if you don't rule. You were also 3 years old to correct this error, the legal defect. And I'd like to ask if the PO-PSL government... In those years, from 2013 to 2015, were there any legislative initiatives on your part to remedy this legal defect?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u252	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u253	No, Mr. Senator, there was no such initiative because no one reported a problem. From the moment the problem arose, we admitted our mistake and tried to fix it. You see mistakes and do everything you can not to correct mistakes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u254	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Stanisław Szwed like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Sejm has prepared solutions for the Social Insurance Fund pension law This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal contested the provision of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b of the pension law, on the basis of which the pensions of women born in 1953 granted after the end of the general retirement age were reduced by the so-called ones paid so-called. early retirement. This provision would not give rise to any doubt if it had been announced before the time when this group of women decided to retire early. In the view of the Constitutional Tribunal, the introduction of a mechanism to deduct the amounts of benefits received from women in the year 1953 was in breach of the constitutional principle of trust in the State and its rights. And now: to zoom in a little bit closer to the whole matter. 'Cause she's pretty complicated in pension systems. The question of what was the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and what was decided by the Constitutional Tribunal must be clarified here. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal did not contest the appropriateness of the mechanism for reducing the basis for calculating the universal pension by the sum of the amounts of old-age pensions collected prior to the year 1953. The Court finds that the contested provision is unconstitutional in so far as it concerns women born in 1953 who, before 1 January 2013, acquired the right to a pension under Article. 46 of the Social Insurance Fund Act did not contest the possibility of applying the set-off mechanism to other persons. And the second, also very important decision, resolution of the Supreme Court, 7 judges, dated 28 November 2019, which stated that insurances born in 1949 and 1952 had the opportunity to benefit from the conversion of the universal pension without applying the mechanism to reduce the basis for calculating it by the sum of the amounts of previous pensions collected. So the issue we are discussing here, whether it concerns the 1953 yearbook or other yearbooks, has been decided clearly in the Constitutional Court's ruling: it concerns the 1953 yearbook. And so in the Supreme Court ruling. So we're talking 1953. It is worth recalling the 2012 decision. Why did the Civic Platform and PSL government make such a change? He did it for the reason that some people in early retirement, i.e. in the so-called. An old system, later retiring, could enter a new system. Thus, so that there is no situation that the person no longer works, retires and is still included, even though he does not pay his contribution, this mechanism has been introduced. Therefore, this mechanism has been applied. Those who have not retired now have the opportunity to convert in a new way. And the Court questioned one thing: that the people of the 1953 year did not have the opportunity to intervene, i.e. to make a change, because they were not informed, were surprised. This was challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal and in this solution we refer to it. And in those discussions that have been going through the Senate for many years, in general, through Parliament... The last one... sorry, the penultimate resolution of the Senate of July 2019 was about the 1953 year. The whole Senate is That's when he backed up. It went to the Sejm meeting. Due to the parliamentary elections, we did not have time to consider this project, but it was in line with this project that we are proposing today, with some modifications. Later, this new Senate initiative, which is consummated in this project from December last year, was no longer talking about the 1953 yearbook, but was returning to enlargement to include all yearbooks, namely 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952 and beyond. Today's report, which combines senate and government printing, refers to the 1953 yearbook. And now, how will this mechanism work? The Act provides that all insurances, not only women but also men born in 1953, have the right to establish a universal pension without applying this mechanism to reduce the basis and deduct the previous pensions. And there are two groups. This group of first insured persons who applied for a general pension before issuing a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal will again, already ex officio, have a new pension amount established by the Social Insurance Institution. We estimate that this will be on average at the level of approx. 202 PLN. And the compensation for the entire period will be one-off, in the amount of more than 12 thousand, exactly 12 thousand 786 PLN. Of course, I'm talking about the average, because for everyone it's going to be calculated individually. We propose that this solution should come out of office after 6 months, which is actually from 1 January of the Social Security Office to these people. This solution will apply to over 62 000 people. And there's a second group of people, those who didn't benefit from early retirement, they've worked on, they've saved, they've been paid off, and they've been paid off. Because we maintain the principle that retirement is an employee's right, the employee decides to retire at a given time They will be able to have a pension converted in a new way, without reducing it, and the increase in their pension will be on average at the level of about PLN 1 thousand 487. That's gonna apply. I'm about to look at some 11,000 200 people's notes. So in total, 76,000 people are covered by this solution. If we look at the funds that the Social Security Fund will have to lay down... In the next 10 years it will amount to almost PLN 4 billion. Here, it's important that this other group will have to at the request... So I repeat this earlier thesis that this is, as far as retirement is concerned, at the request of the insured person. So this period is going to count from the entry into force of the law. For six months at the request, this group will be able to have a new pension converted. And they will no longer receive this compensation. There have also been proposals from the Senate, Senator, Marshal Borowski, to include everyone, so that we can hand over the information prepared by the Social Insurance Institution to your marshal. And the difference... If we'd all embraced the whole group, so we'd have removed the art. 25, that would be at the level of PLN 35 billion 500 million. This solution, which we propose, is at the level of PLN 3 billion, almost PLN 4 billion. This solution, which he proposed in the last version of the Senate, is at the level of PLN 35 billion. From all the information I've put forward... Both from the Constitutional Court's ruling and from the Supreme Court's judgment... According to our best knowledge, the matter is positively resolved in this regard. The adoption of the principle to the whole could calmly result in further groups having claims on other situations in the pension scheme. Because the pension system is, as before, at the very beginning I said, quite complicated. We have early pensions, early pensions due to harmful conditions, early pensions due to individual professions, mining, teachers, etc. So the system is very complicated. That's why it's our presentation. And I am asking the High Senate to accept the solution that the government has proposed. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u256	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u257	I have one question for the Minister. The person born in 1953 who retired in 2008 was then surprised by the change of legislation. After 5 years, she could only apply for a universal pension, which is in 2013. And, as I understand it, together we believe that this is the wrong condition, should be changed. Citizens can't be surprised like that. Then I have a question. Here's an employee, this is a concrete example, because we got a whole bunch of these kinds of letters, letters, phone calls, emails, etc. The man who was born in 1950 worked in heights, did a special profession and was entitled to early retirement after the age of sixty, who was sixty years old in 2010. He retired early. After 5 years when he was 65 years old, he applied for a universal pension in 2015. He was informed that it would be reduced as he spent five years in early retirement and that it would be deducted from capital. Can you tell me how the situation of such a person born in 1953 differs from that of the gentleman I just discussed? And it's a real case, not an imaginary one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u258	Thank you. You asked Senator Borowski a question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u259	This dispute, Mr. Marshal, has been going on for many, many months. And we're executing the Constitutional Court's judgment. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal refers to the year 1953. He doesn't apply to other yearbooks. And the Court has made it clear that the 1953 year-old group was surprised by that decision and that it was not possible to take any other decision. This was also confirmed by the Supreme Court ruling. And in this respect, We're in this bill, so to speak, we're in. But...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u260	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u261	But I understand... the Minister answered me a little bit next door, and I'm asking what's different about the situation of one person and the other.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u262	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u263	Well, I've already answered that. This person, let's say, may have had information about these solutions. There would be no problem in this case, which you are talking about if there were a vacathio legis extending the entry into force of this law. No, no, but... how could she get that information? The later, later person. No, no, no. In 2010, she retired early... Yeah, but if she retired early, she took advantage of that prior right and she didn't work anymore, she didn't work for herself, so to speak, the next stage... But the one from 2008 is exactly the same...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u264	Mr. Senator, this is not a discussion between the two of you. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you very much. Problem... Excuse me, Senator Swede earlier. From room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. In part, this concerns the question I referred to Senator Kochan earlier. I'm very happy for you. And I thank the government side here, of course, that we are repairing this legal defect, which was still created under the government of PO-PSL. I went to this blog for pensioners, and there I found a statement in the archive. This is Elżbieta from Łódź: I received a reply from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Social Insurance Department, signed by Mr Zbigniew Januszek, dated 4 December 2013 at the address of the government's representative for equal treatment... Of course, this was also about the 1953 yearbook. And my question is this... I don't know if the Minister will be able to answer me or if he has that knowledge. Is it really as the rapporteur suggested here that under the PO-PSL regime, when this 2012 entry came up, the government did not know what was going on? In 2013, 2014, and even 2015 did no one signal this problem, but were such signals and petitions? If that's possible, I'm asking for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u266	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u267	With regard to the dispute that you have been having, I am not at the moment able to say from my mind whether there was a petition in 2013 or not. All I can say is that the problem was from the very beginning when the bill was passed. And this was the case for those who exercised these powers. It should also be noted that the period between the entry into force of the law and the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal is 7 years old, i.e. the Constitutional Tribunal has been dealing with this issue for a long time. And as I'm saying, he was only deciding the issue of lack of information or the absence of a vacathio legis to the bill. If this was a vacathio legis, we assume that the Constitutional Tribunal would not question this solution which was introduced. So in this respect, all I can say is that there was a problem. After all, in many cases we also discussed this with the Member of the Social Policy Committee and sought a solution. The Constitutional Tribunal has set this solution that we are implementing today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u268	Thank you, Minister. Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u269	The problem with this whole issue is that it was only in 2015, if I remember correctly, that there was a Committee on Petitions in the Sejm. And these petitions were otherwise resolved. By the committee... I do not remember from the work of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs that such problems would affect there. And did they influence the government? I don't know. I was a parliamentarian, not a minister or a minister. That's how Senator Swede answers it. I simply believe that our dispute between the Minister of Sweden and the Senators of the Civic Coalition is that we consider that the Constitutional Tribunal, answering the question referred at the Court concerning a particular case of a person who was born in 1953, could not extend it and answer otherwise. But... But in his explanatory statement, he says, no, I don't question the fact that the legislator says that if someone retires early, he takes the money from his set-up poop of banknotes, on the basis of which he is then calculated the amount of the pension. If he retires at the age of the general retirement age, which is now at the age of 65, he uses a larger banknote file. If he's scraping this file earlier because he's retiring five years earlier, then we're pulling out of the money he's saving, what he took before. The Constitutional Tribunal does not dispute this, it questions one thing, i.e. that if a legislator introduces such a principle, it must warn those who wish to benefit from early retirement about the consequences of their decisions. If he didn't do it... Senator, I'm sorry... Yes, yes, I'm almost done, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u270	I will read the formula again: you can submit questions lasting no more than a minute. Senator, this is not a discussion. Please, one minute. I'll keep an eye on that time. I'm sorry. There you go. But the other question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u271	Our argument is that you believe that this applies only to the year 1953, because this is the ruling of the Constitutional Court, and our view is that the Constitutional Tribunal otherwise justifies its verdict.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u273	Mrs. Senator, as we know very well, the pension system is very complicated and we have an old and new system. If we had this mechanism that... I was trying to explain why it was applied in 2013. He was used so that there wouldn't be an even greater difference between the old system and the new system. Therefore, this mechanism has been applied. Whether it's right or wrong, I'll leave it to you to say otherwise, because this dispute doesn't concern all of this. If we were to make a change for everyone, we would go even further, we would deepen these differences, and it is easy to imagine that those who are now in the new system are going to challenge these provisions to the Court, this may happen, we are not able to predict it, because why we are giving preference to the next groups that are in the old system again. The whole pension system is, as I said, very complicated, and as we add early pensions to it, the more complicated the situation is, because the system was, as you know, changed in 2012. We are therefore looking for a solution, we have applied solutions that are strictly in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and we have also shown the costs resulting from this. Like I said, here are 3 billion 899 million zlotys, there Almost PLN 36 billion. Well, the difference is fundamental. Oh, no, that's... Mr. Marshal, you know this mechanism well enough, we don't have to explain it to each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u274	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u275	In the form of a question. Minister, the problem is that the state, when preparing a draft government law, already knew the draft Senate Act, which existed since December, also knew him interested, because it is no secret that we probably all had people directly interested in it in our senate office. Adoption of a draft law that corrects an error only in respect of certain yearbooks, and the Court has not dealt with other yearbooks because of the nature of the proposal... You'll have further requests in a moment. I have the simplest question for you. How do you feel that a project, when viewed from the perspective of the parties concerned, is better able to pursue the interests of those concerned or could be concerned if we were to fully implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal? Isn't the Senate project better, wider, more complete implementation of those rights that they have an interest in?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u276	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u277	If we refer to the last project, which is as if back to the first version presented in earlier periods by Marshal Borowski, then... Later the Senate, accepting the solution in July 2019, returned to the year 1953 and this proposal of the Senate was supported by the government. And today, the answer to the 2019 proposal is this project, it concerns the 1953 yearbook. Of course every extension... Mr. Senator, well, you answer yourself... Well, I was just asking which one better, wider realizes... You answer your own question. If you answer that we're giving to everyone, we're recalculating or something in the retirement system... I think everyone would say they'd want something new later. So that you already included an answer in the question. Yeah, well... And the Minister didn't answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u278	All right, gentlemen, gentlemen... Well, the Minister has already answered. I would also like to inform you, because there was a discussion about when etc. that the petition in 2013... I want to inform you that when it comes to the petition law, it was a Senate initiative, it was adopted by the Sejm on 11 July 2014, the Senate adopted it without amendments on 7 August 2014. This is partly the answer to Senator Swede's questions. In other words, the petition law has only been in operation since August 2014. Now you're asking Senator Dunin a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u279	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I only have two questions, no comments, just questions. Do the Minister and this government respect the constitution? That's the first question. Two: are you and this government familiar with the principle of constitutional equality? That's it, maybe that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u280	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The government respects the constitution, and I have no doubt about it. This bill is fulfilling... Yeah, sure. This law complies with the principle which the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled. Let's stick to disagreements. To answer the question... No, no, I'm sorry, but I asked you a specific question... I was just about to finish... ...the principle of constitutional equality, and that's what you didn't answer me. He wants to answer right now. The principle of equality is treated absolutely by the government in accordance with the constitution. There's only one explanation here, Mr. Marshal. Petitions had previously been dealt with by the Sejm committees, i.e. the Social Policy Committee, at the time it was not the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, only the Social Policy Committee also dealt with petitions in the form of other... Later, a Committee on Petitions was established in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u282	Minister, I don't want to go into polemics with you, but you're wrong because the form of petition wasn't included in the Constitution at all, there was a petition rule in the Constitution, but he wasn't... Okay. ...formalized by law. Therefore, petitions at all during this time... Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. Excuse me, there are questions in room 217. I sent the questions... Oh, there's still some questions for the Minister. I'm sorry, I didn't see... There's another question at the moment. You're welcome, Senator Tyszkiewicz. Yes? It's okay. Senator Tyszkiewicz and then Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u283	Minister, I have a question from my constituents. Unless I missed it somewhere... It's about counting... interest payments. You have used our money since 2013. That's what the voters write to me. The value of money has fallen dramatically. Will any interest on this accumulated capital be paid or not? The second question concerns succession. My constituents say that time is flowing, very often they are the elderly, uncertain tomorrow and they ask about the inheritance of those debts, which will not be paid so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u284	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In this case, there is no inheritance. We're talking about a pension system that doesn't have an inheritance system. So here, in this case, it's not there. Those differences that are calculated... As far as the compensatory amount is concerned, at the level of almost 12 thousand PLN, it is calculated The difference between this transition period is average. Therefore, this can be treated as having interest in this amount as well. Well, here, when you count this compensation mechanism, there's another mechanism.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u286	Senator Stanisław Swed. Stanislaw isn't... I'm sorry, I was wrong. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Not yet...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Alexander Swede. Alexander Swede. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have not so much a question as a conclusion. I was just going through the Internet forums. These petitions, requests and requests addressed to the Ministry At least according to this information, which ladies in the year 1953 reported in 2013 and 2014, there was a great deal in Internet forums. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to check whether such letters are in the Ministry. I'd like to be informed in writing whether it's for the Ministry. At the time it was the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and such petitions were sent in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u288	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u289	We'll try to find out. There's a lot of information in the ministry. As far as the pension system is concerned, there are several hundred and sometimes even several thousand questions per month. Depends on the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u290	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Alexander Swede. I would remind you that Senator Marek Borowski has been authorized to present the position of the Senate. Would the senator like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It has already become a bad tradition that when it comes to correcting various mistakes from the past, it starts to discuss who did it. Well, of course, there's moving documents, evidence, analysis. Now Senator Swede is asking Minister Swede to draw up a list of who came forward, etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a waste of time, a waste of time. We have to solve the problem. After all, no one hides that the 2012 Act was partly wrong. An error has been made and this error should be corrected. I have already said this at the committee meeting, I have said this before at the Senate meeting, and at the moment I am directing these words to Senator Alexander Swede: there are really no innocents in this matter. Well, the PO-PSL government, which has adopted such a provision in this law, is to blame. Yes, then there were conclusions, there were demands to change that. It wasn't changed, but then a new government came along. Again, there have been requests and requests, and there have been petitions twice in the Seym and in the Senate, and this has not been changed either. Few of this, I have here an interpellation no. 18905 of 2013. The author directs it to the then Minister of Labour and points out that he receives a number of complaints from people who have retired early, with attention It does not talk about pensioners from 1953, but about miners, teachers, railroaders, that is, all those who were entitled to early retirement in connection with their work under special conditions regardless of when they were born. He says it's about people born after 31 December 1948, that is, all the people we now want to embrace, and he's asking the government to take care of it. Well, the answer was negative. Mr Butior, who was then a Deputy Minister in the Government of Law and Justice, answered this question. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, He wasn't. He was, he was. He was, he was. No, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry, but... He wasn't? He was the principal. Oh, he was the principal. I'm sorry. He was no longer Deputy Minister, but he was Director and still responsible for these matters. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask who was the author of this interpellation. Well, it's gonna be hard to guess. Minister Swed. No, no. It wasn't Minister Swede. Marshal Borowski. It was Mr Andrzej Duda. Andrzej Duda made this interpellation. Very nice of him. Only when he became president, he forgot all about it. But he could've submitted a project. Every now and then he presents various kinds of laws under which he gives this or that. And he forgot about it. What am I saying all this for? Not to accuse anyone here, but to appeal: let's cut the blame for these cases. We agree it needs to be fixed. Minister Swed, I'm having an endless discussion with you. But as I asked you, what is the difference between the situation of a worker who worked at a height, was born in 1950, retired early in 2010 and in 2015 applied for a universal pension and was told that unfortunately he would be cut off from the situation of a person born in 1953, you could not answer that question. This question cannot be answered other than that it is not different, just nothing. And that's why we have to deal with it. Don't hide behind the Court's judgment. As is the question of a preliminary ruling concerning the situation of a particular person... The Court of First Instance considered the situation of a particular person, the Court of Justice expressed its views on the case of that person. But when you read the justification, you know that the Court clearly said that you cannot surprise the citizen with solutions that cause losses that this citizen could not prevent in any way. In this situation, there were others. The example I gave is one of the examples. I'm talking about men who were also entitled to early retirement, who were in the same situation. You just have to get this problem done, not run away. The Minister says yes, but these are extra costs. They're here. I'm not saying they're gone. Only those problems won't go away. In a moment, if anyone comes to the Court, and I'm absolutely sure that after this bill... She's already loud, she's already known. So many letters came in, e-mails from people who are included in our bill, and they're not included in the government bill... I'm sure they won't stop there. It's perfectly clear. But then these compensations will be even bigger, and we'll have to pay even more. Then why do it? You just have to say it like it's popular, take it on your chest and do it right away. And when it comes to money... Well, Minister, don't give me 10 years' expenses because it's confusing. I said I can count 20 years' expenses now, it's gonna be even more. Annual expenditure in the option, so to speak, extreme, that's, on average, 3.5 billion. Of course, it's not enough, I'm not saying it's nothing, but, Minister, if the President, besides the 13th pension right now, promises 14 and then the 15th, the 16th and says that we're going to get to twenty-four, because it's about raising pensions in general, then I'm sorry. It means there's money, at least the money it's about. That's for sure. First you have to settle commitments, and then you have to give something more, something that is no longer a legal obligation, and is, for example. An electoral commitment. By the way, as far as our December bill is concerned, I would like to say that the arguments were quite convincing at the time. I looked at the results of the vote. The Law and Justice Club then abstained in the vote, was not against it, and then there were such senators, greats, who are also senators now, such as: Senator Czudowska and Alice Zając, Senator Józef Zając, Senator Jackowski, Senator Pupa, Marshal Koc, Senator Sagatowska... and they all voted for this bill. I'll be honest with you... Minister, I know that you are limited at the moment by, so to speak, the disposition you have received in this matter. I understand that, but perhaps if the Senate passes this bill along with this minority proposal, that is, it will restore, so to speak, the practically senate variant, it will be a moment to think about it. Until the Sejm takes care of it However, you may come to the conclusion that this issue needs to be closed. And it's not like the Minister said there's gonna be any new groups around here. I specifically asked the Minister to prepare a summary of how many others are still on the table. And we know exactly how much and which ZUS knows it by name and knows how much is due because he calculated everything. Therefore, there is no concern that there will be any other groups here. We're talking about a particular case. On the change in the pension system in the context of early retirement. So there's nothing here to say, to scare each other, that there will suddenly be hundreds of thousands of candidates for extra money. In conclusion, Minister, let me say this. For me, it's enough to say, it's embarrassing, because we've been talking about this for actually a year. The first initiative was about a year ago, so that we have been talking about a year and it is difficult to reach an agreement. Of course, it is good that the government has finally come up with the proposal it has come up with, but once again I stress: let's just close this topic, let's not drag it, because we will only expose ourselves to protests and problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u292	Thank you. Currently, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of query to the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Marek Borowski. No such questions. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Senator Aleksander Szwed. In corrigendum mode. But, Senator, I've already corrected your name. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Is there any other correction? May I? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Borowski, my intentions are not... It wasn't about attacking someone, but since the beginning of the process, one and the other rapporteur created reality on the principle: someone once made a mistake, and now the government of law and justice doesn't want to correct this mistake... Mr. Senator, this is not a correction. It's polemic. Do you have any corrigendum? But, Mr. Marshal, there is a question that I have such intentions as to attack someone. Well, I guess that's the kind of intent I didn't have.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u294	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. No, no one signed up. Please don't do me any favors... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...because I can make a mistake. For the record, Senators Janusz Pęcherz, Aleksander Szwed, Benjamin Godyla and Mariusz Gromko gave speeches in the minutes. Legislative proposals... Oh, no, no, no. Then you withdrew Senator Kwiatkowski. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? Please check that all requests and submissions submitted have already been forwarded by the senators. Wait a minute. I would like to inform you that all requests and submissions submitted have already been submitted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals. The text of the Act is contained in print 150 and the committee report In print No 150 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee. Are you a senator? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals is included in the Seym Nos 415, 417 and 417-A and in Senate Prints No 150 and 150 A. It was a parliamentary bill. In the name of social justice, the amendment of the Act to the Senate implies the introduction of a provision that will determine communist crimes within the meaning of Article. 2 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Nationals of Poland, which are not war crimes or crimes against humanity, as crimes without statute of limitations, as is the case in the case of crimes under international law that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. The failure or remission of criminal proceedings due to the limitation of criminal offences not prosecuted in the previous regime for political reasons creates a lack of sense of justice in society and a lack of proper functioning of the State apparatus. Building a democratic rule of law requires settlement of the past and strengthening of these values and principles, thanks to which Poland survived the time of enslavement. On 1 August 2020, there will be a statute of limitations on the criminality of communist crimes, which are not crimes of war or murder and against humanity. In order to avoid limitation of the criminality of such acts, it is necessary to amend the provision of the Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1a of the Act as amended by this draft law. On 23 June 2020, the Senate Marshal sent the Act to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Commission. The Joint Committee meeting was held on 30 June 2020. The joint committees shall request the adoption of the law together with the amendments. I would like to point out here that the law was adopted by both committees almost unanimously, i.e. Only one senator abstained. Finally, I would like to remind you that the number of Members who supported this law in the Sejm is 443. 443 Members voted in favour of this law, 4 opposed and 4 abstained. That is why I am asking the Senate and your senators to adopt this bill with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u296	Thank you, Senator. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, because now there will be questions for you. Yeah, yeah, I know. I'm just here on the side... Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask a question? There's a call, right? Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. I am in favour of this project in all its scope, and I will be taking the floor in the discussion, but now I would like to ask whether during the committee meeting the representative of the Institute of National Remembrance signalled to you whether the IPN has any estimate of how many more cases we still have, in which we will be able to benefit from the revision of these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u298	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u299	As I recall, there was no talk about it. But there's an IPN representative here, so there's still a question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u300	Senator rapporteur, was there really no discussion about this? I said I don't remember... Oh, you said I don't remember. Because I remember... Okay. ...that it was, were given estimates. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questions. And now the bill has been filed by the Members. Ms Anita Czerwińska was authorised to present the position of the applicant for the draft law in Parliament. Would you like to speak on this law? If you don't mind, I... Yes, you can. There you go. Mr. Marshal... Mrs. Member, you're welcome, it'll be more comfortable here. Right here, right? Yeah, yeah. I'd like to invite you to a central location.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will allow myself to further develop the question from the justification of the project, the parliamentary bill. On 1 August 2020, there would be a statute of limitations on the criminality of communist crimes, which do not constitute a crime of war murder or crimes against humanity. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to amend the provision of the Article in order to avoid the limitation of criminal proceedings. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1a of the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. In the name of social justice, applicants for the draft law propose to introduce a provision that will determine communist crimes within the meaning of Article. 2 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, other than war crimes or crimes against humanity, as crimes without statute of limitations, as in the case of crimes which constitute, according to international law, crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. The failure or remission of criminal proceedings due to the limitation of criminal offences not prosecuted in the previous regime for political reasons creates a lack of sense of justice and a sense of lack of proper functioning of the State apparatus. Building a democratic rule of law requires settlement of the past and strengthening of these values and principles, thanks to which Poland survived the time of enslavement. Justice, the correction of harm, the punishment of the guilty are fundamental obligations, and at the same time the conditions for the functioning of a democratic rule of law. We also point out that in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is said, it is written that citizens have accepted it, memory of bitter experiences from the time when fundamental freedoms and human rights were violated in our Homeland. It is therefore the legal responsibility of the legislators to ensure that the authorities of the State are able to prosecute communist crimes and that the courts are able to judge them fairly. Therefore, the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance indicated in particular the need to preserve the memory of the great amount of victims, losses and damages suffered by the Polish people during and after the Second World War, the obligation to prosecute crimes against peace, humanity, war crimes, as well as the duty to make amends to all those affected by the State that violates human rights as an expression of our belief that no unlawful action by the state against citizens can be protected by secrecy or forgotten. The Members of the applicant point out that the European Court of Human Rights has consistently held that it is up to the democratic rule of law to judge crimes committed in totalitarian systems and not prosecuted for political reasons. These include crimes from the period of the Second World War, the Republic of Poland of the years 1944-1952 and the Polish People's Republic. The judgment of communist crimes has not only a legal dimension, but also an expression of the moral condemnation of such acts, the consolidation in the public awareness of their criminality, as well as the provision of a sense of justice to the victims, their families, their loved ones, and to the whole society. Admission to the limitation of communist crimes would constitute a denial of constitutional values and generally recognised by the international community. This would also be an expression of the irrational criminal policy of the state. The absence of a clear legal, moral condemnation of such acts, which are emanation and the necessary condition of the previous system, may in the long run lead to the formation of movements supporting communist ideology. Mr Senator mentioned here that when it comes to work in the Sejm, there was unanimity on this issue. All parliamentary clubs supported the bill, it was put to the vote. Apart from a few instances of abstentions or against Members, they supported this law. We ask the Senate to support this bill as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u302	Thank you. Member, just a moment. I'd invite... There you go. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the authorised representative of the applicant, Mrs Anita Czerwińska, relating to this item on the agenda. No such questions? No. Thank you, Mrs. Member. I would like to say to the House that this is the first time that the Member has spoken from the Senate. This made it possible to change the rules of procedure. Going twice. Oh, twice. And I wanted you to go for the first time... First time a woman. Okay, first time a female envoy. Mr Raś was... Mr Raś, good. Now the question to the government representative and invited guests: would Minister Warchoł like to take the floor on this bill? No. Thank you very much. Is the Attorney General of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish Nationals, Mr. Prosecutor Robert Kopydłowski, willing to take the floor on this bill? No. Are you Senator... I'm not pointing. Senator Kwiatkowski had some questions. Yes? No. I signed up for the discussion. Oh, for discussion. But I'd like to ask. I'm reporting for questioning. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u303	I'm autonomous, I have my will, I'll ask you a question. The question is addressed to an IPN representative. Do you have any analysis of the number of cases to which these provisions may possibly apply? I don't know if I can address a question to Minister Warchoł as a representative of the Minister of Justice. But of course, yes. I'd like to ask... Even as Minister of Justice, I took the initiative to annul military court judgments in Poland. These were mostly prison sentences from the 1940s and 1950s, often condemning to the death penalty or long-term imprisonment of underground activists. The particular perfidy of Stalin's justice system was that these trials and those convictions were often hidden under cover of other cases than those they dealt with, e.g. Those heroic soldiers of the underworld of independence were convicted of some criminal case that didn't actually happen. And I would like to ask if the Ministry continues its actions regarding the annulment of those judgments. It was a Benedictine job, because she simply required an analysis, in cooperation with the IPN, of the court files. I remember, I think I've sent over about 1,000 applications for annulment of those judgments. In total, we had suspicions of at least a few thousand such judgments, which were nominally in criminal cases, and yet, as we thought, were about punishing the activists of the independence opposition. Do you have any estimates about this case? How many of these judgments have been overturned by this point? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u304	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u305	Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. First of all, I would like to stress that we support this law in its entirety. It is a law needed to be able to judge those cases which, for various reasons, whether it be evidence or legal, could not be prosecuted. And to answer the senator's question directly, yes, of course, there are requests under the 1991 February Act for annulment of those outrageous judgments, and the cancellations are also directed. If it wasn't the basis for doing this communist crime... Of course, there are already cassations in those cases, because, as we know, the Attorney General does not have a deadline to direct the cassation in favour of the accused, so that there are a lot of cassations in cases from the 1950s, from the 1960s. The statistics will pass on, I think, to the Attorney General, the Minister will receive all this information. But I, on this occasion, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, would like to emphasise once again what we discussed at the committee meeting yesterday. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about communist crimes at the moment. This is essentially a different category than a crime that even constitutes a homicide, but is not a communist crime. Let me give you an example of the case of beating Grzegorz Przemyk. This case, thanks to the senator, thanks to Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, was brought before the Supreme Court in 2011. Minister, thank you for the cancellation. Unfortunately, it was dismissed as, of course, unfounded by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, regretting, has dismissed this deletion. He regretted that in free Poland for 27 years it was not possible to judge the merits of the plea made to the accused, and the judge simply said that this was a failure of the justice system. Why am I talking about this? To highlight the fact that in this case There's a need to stop this kind of crime. It was then that the Minister demanded that the communist crime happen. If it were the way the Minister described it in the cassation, then of course it would not be a problem, the perpetrators would be judged, and unfortunately the possibility of judging them was blocked by this clever escape, claiming that it was not a communist crime. And the second thing, very important. Why are we talking about the need to stop this kind of crime? December 70, the bloody pacification of workers' protests on the coast, and another sentence, this time the court of appeal. Judge Rapporteur, acquitted one of the defendants who later died in October In fact, the accused Cauldron, 81-year-old at the time, in 2014, emphasizes that he understands the sense of harming all those directly affected by the events of December 70, states that the initiation of the investigation was possible after 1989, but no crew in the Polish People's Republic was interested in this issue or in the return to the December case at all. And at this point there is also criticism of the justice system already in free Poland, unfortunately. That is why these cases cannot be delayed, even though they have been for so many years, we know that there are still legal problems, actual problems, new witnesses appear, new evidence is being gathered, prosecutors are still analyzing cases from those years, and that is why I ask the High House to support this law together with the amendments adopted yesterday by the committee. Thank you very much. And the answer to the question will be, I think, from the National Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u306	Thank you very much, Minister. There's also some questions for your D.A., isn't there? I have a question for the IPN. To the IPN. Come here, Mr. District Attorney.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u307	Can you give us any estimates as to how much this provision will need to be used?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The number of cases of communist crimes that are still waiting to be explained in a precise way cannot be estimated. This is due to the fact that the information about these crimes is derived from the archive documents collected in the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance, but also from the analysis of the files of proceedings for annulment of judgments handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State and for compensation, carried out on the basis of the February Act. So far, the prosecutors have examined nearly 28,000 files of such proceedings. From our current information... Mr. District Attorney, because we're sitting in a bit remotely, and the senators are in other rooms, please speak a little closer to the microphone. According to our current information, there are still about 12.5 thousand cases left to be analysed, but this number is increasing, as new applications for a judgment to be declared invalid and for damages are still being brought to the courts. The 2016 Act, the Law amending the National Remembrance Institute Act, transferred to the jurisdiction of the prosecutors of the Institute the directing of applications for recognition as invalid of the said decisions and the presence in court in these cases. In the course of these proceedings, we also obtain information about communist crimes. Finally, we have recently begun an analysis of the convictions of democratic opposition activists during the period of martial law, and there are several thousand of these judgments to be examined. So I can't tell you exactly how much it's gonna be. Surely these matters will be counted in thousands. Well, there are also occasional notifications from the victims themselves, notifications in cases that need to be clarified. In recent years, we have received a notice from the victim's son, who is already dead, of beating up his father during the December events of 1970, resulting in death a few weeks after that event. If, pursuant to the current law, the limitation period for the criminality of those offences expired on 1 August, the proceedings should be terminated without further factual findings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u309	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor. I'd like to ask Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is to your prosecutor at the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr. District Attorney, come again. Actually, there'll be two questions. One of them is just a formality. Do you also support these amendments? I understand that if the Ministry's representative supports them, you also support them. These amendments were tabled during the work of the Senate Committee. And the second question is about the basic issue. The IPN Act deals not only with communist crimes, but also, among others. in the following Article: 2a, crimes committed by members of Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich. The question is: is this statute of limitations that we are talking about here relate to the crimes referred to in the article. 2a? Don't you think you should do this art? Two refills? He has been cut by the Constitutional Tribunal and is now somewhat hulled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u311	There you go, Mr. District Attorney.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u312	Of course, the Institute of National Remembrance supports the draft amendment. As far as crimes committed by members of the Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich are concerned, in the vast majority, these crimes are classified as crimes against humanity without statute of limitations, as they were mass crimes directed against a particular group of people because of their nationality. If there were crimes in this group that could not be classified as crimes against humanity It's kind of hard for me to imagine, but sometimes life is a surprise. Unfortunately, we could not proceed in such a case, since the limitation period for criminal proceedings expired under the 1932 Penal Code. The Supreme Court and Constitutional Court rulings are uniform in this respect. In a situation where the limitation period has expired once, it cannot be restored. Before the expiry of the limitation period, the legislator may freely shape it, but if that period expires, it is not possible to restore the criminality and extend that period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u313	Thank you. Mr. Marshal... Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u314	What about the content of this article after the judgment of the Constitutional Court? Shouldn't that sentence be... This led to the removal of certain phrases from this article, and thus this article became in a sense hulled at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u315	I find it hard to agree that this recipe is hulled. The definition of Ukrainian nationalists is very broad and indeterminate, which is unacceptable in criminal law, while the definition of Ukrainian members collaborating with the Third Reich in my opinion covers both the members of the CNS-UPA itself and the SS-Galizien soldiers derived from this formation. There was still a question. I'm sorry to bother you so much. The geographical scope. One of the wordings was cut in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I don't remember that anymore. I'd have to look at the bill. The subject of today's meeting is primarily communist crimes, so I prepared myself for this problem... If I may, Mr. Marshal, I would ask for an extended written opinion both on this question to which You're right, you're right, I can't get an answer today and also on this limitation based on the 1932 Code. That's a very interesting question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u316	Mr. Senator, the question is very interesting, but you may be asking for answers to questions in writing, not legal opinions or some kind of study. I'm asking for answers. In the extended version In writing to the questions I have asked. Good. Senator Brejza is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? Yes. Who do you want to ask? A question to an IPN representative, an investigator's office, a prosecutor from the IPN. Good. You're the prosecutor. Please. The first question concerns the issue of materials secured in the beginning of 2016 at Czesław Kiszczak's house. I would like to ask for information on why the IPN has not published and has not published all the materials that have been secured at Czesław Kiszczak's house until today, despite the fact that the IPN Press Office in February 2016 informed the public that the packages contain all the materials secured during the search at Kiszczak's place of residence. The second question, which is closely related to this thread, is addressed to your prosecutor, a representative of the IPN investigation post. In the course of the annual exchange of letters with the State à about these materials which cannot see the daylight, you informed me that on 22 February 2016 the IPN investigative post passed on the so-called. information on the activities at the place of residence of Czesław Kiszczak and this information in writing was addressed to the prosecution general. Hence the question: what did this information contain? Did it also contain any attachments? And were there any documents secured in these annexes at Czesław Kiszczak's house? This is one block of questions. The second case concerns the story of equally shocking, revealed by the editor Robert Zieliński from TVN24. Namely, it turns out that in the proceedings conducted in 2007 concerning the introduction of martial law in Poland, from the indictment of several WRON creators, the main creator of martial law, the sacred memory of the present General Michał Janiszewski, the right hand of General Jaruzelski... Senator, I apologize to you very much, but I must remind you that the question should last no longer than a minute and should be linked to this item on the agenda. Absolutely these questions both regarding materials secured in the villa Kiszczak... Mr. Senator... ...and the removal of one of the names from the indictment of the greatest crime that was the introduction of martial law, well, they're closely linked to this point, Mr. Marshal. Just give me about 15 more seconds. Mr. Senator, at the moment we are in the section on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. If the D.A. wants to answer these questions, go ahead. But I want to remind you, Senator, what are the rules of procedure? Can I continue with the question? What? I want to ask you what the results of the proceedings conducted inside the IPN after TVN24's disclosure are... A statement... ...scandalized premature killing of General Michał Janiszewski. Because in 2007, IPN prosecutors found that the general was dead, he was not prosecuted. And the general introducing martial law in Poland died after 10 years. Has the internal procedure in IPN ended? Have you established the reasons why the prosecutor made such a reprehensible mistake?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u318	Mr. Senator, thank you. Mr. District Attorney, I've read the formula. If you want to answer these questions, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u319	Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I am unable to answer these questions for the reason that the documents secured at Czesław Kiszczak's house in accordance with the article. The 27th Act on the Institute of National Remembrance shall be incorporated into the Institute's archival stock. After the investigation, all these documents were placed at the disposal of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. And it is up to the president and the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance to decide to make these materials public. At least some of these materials are available online. I know this from my own experience, but not related to the work done, as the law enforcement commission has absolutely no influence on what materials will be published. As regards the letter from the Director-General of the Commission to the Prosecutor-General of February 2016 and the investigation procedure concerning the case of General Michał Janiszewski, these cases unfortunately fall outside the scope of my competence and I am not authorised to provide information in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u320	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej It's remote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Aleksander Pociej. He can't hear. Thank you, Mr. District Attorney... May I? Well, here you go, just tell me who the question will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I would just like to say that the questions you asked to Senator Brejza are absolutely relevant to this subject. We're dealing, in my opinion, with the cover-up of IPN's inadequacies... Mr. Senator, we will not deal with the Institute's report. Ask me a question. I would just like to say that Senator Breiza's questions were absolutely about what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u322	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. For the record, Senators Mieczysław Golba, Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Robert Mamytkow, Aleksander... No, Alexander Comfort's not. And Senator Halin Poor. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Alexander Pociej signed up for the vote. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank here for the amendment of these provisions. This proposal from the IPN has also been brought into the Senate, and we in the Legislative Commission have even started to prepare, in accordance with your proposal, an amendment to the legislation in this area. The Seym proved to be faster in this regard. Thank you and I congratulate Anita Czerwinska, thank you for taking this initiative faster than we have, because she is undoubtedly needed. Why is it undoubtedly necessary? I would like to show this to you on the example of the case of Grzegorz Przemyk, which is already mentioned here today, because unfortunately in this case, as in the lens, you can see why the justice system sometimes could not deal with these problems, despite the passage of time in these cases. I think this is an example where we can actually see the need to change the rules in this regard. Cassation to the Supreme Court on redemption due to the limitation of the case of a zombie accused of being beaten deadly in 1983 by Grzegorz Przemyk... In general, this case is probably one of the loudest crimes of the PRL's apparatus, unfortunately a crime which is difficult to say that it has been honestly assessed and summarised by the justice system. I'll remind you very briefly. On May 12, 1983, 19-year-old senior Grzegorz Przemyk and his colleague celebrated the graduation exam at the Castle Square in Warsaw. He's been detained by the militia. He had the bad luck of being the son of a well-known democratic opposition activist. The militia took him to the police station along with his colleague, where they beat him up, and then he died after two days in the hospital. Several militiamen of the Civic Militia participated in the beating, but some of them played a special role. In this group there was a zombie Ireneus K., who, as a colleague of Grzegorz Przemyk pointed out, beat him with a service baton. And all indications are that the consequences of this beating directly affected Grzegorz Przemyk's death. What was the story of Ireneus K. later? Ireneus K. worked for the police after 1989. In 1997 the Provincial Court in Warsaw acquitted K. of the charges and another of the militiamen In particular, a police officer from the police station. Arkadiusz D. sentenced to two years in prison. For this reason, he did not serve a day, because according to forensic psychiatrists, he was subjected to a psychic change that prevented him from being punished. Another militiaman, Kazimierz O., was sentenced to one and a half years in prison for attempting to destroy Przemek's case file in 1989. But So there's no doubt about it. In his appeal, he was acquitted in this case. Unfortunately, at the moment when we became interested in this case and when the appeal court again considered the appeal in this case... Specifically, it was 2004 and the case itself Okay, let's remind you. In the assessment of the justice system, the period of validity was already in January 2005. And, unfortunately, the court dismissed the trial of an ex-Zoman. He was sentenced at one point to eight years in prison, but not by a sentence of law, for his participation in this beating. The decision of the Court of Appeal in this regard was a final decision. The verdict was final. The moment we looked at this sentence, when we looked at this sentence, we could also look at the history of this whole case. In the case of Ireneus K., the courts once in the Polish People's Republic and four times after 1989 were releasing him from the blame in this case. The convicting verdicts overturned the higher courts, even as the court of first instance in this case, Ireneus K. wanted to convict. This case was statute-barred, as I said, in 2005. From this case as Minister of Justice, the Attorney General's Office led the cassation motion. Unfortunately, as the minister said, the Supreme Court did not take account of this cassation. And such cases if they remain unexplained in public space, especially with such a clear description of the situation Because Grzegorz Przemyk was detained with his colleague and we had quite a detailed description of the whole situation... These are situations that undermine citizens' confidence in the state if they are not summarised by the justice system. From the point of view of not only the fundamentals of the state, which must be based not only on the judicial assessment of the crime that is being committed, but also on such an elementary sense of honesty, this case should not be resolved as it has been. That is why I would absolutely, with all my power, support this revision of the law. I think it is necessary, necessary. And it is only sad to say that, despite the passing of more than 30 years since 1989, there are still things that we are returning to with shame. It is a shame, however, that the justice system failed to pass the test, which is to make a fair settlement of communist crimes. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u324	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor remotely from Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It is impossible to disagree with part of the statements made by Mr Kwiatkowski, the President, when he talks about the really exceptional weight of these crimes. However, listening to the justification for why, after 30 years of regaining independence, we should once again move the limitation periods, or actually delete them... I believe that these arguments are not based on the truth. We have heard this argument today: we must move this because during the political umbrella during the communist regime, this type of action could not be started. This is true, but that's why these limitation periods have been postponed since 1990, that's when we regained our independence. I don't understand, I don't understand how an institution such as the IPN, on which taxpayers are already putting nearly PLN 0.5 billion a year, where the entire investigative post is... We've had a comparison of how many cases prosecutors work in the D.A.'s office of other verticals. The comparison showed, as I recall, a ratio of probably 30:1. That means that in the IPN, prosecutors have, say, one investigation on, I don't know, 10, 20, maybe 30 in normal prosecutions. I don't understand why they haven't been able to handle it all for so many years. It's a cover, it's a cover for failure and helplessness. This novel introduces a very dangerous breach in our system of law. It is a breach which causes that certain crimes that are lighter than murder will not be statute-barred, as well as murders that are included in this category of communist crimes, will not be statute-barred, but the others, sometimes equally dramatic, also with a very strong genre weight, will be statute-barred. When I hear that this diversity is supposed to have a positive effect on my sense of justice in any way, I have great doubts because this amendment is a saying to our society and to everyone: the justice system after 1990 was still on some service. I strongly disagree with this thesis because I believe that the justice system I've expressed it many times. It was not, and above all, the courts and judges were not on any stripes, they applied the existing law. And I think that this is a very dangerous, very dangerous amendment that opens the door to differentiation in the future, according to my judgment completely unauthorized, the same categories of crime. I don't think that's part of our jurisdictional system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u326	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja, who will also connect with us remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to come back... And in the Senate, say those words about the indictment of martial law crimes. To me, it's incomprehensible how an indictment in the matter of martial law crimes could have evaporated the main creator and constructor of martial law. I mean, even the name... Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. We're asking you to turn on the camera. It's on. Is it? Technical Services... Now, you're here. We're very happy for you, Senator. Thank you very much. In 2007, in the formation of an indictment, IPN prosecutors came to the conclusion that the creator of WRON Because even the military name of the National Rescue Council was invented not by General Jaruzelski, but by General Michał Janiszewski, previously associated with the PRL's communications forces. He's dead, even though he was alive, but he didn't die until 2016. And when a case concerns a few key architects of martial law and one of these architects kills himself in an indictment, well, it's an extraordinary scandal to settle this biggest crime that was the introduction of martial law. In this case, I made a notification to the prosecutor's office in December 2019. Unfortunately, after a few months, the prosecution dropped the case, probably in February 2020. But I do know that there was an internal proceeding in the IPN to indicate how the prosecutor conducting this procedure in 2007 did not perform the activities that police from the ordinary police station did, i.e. how it happened that he did not check or wrongly verify whether the architect of martial law was dead. The second point I would also like to raise in this debate is the need to make the materials from the Polish People's Republic public, especially those materials which were secured in the villa in 2016 in the famous wardrobe of General Czesław Kiszczak. And that's a very disturbing signal, too, that even though it's been four years since the entrance to this villa, since the occupation, the acquisition of these documents... You could say there are documents of a better and worse sort. And some of these documents cannot see the light of day. It is not known why they are sorted out for documents which are public, which are almost immediately thrown into the reading room, after several dozen hours, and those documents which have been deeply embedded in some proceedings for several years. This should not be the case, these documents should be absolutely public. And it is also a pity that the IPN does not have such consequences to bring to light everything that General Czesław Kiszczak has gathered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u328	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. District Attorney! And so is Mrs. Member! It's a coincidence. Poland, as a country and a nation, unfortunately has an interesting history. For 100 years since independence... We were almost halfway through this period either non-sovereign or, if we can say so, partially sovereign. This means that most decisions, parts of them, or even any of them, were made by us as a country and as a nation. There are consequences to this. I call them gaps, breaks... Of course, these aren't random events. This is a gap in national memory. After all, our archives were deliberately destroyed and some facts from history were deliberately not allowed to become public facts. Every one of you heard of the Katyn crime, but there was a time when it was forbidden to speak about it publicly. These are gaps in the material layer. What were the war losses, the post-war losses, and the unenforced benefits of being crowded into the Eastern bloc? It's just right now that we're starting to evaluate it and evaluate it. These are gaps in the personal layer, losses in the personal layer. There are also gaps in the cultural layer. We've been looted, we've been looted, we've been looting works of art that we're struggling to recover now. Why am I taking the floor? Well, I do not agree with the basic point of Senator Pociej's statement here that the IPN was helpless. The noun "failure" also fell there. I protest against such a definition of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is the only institution that has these powers, i.e. the right and the obligation, and which properly fulfils the obligations imposed on it. This institution is slowly filling in gaps, losses, gaps in our historical memory. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I would ask you very much, Mrs. Member, if you'd be kind enough to keep your voice down, because you're disturbing the senator... As I said, the IPN as the main institution complements the loss of historical memory, not only in the factual layer, not only in field research, but also in historical query, also in educational matters, let's remember that it also deals with educational issues and documentation issues. I consider these words of criticism to be far from being criticised by this institution on the occasion of this law. We are really expanding this bill, extending the range of tools that the IPN will be able to use. I would like to thank the prosecutors, all those employed in the IPN, for their efforts so far, from identifying the bodies of our national heroes on the basis of genetic code, and ending up on educational issues. From this House, such thanks should sound to you. I hope that this law, as well as possible, will contribute to an even better, even more effective work. Let us remember that IPN prosecutors operate in completely different conditions, e.g. For gathering evidence than ordinary prosecutors in every plaintiff's office in our country. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u330	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Comfort. Five minutes, because that's the second voice in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, can you hear me? You can hear and see, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much. I don't agree. Not for the first time with Senator Czerwinski. It's not absolutely... it's not a matter of telling the truth that I.P.N. Attorneys have any more difficult tasks. They have a lot less cases, incomparably less cases, like I said. That's one thing. And secondly, in these ordinary prosecutorial cases, we are very often dealing with multiple more complex investigations. Take, for example. economic investigations, where several tens of thousands of Poles are sometimes injured. In the case of financial pyramids, things are so complicated that the justice system is unable to hire enough people to work. These are multifaceted investigations, sometimes carried out around the world, because our citizens' money is being taken abroad. Therefore, comparing the comfort of investigative work with IPN with such investigations, in which we deal with living people, with thousands of victims, is not allowed, Mr. Senator. I'll say it again. I believe that this bill is precisely an expression of helplessness and the result of a bad way of working. All these investigations should be over a long time ago. We're here, in this one piece of business. In my opinion, there is a political demand for this, and we provide IPN prosecutors with work comfort for the next several decades, several decades. Once again, the IPN has a budget of nearly PLN 500 million. He's been raised every year for five years, while other institutions that deal with what's happening to us every day have their funds cut off. If the courts, the ombudsman and other important institutions were to add money to protect us, I would probably not be taking the floor. But this is an institution that gets many times more money from other institutions, and it shows such results that there is a need for an amendment, which I repeat once again. He's doing a breach in our legal system. This breach is dangerous to me, and one day we'll have to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u332	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, he informs that the following senators made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes: Mieczysław Golba, Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Robert Mątkow. I also inform you that no legislative proposals have been submitted, and representatives of the government and the Institute of National Remembrance have undertaken to answer the questions of Senators Adam Szejnfeld, Alexander Swede... No, no, it's just... Oh, I'm sorry. It's about Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Jerzy Czerwiński. I'm so sorry about the mistake. So representatives of the government and IPN committed themselves to a written answer to the questions of Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Jerzy Czerwiński. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? Please check that all requests and submissions submitted have already been forwarded by the senators. I would like to inform you that all requests and submissions submitted have already been submitted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Sir... I'm sorry. I'm asking the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u333	I have a message to read. The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications for the Polish Tourist Bona Act will be held tomorrow, 2 July at 8 a.m. in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-01-senat-13-1.u334	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 36]]
