ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 9, - Senior policy - h.m. 9, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Health-- hour. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of this committee meeting, about an hour. 12.15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Culture and Media - hour 16. In addition, meetings of parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of the express road S12 - hour 9, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of the S10 Road - time 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Communication Solutions in Małopolska, in particular the Construction of the New Railway Line Podłęże - Szczyrzyc - Tymbark/Mszana Dolna and the Modernization of the Existing Railway Line No. 104 Chabówka - Nowy Sącz, as well as the Construction of the Highway from Brest to New Sącz and further to the State Border in Muszynka called. The jury will be here any minute. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Enterprise Development and Support - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: The fight against Censor at the University - hour. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Police - hour 14, - The Parliamentary Team - break up with the plastic. - h. 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of Protective Vaccines Children and Adults - h. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Troubleshooting Residents of Poland County-Gminne - h. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Territorial Defence Forces - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Opposite Parental Alienation - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Team on the Medical Rescue System - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Team on Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 18, - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of Railways as part of Network of Connections with Central Communication Port Warsaw - Ostrołęka - Łomża - Kolno - Pisz - Orzysz - Giżycko - so-called. Warsaw-Mazurskie Railways through Łomża - 3 p.m. 6:30. Such meetings will be held to form the following bilateral groups: - Polish-Spanish group - hour 12, - Polish-Taiwan Parliamentary Team - hour 12.20, - Polish-Vietnamese group - hour. 12.40, - Polish-Cyprian group - hour 12.55, - Polish-Egypian group - h.m. 13.10. - Poland-Finland group - hour 13.25, - Polish-Swedish group - hour 13.40, - Polish-Katarska group - hour 13.55, - Polish-Sambian group - h.m. 14.10. - Polish-Morokańska group - h.m. 14.25, - Polish-Ukrainian group - hour. 14.40, - Polish-Greek group - hour. 15, - Polish-Georgian group - h.m. 15.15, - group Poland - People's Republic of China - hour 3:30. All the meetings will be held in room 217 in the Senate building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u2	Thank you, sir. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 252. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to additionally refer the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If the motion for rejection is rejected, we will decide on the referral of this bill to the committee. The question was raised by Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u3	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government raised VAT on mineral water last year, but stubbornly claims that sugar tax is not another excuse to rob Poles, but to reduce the consumption of sugar to make Poles healthier. So I have a question: Prime Minister, if you believe that you have the right to dictate to Poles how to live to be healthier, then when are we supposed to expect a program: jogging+, which will rule the common, daily, mandatory running of Poles, of course with President Kaczyński at the head of the Peleton, what will certainly improve the health of Poles? And I say it with some fear, because there is such a law, it is called the Law of Lithuania, which says: don't joke loudly, because if they hear it, they will bring it in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] How funny you are.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u4	However, I would like you to bear in mind the words. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This draft law has a beautiful title: to amend certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. That's 20 pages. And on these 20 pages of healthy consumer choices, prevention, the fight against obesity, there's nothing. It's all in the explanatory memorandum. [[Applause]] That's not the bill. Just here. But what will apply as a law? Those 20 pages. Not the title, not the beautiful words of the Minister of Health, just the 20 pages. And these 20 pages, that's gross 41. new PiS tax. On what? Monkeys and drinks. Drinks made of what? They're poaching Poles. Drinks made from Polish apples, from Polish raspberries, from Polish strawberries. [[Applause]] Disgraceful. After all, this project is another theft of PLN 3 billion from Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u6	Thank you, sir. And one last question, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen... Ladies and gentlemen! But I ask you to remain calm. We asked you yesterday, too. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We're talking about a fee, not a tax... Member, wait a minute. These are European standards, as I said yesterday. European countries introduce these fees because there is a great risk of civilizational diseases. A disease such as diabetes simply brings down. I bring it up and ask you, Minister: What does it look like when it comes to statistics, the number of diseases currently in relation to the number of diseases in the 1990s? What are Poland's standards and what are the European countries? Ladies and gentlemen, together let us take care of the health of Poles. Thank you. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u8	Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Each of you has the right to ask a question, but please let the room, however... You want to ruin the farmers. Mr President, please don't discuss this, okay? Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But there is no discussion from this place, sir, only from the speaker. I tried yesterday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u9	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! This tax and above all the tax on monkeys, which at the moment are the reason why young people are getting drunker, is simply a valid tax. [[Applause]] As far as the Left is concerned, we will be in favour of bringing this project to committee, but we will, of course, want to improve this bill, for example, in terms of the fact that the advertising tax for supplements has suddenly disappeared from it. We don't know how this happened, we'll explain it. But we are really asking here for a substantive discussion on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u10	Thank you, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u11	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would warn against the fear of sending this project to work in committee because, ladies and gentlemen, the fee will not be covered by what you are most interested in, or beet juice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u12	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 210 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 155 was for, against - 264, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We will now proceed with the decision to refer the bill to the committee. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the draft law be sent to the Health Committee for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this draft law in addition to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has accepted the proposal for additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, will be put to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. There was an objection. Who's calling him? Us. There's an objection. Good. About what? Is this an objection to the proposal to add this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, or does it concern the Committee on Health? I want him on the committee. Objection to objection. To the finance committee. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such conclusion. You've heard very well what I've read. It is the Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. So I ask, What is the objection? There's no objection. Thank you. [[Applause]] We don't know. Arthur Dziambor, the Confederation, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you're rushing it like you think it burns calories. I wanted to say that you also fight Polish. Mr Łukasz Schreiber said yesterday: sugar tax is an inappropriate name. It's a fee of some kind, but it's not about taxes to take somebody's money... Danina. ...only about the health of Poles. We try to reduce taxes as much as possible. This is a quote from your speech. Congratulations. It's like this: Tax is not a tax, it's a fee. You're gonna have to learn. It's time to learn, isn't it? PiS doesn't raise or introduce taxes... It's about time. ...only charges. It's time to learn. Besides, it's for our own good. They also try to lower taxes, but they don't do well. They're incredibly ineffective. You disappoint all Poles. You have zero effectiveness in tax reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sugar tax. I love candy. I'll take this case personally. I'm waiting for the rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u14	Thank you, sir. The question was asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! O saints of naivety! So what's really gonna apply? If the PiS government wants to accomplish all that the Minister is saying, what is included here, wants to fight obesity, why doesn't it do what it says in the explanatory memorandum? Why doesn't he stop drinking monkeys if he wants to fight alcoholism and drink little monkeys? The point is that they are expensive and that Poles pay more for them, but they drink a lot. [[Applause]] If you want to fight obesity and the cause of obesity, which is sugar... They're poaching Poles. ...then why do you tax drinks from Polish apples and strawberries instead of sugar? It's just that your intentions are dishonest. Disgraceful! It's just that your intentions are dishonest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u16	Thank you, sir. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, it happens, for all of you, that the day of economic freedom under the rule of law and justice is the fastest, much faster, one month faster than under the rule of the Platform. [[Applause]] PCK. As a matter of fact, given this logic, we should also withdraw from taxation... How's the PC? ...cigarettes or alcohol. The only problem is that, and that's what I'm saying to all those lovers of freedom, that later all these people go to public health service and are supposed to be treated for everyone's money, of course. Well, that's actually logic. And as for the Confederate Member who called me out, he said recently here that we wouldn't be taxing jogging. That's right. And that money goes to sports for kids, schools, sports infrastructure. [[Applause]] For propaganda. And I have a proposition. In fact, instead of drinking sweetened drinks, I encourage this jogging. And a PCK apple for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But that can be corrected. He misunderstood.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u18	There you go, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! To some extent, this project looks like a gift to multinational large beverage companies at the expense of native and often family producers with decades of tradition. That's not true! The Act contains a number of defective solutions concerning the toll collection system, including rules allowing the possibility of avoiding the charge by large commercial networks, ordering directly from producers of beverages so-called. brands of their own. There is a serious gap in the proposed toll collection system, causing the charge not to be subject to imported drinks. We therefore, of course, request that this be made to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u20	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the motion for additional referral of the bill to the committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the draft Law 210 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 207 was for, 227 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, for the Sejm to set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be examined today. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection! We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal that the Sejm should set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be dealt with today will want to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against - 202, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 252). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 252, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 423 was for, 2 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 23 hours 9 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Is Mr Trepka in the room? I'm here, Marshal. In that case, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u21	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In July 2019 the Sejm adopted the Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist, i.e. so-called. 500+ for disabled people. Benefits for such persons have been paid since October ub. The purpose of the Act is to provide additional financial support to the most deprived persons in the form of a supplementary benefit of PLN 500. due to increased costs related to care, rehabilitation and medical care. The solution proposed by the Government of Law and Justice is a systemic rather than a one-off solution. Its aim is to improve the situation of people unable to live independently in the long term. Dear Minister, I would like to ask how many people in 2019 have benefited from an additional benefit of 500+ for people with disabilities unable to live independently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u22	Thank you very much for asking the question. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Paweł Wdzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll make a comment first. Not on the subject, but I think once the Accessibility Act is fully operational, this room will be in big trouble. In answer to the question concerning the benefit of 500+, I would like to say that all pension bodies, namely ZUS, KRUS, MMA Pension Plant, Military Pension Offices and Prison Service Pension Office, have accepted 672 700 applications for this supplementary benefit, of which 469 275 in ZUS and 201 thousand in ZUS. KRUS. The rest are completely insignificant figures on the scale of the whole project. Interestingly, the applications submitted by women represented 63% and by men 37%. As far as age structure is concerned, because this also shows the dynamics of this process, 37% people over 75 years of age and 27% was between the ages of 60 and 75 years of age, i.e. a total of 64% They were people over the age of 60. 30% were people aged 26 and only 6% were people aged 18 and 25. What is important is that - we are about to come up with questions that may raise questions, and not everyone will be able to ask them - 31% those applications were applications which did not require additional standing on the medical committee, as they also contained a judgment on incapacity for self-existence. Other proposals, i.e. 69% This ruling did not contain, which means that these people had to stand on committee so that they could determine this inability to exist on their own. The pension authorities issued 368 437 decisions on all these applications, of which 40 694 were negative decisions. In fact, there are two main reasons for refusal: the lack of incapacity for self-existence, i.e. 75% those rejected applications and exceeding the criterion of PLN 1600, i.e. 25% conclusions. The other numbers are already two digits in quantities, so I'm not going to talk about it. And now, how many benefits were paid last year? The pension authorities paid 283 171 benefits, as many people received this benefit, of which 181 900 from the Social Security Office. If this is interesting for you, I can also tell you what it looked like in other pension bodies. Monthly costs of supplementary benefit payments for persons unable to self-exist by bodies of ZUS, KRUS, etc. amounted to: in October - 33 643 thousand. with peas, November - 120 717 thousand, in December - 199 779 thousand. The total cost of payments last year is 354 140 thousand. For the current year, in the draft financial plan for 2020 the amount planned for the payment of the benefit is 4 million 540... 4 billion - I improve so that then there is no: 4543 million PLN. In fact, these are the main things I want to say. Oh, I take it it's time, right? Continue, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: I just want to say so much in the context of such voices that appear, about robbing people with disabilities, that, first of all, I am a man who, as some people have noticed, is a disabled person. I don't get benefits, but mostly for ethical reasons. On the other hand, I wouldn't allow the situation or be a minister if there was any stealing. This amount of 4543 million is almost 10 times higher than the original amount of the Solidarity Fund, so there is no question of making the situation of people with disabilities worse. There is really no way, and everyone who thinks otherwise, I invite you to make a substantive conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u24	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Skwarek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My additional question is very simple. I would like to ask, because very often people with disabilities come to our parliamentary offices to remind them of the basic criteria that must be met in order to obtain the benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u26	This witness, as it probably sounded from my previous statement, is addressed to people who have a ruling on the so-called. total inability to exist alone. I will admit that this is a very unfortunate formulation, and I hope that in the near future, when we deal with the reform of the caselaw system, such statements, which neither comply with the spirit of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities nor respect the dignity of the disabled person, will disappear. But that's how it works right now. This is a ruling which is issued by ZUS committees or comparable ones, i.e. KRUS committees, etc. There are several such institutions. Thus, if a person has only a judgment of a significant degree of disability, it is not sufficient and must be supplemented by such a judgment of incapacity for self-existence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u27	Thank you very much to the Minister for his response. The next question will be asked by Members Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Sławomir Nitras, Marek Sowa, Katarzyna Maria Piekarska and Barbara Nowack from the Civic Coalition, on the failure of the International Auschwitz Council for two years - to the President of the Council of Ministers. The Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, Mr Paweł Szrot, will answer the question. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In May 2018, the term of office of one of the most important institutions of Polish-Jewish dialogue expired and, what is much to say here, one of the pillars of such soft force of the Polish state, i.e. the International Auschwitz Council. In its last composition were among others. Director of Yad Vashem Institute, Director of the Holocaust Museum, Chairman of the American Jewish Committee, Chairman of the World Jewish Congress, survivors, prominent representatives of science and culture. The new council has not been appointed by the Prime Minister in almost two years. The former president and the members of the Council did not give any information about her further fate. Recent events around the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, which was organized by the Yad Vashem Foundation in Jerusalem, revealed the absolute helplessness of Polish diplomacy. The main actor of this celebration, I remind you, was the president of Russia Vladimir Putin. After all, these celebrations later became an excuse for the propaganda aggression of Russia on Poland, which has so far continued. The symbol of this helplessness was the absence of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda during these celebrations in Jerusalem. There's not enough soft force. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to explain the reasons for his failure to appoint a council. Was this omission a result of negligence, an official mess, or on the contrary, a political thought behind it? And if so, what is it? Tertium non datur - either a mess or a politician, there's no third way. I look forward to explaining why the Prime Minister killed one of the most important institutions in Poland's field of influence regarding a key problem such as Polish-Jewish relations and whether the Prime Minister feels that he is responsible for the crisis resulted in the celebration of the liberation (Dwonek) of the Oświęcim camp. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u29	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Paul Szrot to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! It should start with the fact that, yes, the term of office of the Council expired in 2018. I would like to stress that the International Auschwitz Council is the consultative and advisory body of the President of the Council of Ministers and it is up to the President of the Council of Ministers to what speed, at which level and at what time it will be set up. And he makes his own decisions. Mr. Speaker! The establishment of such a council requires many detailed, discreet actions by the Polish government, all the more so since this board, as you know it, consists of both the national, Polish and foreign components. I do not prejudice this - the council, yes, could have played a role in events connected with the Yad Vashem conference, but I would absolutely not agree with the diagnosis that you presented from this stand, that these events would indicate the supposed helplessness of the Polish government. On the contrary, these events and their final tone reflected the strength of the Polish government and the thoughtful, planned actions which had achieved the result. What about an example? And the result is the following fact: the Polish historical narrative, beneficial for the Polish nation, for the Republic, for the Polish Underground State authorities, for the soldiers of the Polish underground, broke through both in the narration... And we're in some kind of war? ...world media, as well as the opinions of experts and historians, experts from World War II and the Holocaust. Also in the opinions and assessments of the majority of Jewish community representatives both in Israel and in the United States and in other countries. And this is the success of Polish diplomacy. Mr President, you said that the symbol of this helplessness was the absence of the President. Mr. President's absence was a result of thoughtful actions... As a result... ...was a clear position that was properly read... Ha, ha, ha. ... practically everywhere. And I am extremely surprised that you read this in a different way than it is obvious to the public in Poland as well as to the world public. This is incomprehensible. You were to say that in this case tertium non datur, i.e. negligence or conscious desire to depreciate this body. In this case, of course, tertium est datur. And I repeat: this is about many detailed arrangements, actions, partly backstage, this is about diplomatic cuisine. It's a disaster. And here I would like to say that there are circumstances that allow us to hope that this advice will be called in the near future. Please accept such an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u32	Minister, you answer to the Polish Parliament, so there is no room for secrets here. So tell us what your plans are, what this correction is to be, what goals you intend to achieve and what methods you intend to achieve. Because some terrible anti-Jewish phobia comes out of that statement. This is not just about the Oświęcim advice, which, as Mr Sienkiewicz said, was a certain level of cooperation, a soft policy. I don't think you understand the words "soft politics," you understand the words "hammer," "scissors," "suits," not something that is basically sublime." It's not just advice. This fits into a series of Polish-Jewish relations. After all, you say that the work is going on and that you can call anytime you want. The same with the director of the Polin museum - he can also set up whenever he wants, only he is not there. He won the contest and he's gone. These are openly anti-Jewish actions. The same goes for IPN. After all, Professor Kurtyk signed an IPN cooperation agreement in 2009... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, 10 seconds. ...from the Holocaust Museum in Washington. You have terminated this agreement, you have not extended it, and you have said that you will not pass the documents you have on to the Jewish community. Are you afraid of something? You're shutting yourself out? You guys gonna build an autarium or something? You're not gonna let scientists from all over the world use the IPN database? Then why did the IPN come into being? To shut it down, to concrete it? This is the question of what results you want to achieve. Because so far your entire policy in Polish-Jewish relations lies and disgraces us all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u33	The Minister will respond. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I just heard that my speech shows a scary anti-Jewish phobia. I expect you to mention concrete examples of anti-Jewish phobias in my statement... If you'll allow me, I'd love to. ...or you're going to apologize to me, because it's a personal insult to me that you've made such accusations without providing any justification. Answer the question. It is the opposite - I have spoken a lot here about the effects that the Polish Government has achieved, leading its policy in the form and mode it has adopted. These effects are such that a large proportion of Jewish communities in both Israel, Poland and the United States and other parts of the world support the historical narrative, which, of course, is the truth of which the Polish government He presented many times in various forums. Not at all about it. I expect an apology, sir. Thank you very much. And I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question concerns the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk. Will the marshal allow me? It is addressed to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, and this question will be asked by Mr Marek Rutka from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! By decision of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping after 64 years of operation on 1 April this year. The Maritime Office in Słupsk will be wound up. However, on 1 April for about 300 employees of the maritime office will not be laughing. The Maritime Office in Słupsk, managing a 165-kilometer section of the Polish coast, from Kołobrzeg to Head, will be distributed between the Maritime Office in Gdynia and the Maritime Office in Szczecin. This decision was made contrary to the position of local authorities, among others. President Słupsk or Mayor Ustka, contrary to the employees of the Maritime Office, despite the protests of the company's union organisation. The opinion of the union was completely disregarded, as was the opinion of the nationwide union of officers and sailors. After all, it is contrary to the previous position of the government itself and the position of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who assured a few years ago: It is necessary that people do not have to leave small towns and villages, especially abroad. We want them to stay here and work for Poland. I would like to quote a passage from the letter that Paweł Szrot, present today, the Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, addressed to Ms Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping: Attention is drawn to the lack of detailed justification for the proposed abolition of the Maritime Office in Słupsk. The statement in the explanatory memorandum that the change will contribute to a more efficient and more efficient implementation of the tasks of the maritime administration seems insufficient with regard to the planned major reorganisation of the field structure of the state administration. Therefore, please answer the questions: Will any of the currently employed persons lose their jobs as a result of the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk? Second: Will the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk adversely affect the economic development of the region and have the Ministry carried out appropriate analyses of the situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What was the socio-economic basis for the decision to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk? Finally: What is dictated by the recent employment in the Gdynia Maritime Office as Deputy Director of Maritime Inspection, Mr Maciej Jeleniewski, a person who in November Ub. R. was dismissed from the position of Deputy Director for Maritime Inspection in Słupsk? And it was a person who dealt with investments, which in the report NIK criticized very strongly. And this report, let me remind you, was one of the grounds for the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk. Last one: Has the decision of the Ministry been consulted with trade unions, representatives of social organisations and local government? I'm asking for a written reply at the same time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u37	Thank you very much. The answer will be given to Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, from 1 April the Maritime Authority in Słupsk will operate in a different dimension, in a different organisational structure. As we have written back many times, this is also in the justification for this decision, the motivation was the efficiency and economics of public spending, especially in this administrative part concerning large projects, large tenders and large investments. In our assessment, the implementation of these large and extremely important tasks, which stand not only before this maritime office, but also before the maritime administration in general, will be possible, better in the two structures connected strictly with the administrative structure broken down by the Pomeranian and Western Pomeranian voivodeship. At the same time, it is also unfounded to scare workers, because, to a large extent, these concerns and concerns that arose locally were actually due to political actions and political reasons for causing these concerns. They weren't primal, they were secondary. They're absolutely unwarranted. None of the employees, and we have stressed this repeatedly and today we stress, will not lose their jobs. On 29 January, the Minister met with the workers. Changing this organisational structure absolutely does not mean that we are abandoning investment in this area, but on the contrary, we want to implement it better, faster, more efficient in terms of these large organisational structures. This is the model we introduced at IWT. He worked for us, had a positive impact. We also managed to raise salaries, especially in these key verticals, so this optimization is also related here. I would absolutely not tie the second part of the statement made by the Member to some personal motive, to the transfer of a worker or a director. These are two absolutely unrelated cases at all. The NIK report you mentioned was also one of the motivations for making such a decision and making a new division in the new structure. Mr. Director meets all the requirements. The decision was based on his previous experience, competence and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u39	Thank you very much. Would you like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask an additional question? Yeah, I'll take it. I don't think so. In that case...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u40	Yes, I have a question. The Minister said this: the maritime office will operate in a different form. Does that mean it's gonna work? It's hard to call liquidation another form, that's liquidation. The answer of the Minister concerning Mr Maciej Jeleniewski is, as far as I am concerned, insufficient. First he was dismissed and now promoted, moreover, on the website of the Maritime Office in Słupsk there is information that he is still Vice-Director of Maritime Inspection in Słupsk. At the same time, there is information on the website of the Maritime Office in Gdynia, with its photograph that it is the Deputy Director of Maritime Inspection. Does he work in two places at the same time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u41	I understand that we are not going to be dealing with a particular person in the Parliament right now and analyzing his CV and the path of transferring him to the various offices. I don't think the House is doing this. It was chosen on the basis of experience and education, in accordance with criteria and procedures. That is all I can tell you today. I will return to the matter of office, because the Member has raised it. We are talking about abolishing the office, which does not mean in any way abolishing the maritime administration. We're not saying there's gonna be a gap in Pomerania right now. It's just a two-office division. The tasks and the employees stay. As for the various delegates, we have not yet made this decision. It is undertaken in dialogue with workers, which we started on 29 January, at the first meeting to diagnose what solutions will be optimal. No one's gonna lose their jobs. Słupsk and the Pomerania area will not be left unprotected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u42	I'm sorry, I'm still not satisfied. My question was: Does Mr Maciej Jeleniewski work in two places at the same time? Can you tell me where he works? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: I am unable to give you this information. I understand, thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u43	Thank you very much. MEPs Krzysztof Gadowski, Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Wojciech Saluga and Marek Owa will ask a question about the import of coal into Poland by companies of the State Treasury. The answer will be given to Mr Adam Gawada, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. He's not here. We're waiting for the minister. Then we'll wait. That's a technical break. When the Minister arrives, we will resume the sitting. Wait a minute. Since Mr Gonciusz is in the Chamber, perhaps he could ask a question, and the current Minister would answer and in this way we would not waste time. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Since we agree, then we very much ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to ask questions about the risk of drought.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u44	Dear Marshal, Minister! There has been a trend in recent months. The point is that we are dealing with relatively low precipitation levels. This situation is a threat to us, as it can contribute to possible drought, which will have the strongest impact on us for decades. For this reason, we should prepare ourselves well and effectively for possible drought. The first thought, which in such a case could be one of the auxiliary tools, is the level of water retention in Poland. This indicator is 6.5% and undoubtedly requires an increase. It also seems necessary to prepare individual and collective programmes that could counteract possible droughts. I would therefore like to ask the Minister and ask for an answer on what measures the Ministry plans to take in order to reduce or minimise the risk of drought caused by low precipitation in Poland. Thank you. Make a flood.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u45	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Anna Moscow to respond. We're waiting for the flood.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for that question. It is difficult to answer them only from a departmental perspective, because the subject of drought or water management is a topic for the whole government, various resorts and at different levels in various ministries. Of course, the phenomenon of drought is not new in Poland, it occurs cyclically about every 4 and every 6 years. The Member mentioned that the flood also appears, that is, of course, true. What is today's problem, on the other hand, is the violence of these phenomena, both in terms of drought and in terms of floods. Indeed, the previous year was the year of the highest temperature since 1951. At the same time, we have been cutting our thermal winter time by a month since 1951, and we have been increasing the time of summer, and it is really gradually. Above all, the violence of these phenomena is difficult for us. Of course, it is true that we have little water in Poland. We are about 1600 m2 per capita when it is normally 2 000 in Europe. The maximum European levels, especially Scandinavian ones, are 4.5. This, on the other hand, is not the biggest challenge. The biggest challenge for us is the question the retention of water, that is, the retention that you mentioned, and that is what we are focusing on in our actions. At the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Rural Development Programme deals with microretention, i.e. widely understood irrigation systems through small tanks and deep-sea wells. It was launched for farmers a grant scheme of up to 100,000, i.e. an amount for small and large farmers, 50 funding depending on the category, whether it's an experienced farmer or a young beginner. This program is already running. It's at the microretency level. The actions at the level of small, medium and high retention are carried out by the Polish Waters and our Ministry. Maybe I can present them in a dimension that's being done and what's going to be done in far-reaching predictions. In the first place, a programme is being developed to counter the effects of drought and a programme to combat water scarcity. These two programmes want to integrate into one large programme this year. They are run in parallel by us and by the Polish Waters. What is and will be done in this program is multi-track activities. Among other things, there is a path of renaissance of rivers and wetlands with WWF. We're also doing projects to repair mucus and jazz to increase the amount of water, and that's something that's and will be done in all these programs. At the same time, there is a whole package of foresting, woodworking, reconstruction of stands, also restoration of breeding ponds, implementation of urban adaptation plans and all that is connected with retention in cities - it is above all the Ministry of Climate. Small tanks and big tanks. The large tanks have now completed Świnna Poręba, we are building the Monastery Wielwieś, Kęty - Myscowa. There are 94 large investments in the new "Stop Drought" programme! and the programme against water scarcity by 2027, i.e. about 10 billion plus a whole package of investments notified by local authorities. They are still notified until 15 February when the consultation in the programme will be closed. These are comprehensive actions, because in our sense only taking action at every level, from micro- to small to small to high retention, will allow us to achieve the effect of maximum water retention. We're now retorting, especially by high tank retention, 6.5%. , we can lead to 15, which will actually allow us to get above the European average, but also exploit the maximum potential we have in Poland. Of course, the actions of microretency are very important, and without high retention, we will not be able to achieve this in large multi-purpose tanks. We In water management, we have applied an integrated approach, i.e. we do not look at investments in water management through the prism, whether it's just floods, whether it's droughts or transport functions, only in terms of integration of all these objectives, so that one investment, for example. Wolkówka, Jamno or other famous investments carried out in Poland, did not really disrupt the water balance, but used to optimize these resources and at the same time protected us from flooding and drought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u47	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by the Member in a moment, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u48	In my additional question, I would like to ask you if the Ministry will try to implement the solutions presented using external means, e.g. originating in the European Union, whether such measures are or will first indicate the Union's increased needs in this area and the need to increase its financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u49	The investments I have mentioned are already partly implemented with the use of the operational programme, in particular the Infrastructure and Environment Programme or the Rural Development Programme. These are European programmes. But these investments are also included in regional operational programmes. As far as the new perspective is concerned, of course, it is not mature enough to say exactly what will be possible. Our ambition and the subject of intensive action within the European Union is to put as much water as possible in the highest possible amounts of water-related areas. Of course, we are in contact at the level of the European Union with a big discussion about the fact that this is interference in the hydromorphology of rivers, including flood prevention projects, which, of course, seems incomprehensible, while we have the ambition to have as much money as possible in this area, in the wider water economy, without distinguishing between what function, in this new perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u50	I'm sorry. I have a question. Isn't the cause of drought caused by flood shafts, so that instead of pouring out, spilling on the ground, it flows to the sea? Aren't shafts the cause of drought? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Quite bold thesis, Mr.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u51	I think, Minister, that you know very well the answer to this question. It was a little... I don't know. No?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u52	I would really agree with you that there have been flood-related investments in the past, which these water-related relationships may interfere with - I am talking about the Wilkówk reservoir, about Jamna - but there is no web page that could say more about it... Yes, sir. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: ...because Mr Gawłowski is now in the second Chamber, and he probably has much more knowledge of these investments than I do. However, there were such investments, which is why I talked about an integrated approach when investing in the water economy, so as not to really look at the source of funding - since the Union, for example. finance flood-related investments, we implement flood-related investments and we do not look at other aspects. This is the change in approach that we are making to look at every investment in terms of many aspects, many goals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. Since Minister Adam Gawęda has already reached us, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Mr Piotr Nowak, Mr Wojciech Saluga and Mr Marek Owa can ask their question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u54	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Not long ago, on the banners of Law and Justice, there was a slogan that Polish energy security would be based on coal originating in Poland. In 2015 in the market in Ruda Śląska the president, future Minister of Energy and future Deputy Minister of Energy from Rudy Śląska shouted: enough coal from Russia, we will stop this! What did it look like in the last few years? Disgraceful! 2016 - 8.5 ml t we import, in 2017 it is over 12 million t, in 2018 it is already peaks, beyond all borders - 19.5 million t, in 2019 for 11 months we have almost 11 million t. Most of this coal comes from Russia, almost 70 million t. In 2018, it was almost 14 million tons. That's almost 50%. what the Polish Górnicza Group produces, the largest Polish mining group employing 42 thousand. persons. Turns out that's not all. Coal from abroad is flooding Poland. There are almost 14 million tons of Polish coal in the fields of energy as well as in the mines. According to trade unionists, it is said that one of the energy groups, which is involved in the Polish Mining Group, brings coal, brought it almost 5 million tons, as much as it lies under mines. As the media reported recently, companies with the State Treasury not only deal with imports, they also deal with distribution. We are talking about PKN Orlen, we are also talking about Poczta Polska. For 4 years (the bell) we import more and more coal into Poland. It is surprising that the government cannot even deal with the companies of the State Treasury that import this coal. Minister! Today we're asking you questions. What companies of the State Treasury have brought coal to Poland for the last 4 years? How much of this coal did they bring? Where'd that coal go? Not long ago, we heard from government representatives that State Treasury companies did not import coal at all, but a few days ago the Minister of State Assets made it clear that State Treasury companies would no longer import coal. What's the truth, Minister? We demand that information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u55	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Indeed, the imports observed over the past years, which have grown quite significant in recent years, are decreasing. It's an undeniable fact. In the last year, in 2019, the decline is noticeable. From the collected, aggregated most up-to-date information for the last year, this reduction is almost 2,600 thousand. a. Of course, the question addressed today is indeed serious, because we have all noticed growing imports, but it is also worth recalling today the reason that in these years, mainly in the years 2017 and 2018, this import has grown dynamically. All those involved in processes and management in the mining sector, in other sectors as well, but in particular, know that investment processes, processes for making new operating fields available, high-performance walls are investment processes that deliver results in a perspective of 2, 3, and sometimes even 4 years. We also remember this very difficult period - I worked in one of the companies, in the years 2014 and 2015 - when the largest companies fell into a serious crisis, not only financial, but also due to the lack of possibility of smooth functioning. At that time, investment processes were indeed significantly reduced. This in later years led to a real shortage of coal in our market. It is not my role, nor do I want to develop it here at the moment, because we know very well that mining processes are processes for which since 1990 there have been periods of good financial performance and high sales, but there have also been difficult periods in which coal was difficult to sell, its price has been very low. Knowing this today and answering these questions directly here, I will say again: indeed, the high imports of coal that have accompanied us in recent years were the result of the underinvestment of major mining companies - I have already pointed out the reasons - but it is noticeable that these imports are falling and in 2019 this decrease was, as I have already said, 2,600 thousand. a. Coal imports to Poland in 2019 amounted to a total of 16.7 million tons, of which 13.2 million tons of coal, while coke coal 3.5 million tons. The main direction from which coal is imported remains the Russian Federation, from which a total of 10.8 million tons were imported in 2019, corresponding to a decrease in imports year to year by 2.5 million tons from the Russian direction, from the Russian Federation. Companies of the Treasury or companies in which the Treasury holds shares also imported coal to Poland in 2019 due to restrictions arising from the information obligations of listed companies, as well as regarding public statistics regulations. Carbon import information may only be made available in aggregate form. I also want to emphasize that quite strongly. The total amount of energy coal imported to Poland by the State Treasury companies or companies in which the State Treasury holds shares amounted to slightly above 4 million tons. More than 9 million tons of energy coal were imported to Poland through private entities and these are management decisions of these private entities. According to statistical information prepared in the framework of the statistical programme, public statistics go to professional and industrial energy about 17% imports, i.e. around 2.8 million tons. Brown coal is not imported into energy. Last year 97% of Polish mines went to professional and industrial energy. hard coal and brown coal. This is very important information, because this indicates that indeed the main volume of coal directed to professional energy comes from our mines, from companies of the State Treasury. It should be noted that in previous years there has been a decrease in the extraction of indigenous coal. This was the reason that a significant part of this raw material had to be contracted and imported from the outside. It is also worth pointing out some trends which show that there is still a high demand for hard coal in Poland, mainly in households it is used. We know perfectly well that new fifth-class boilers fulfilling these parameters are used in many households. In 2017, after stabilising the situation in the industry, investment processes could be started, which are also directed towards improving the quality of coal, directing this raw material in a structured manner also to those customers who use high efficiency boilers (Bells) and with good parameters that do not cause low emission pollution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u57	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Wojciech Saluga.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u58	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Prime Minister of your government... The Polish government. ...and then the minister from Rudy Śląska repeatedly in Silesia said that mining got out of its knees, that already all the problems - as soon as you came to power - will be solved, and responsible for the bad state of mining were the governments of Ewa Kopacz and the previous ones. But this speech confirms that mining is still on its knees, and those words were empty words. Why is it that, Minister, despite the demand for coal, its extraction is falling? Why are we still importing coal from abroad despite thousands of tons of coal? And it is the companies of the Treasury that bring just as much as they are in the jackpots. Why, for example? The Tauron Group mines are unable to deliver coal to their own power plants? How do you explain that Tauron Extraction is on the verge of bankruptcy, even though it is a coal supplier to a state-owned power plant? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The NIK report exposed the situation. You can't get the coal out. You can't manage mining. We import smog from the east, and we add it to the mines. Is that how we get off our knees? Shame on you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u59	I ask the Minister to answer an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In my speech, I touched the facts. I did not want to get into a polemic tone, but with this question, perhaps he did not provoke me as much as he did to quote the facts. In 2015, when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party ruled in Poland, all companies, not one, not two, were on the verge of bankruptcy. They were threatened by liquidation and insolvency proceedings. We, the Government of Law and Justice, participated in the opening audit at the time, which was the beginning of 2016, led us to avoid the insolvency process. All the companies have undergone this very difficult period of defence - I apologize for this colloquialism, but this is what happened - and we have led to the fact that today they are financially stable. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, managed in a modern way, created a fund before such periods as today. The times of the previous government, the Civic Platform government, and mining managed PSL, in recent years the Civic Platform, are times in which no such instruments have even been proposed, not to mention their implementation. Not one such financial protection instrument has been introduced. It was our courage that we have audited all companies, showed the real state, the terrible state of Polish mining, and carried out the repair process. Indeed, this process has led to the fact that no company has been liquidated and that we are maintaining jobs. That's also what we declared. This is not easy, because in mining operations you need to look for the best solutions, including those that do not significantly affect the surface, so that residents who live in mining areas can also be provided with normal, decent housing, development and implementation of business directions. Tauron Extraction has prepared a repair process and is implementing a recovery plan. Indeed, it is a very difficult company, because it was previously very uncapitalised. The investments related to the construction of the shaft are very late and we are catching up today. This is not an easy or quick process. Anyone who is connected with the mining industry knows that the processes of construction of the shaft, construction of major excavations, excavations, making available the excavations, are long-term processes, in this perspective at least six to seven years old. That's why we're making up for it. I want to emphasize this strongly, in fact (the bell) imports are decreasing, that's very good. The mining potential is increasingly better suited to the needs of professional energy and our market. These are our main tasks, and the most important thing is to keep jobs and the stability of all companies and mines. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] PiS, it was PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u61	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Szczerba and Mr Rosa. This is a question about the dramatic situation of child and youth psychiatry units addressed to the Minister of Health. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u62	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The matter we want to address today is absolutely urgent and important. This is about the dramatic situation of psychiatry and youth. Namely, High Izbo, does not arrive centres offering competent therapeutic, psychological and psychotherapeutic assistance. There are suicide attempts among children and adolescents. The aid system is very badly organized. It lacks complexity, consistency, support. There is no regulation requiring cooperation between entities belonging to different departments. This causes, High Izbo, that psychiatrists are addressed as a matter of urgency to persons who do not require such assistance. This also results in people with severe symptoms and suicidal risks or aggressive behaviour waiting months to be visited and treated. We received the latest data, which shows that in Poland there were 98 suicides among children and young people, students and students. It's a frightening situation. We are in second place in Europe when it comes to the number of suicides. Ladies and gentlemen! These dramatic conditions of treatment, the disastrous situation of child psychiatry, recently presented the report of Onetu - Love in times of plague. He also noticed this situation of Jurek Owsiak and the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, which last year provided the first money to support psychiatry of children and youth - about PLN 3 million. We managed to buy, among others. 800 beds. But there are insufficient actions, Minister. As far as Warsaw is concerned, as far as psychiatry of children and young people is concerned, it is 180% at the Warsaw Medical University. , and at the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology - 150% . Specific questions: What are the planned actions to improve the dramatic situation of child and youth psychiatry departments? At what stage are work on the reform of psychiatric health care for children and young people? This is an absolutely important topic that we should be dealing with. This is not the time for discussions, this is not the time for evasive answers, this is the time for concrete actions that are expected of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u63	Thank you. I now ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u64	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Members, I already informed you about the actions taken by the Minister of Health in the area of psychiatry of children and young people a month ago. Indeed, the current situation has been going on for many years, because for several years there has been no action to adapt the current model of mental health care for children and young people to the current global or European standards. That is why we have already taken concrete steps since 2018 to change this system to make it more friendly, and above all to ensure that children and young people with first symptoms of mental health disorders receive assistance as soon as possible, in friendly conditions, preferably in the environment in which they live, including the school environment, so that this assistance is provided at the right time and in the right quality. With regard to the current situation, we have 34 psychiatric units in the country for children and young people who provide 24-hour benefits. A total of 995 beds are available. But in addition to such institutions, daily psychiatric departments for children and young people, which we have contracted, are also providing support in the field of mental health. 38 Psychological benefits are provided in 127 institutions and psychiatric, outpatient benefits for children and adolescents in 166. It should be stressed that annual expenditure on health care is increasing. Compared to 2018, there is an increase in expenditure on this type of benefit by almost 30%, i.e. we are spending an increasing amount on these benefits. Of course, we are aware that adding money to the system without changing the system will not produce the expected results. I have therefore informed you that we have prepared concrete changes based on global standards, which will allow the child to receive assistance in the event of mental health problems at a specific place and at a specific time. This system is built on environmental and outpatient benefits, which have not yet been contracted. The second level is the level of daily wards, mental health clinics for children and adolescents and environmental treatment teams. And the third level is stationary medicine, which at the moment mostly occurs in our country. Such location of those providing support to children and young people will result in children who are actually in a life-threatening situation or diagnosis being carried out in psychiatric hospitals, as well as in 24-hour care. Most of these problems, on the other hand, will be solved on the first and second levels. And the Member mentioned that we should stop talking and start doing things. So, Mr President, I would like to inform you that I have already mentioned this in my previous statement, that we are starting the process of contracting psycho-psychotherapeutic clinics. It started a week and a half ago, as announced by the Minister of Health, that the first competitions will be scheduled in February. At this moment in 15 voivodships competitions were announced for the contract of psycho-psychotherapeutic clinics. In total, 317 areas have been identified where the National Health Fund wants to contract such clinics. The resources for these clinics have been secured. On Friday, the Minister of Finance decided to allocate PLN 242 million for this purpose. These are the additional funds that we spend, apart from those that were planned to contract benefits from the very first level. As far as the first level is concerned, children will be able to receive benefits without referral, and they will be awaited by psychologists, psychotherapists and environmental therapists. This team will work closely with psycho-pedagogical counseling in schools and with family assistants who work in the field of social policy. We want this support to be an interdisciplinary support, because solving these health problems of the child in terms of behavioral disorders, emotional disorders or self-destructive behaviour is very often possible through individual, group psychotherapy or correction in peer groups. We want this team to work closely with the family, because problems start very often there. And that's why the Minister of Health took concrete action, secured the measures. The contracting process has started and we hope that the first of these clinics will start from April 1st and that by the end of the year this guide map in our country will be gradually completed. This model that we have built, which we are implementing, which will be financed, because it is a security, is based on world standards, but also (The Bell) on the experience gained from piloting in several centres in the country. This pilotage shows that such care ensures that most children's problems are solved in home, outpatient environments, and that they need no hospitalisation, which is of the utmost benefit to their mental health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question will be asked by Monika Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The first interviews on child psychiatry were sent to you more than a year ago. It took a very long time for you to respond so that we could receive concrete information on how this dramatic situation would be improved. But the term of office lasts until November. I have questions, Minister. How many children's psychiatry specialists are currently working in Poland with children? How many patients and how many patients are waiting for a round-the-clock party? How long does it take to wait in a life-threatening situation for a hospital reception? Has the evaluation of child psychiatry provided by the National Health Fund increased? Minister, I also have a question about teenagers from the LGBT community. Teenagers find out they're gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender. 70% of which have suicidal thoughts, 70% He's depressed and mentally ill. They don't meet with the support of the school psychologists you were talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is at school that they are experiencing aggression of all kinds, hatred. How do we solve this problem, Minister? [[Applause]] Emigrate. Do what?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u67	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already told you, these changes that we are making at the moment - because they are already entering into force - these are concrete actions - had to be carefully thought through. We've been gathering information about the different models that are used in different countries, and we've been able to create a model that is compatible with world standards and the most child-friendly. In 2018, as I said, we started work - teams consisting of national consultants were established. Last year, because you also asked about staff, we regulated the education of psychotherapists and environmental therapists. We have also defined the principles of gaining these powers. As far as psychiatric specialists are concerned, currently in the country we have 440 psychiatric specialists in children and young people, but I would like to stress that this new model is built on the basis of psychologists, psychotherapists and environmental therapists. We want the child to have first contact with a psychologist and a psychotherapist so that it is not stigmatized, that he is being treated in a psychiatric ward, that he is being treated in a psychiatric clinic. If this team we're talking about diagnoses the need to contact a doctor, the child will be referred to a doctor immediately. Based on the procedures reported by the NFZ, we know that 80% these procedures, which are currently being performed in hospitals, can be carried out in psychological and psychotherapeutic clinics or at the second level, i.e. mental health clinics, environmental treatment teams or daily wards. That's what this change is all about. The idea is to destigmatize, deinstitutionalize psychiatric care for children, because the hospital is a last resort, not a basic mode of action in case of supporting children. You're talking about the problem of suicide. Yes, there are indeed changes in civilization, changes in the care function of the family. Many different factors make these disorders more and more frequent. Of course, these counsellors are intended to play a very important role and to detect the first symptoms of depression, the disorders that you spoke about. Also, what is worth pointing out, in the National Health Programme, we have the priorities set out in the framework of which mental health tasks are carried out. This year we are modeling the National Health Programme, where we place particular emphasis on the prevention of suicide and supporting children in difficult mental health situations. As regards the valuation of benefits, the valuation of benefits has been increased. As I told you, we've practically increased by 30% in two years. Contacts. There's additional resources at the moment. Value of benefits, not expense. There is a higher valuation of a specific procedure, increased funding of procedures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also a greater number of these procedures. Together, we hope that the corrective measures that we are taking as well as the preventive measures will be improved in a short time. Of course, we need good cooperation with local governments. In many cases, psychologist-psychotherapeutic clinics should be created by local authorities. We are counting on this cooperation so that we can take care of the welfare of our children together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek and Mr Marek Polak. The question about the risk of a deadly coronavirus is, of course, addressed to the Minister of Health. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Coronavirus is another extremely dangerous virus that causes more and more diseases, especially since the incubation period of the virus is over 20 days. Minister, I have a few questions about this. What action is being taken by the Ministry of Health and Health? Do they ensure the safety of Polish citizens? Is it possible to identify the DNA of the virus in Polish laboratories to shorten the diagnostic process in case of suspected illness? Have all health establishments received specific instructions on how to deal with patients suspected of being infected with this virus? Or, for example, by e-mail to the NFZ or did the health care department notify the doctor's office, especially the family doctor, how to proceed in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u71	Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, High Izbo! A few days ago, the Director-General of the World Health Organization described the outbreak of the epidemic as a serious threat to the world. As we know, the deadly virus has already reached Europe and the United States. There is also no lack of opinion that his appearance in Poland is only a matter of time. Therefore, I would like to ask if we are adequately prepared for the possible appearance of Coronavirus in our country. What preventive measures are currently being taken to prevent this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u73	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, the problem of Coronavirus is an issue which is the subject of analysis by various institutions. On behalf of the Polish Government, I would like to assure you that we are prepared. We are constantly working with all the World Health Organisation's agendas, as well as with all the European institutions that are also on the subject. We are doing this because the World Health Organization has recognised this as a cross-border threat. This also obliges the Polish government to launch procedures, not only those procedures that are defined and operate in our country in the event of an epidemiological risk, but also international procedures. The institution, which has been appointed by the government to supervise, coordinate work related to the possible spread of Coronavirus, is the chief sanitary inspector who oversees all activities related to prevention, protection of the Polish population. Resources are also monitored in terms of the potential of our country in the event of a greater threat. With regard to current data on the actions we are taking in our country related to the Kronavirus epidemic, 1643 people are currently covered by epidemiological surveillance in our country, 14 people are quarantined and 48, including 35 people who returned to Wuhan, are now hospitalized. Currently we know that in Hubei province there is one Pole who does not want to return to our country, while the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are in contact with him. From the information obtained from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we know that there are still about 600 and 1000 people of Polish nationality in China. The Polish Embassy is in contact with these people. If these people wish to return to their country, they will always be helped. According to the state for today, it can be said that there are no confirmed cases of a coronaviurus in Poland. We are currently conducting studies that have ruled out the diagnosis of coronavirus infection from people who have had contact with people in China or were themselves there. We are conducting tests based on mRNA, which is exactly what you asked for here. These tests are currently performed at the National Institute of Public Health of the National Hygiene Institute. These tests provide us with full information about the possible presence of this virus in people who may have been exposed to it. As far as resources are concerned, we are constantly analysing the availability of infectious beds in our country. All hospitals have been notified by the Chief Health Officer of the procedure. Appropriate procedures have been put in place. We also analyze our resources in terms of the number of intensive care beds, the ability to help breathing, ECMO cameras. We have an exact database of where and what equipment exists. It should also be borne in mind that there is a central material reserves base in which we also have considerable supplies in case of threat to our country. So that all these issues are monitored on an ongoing basis. I would like to remind you that the chief health inspector has also issued appropriate arrangements that apply to the arrival of passengers to our country. So there are procedures at airports that allow those people who may have had contact with the coronavirus to be identified to be monitored. So that the Minister of Health analyzes the situation on an ongoing basis. In addition, we monitor the resources of the antivirus medicines we have at our disposal. We also have these drugs in the material reserves. Therefore, the Polish Government has under control the entire risks associated with the possible spread of this virus. Finally, I would like to stress that medical rescue teams are also equipped with appropriate equipment. We have accurate data, which emergency service station, which has the means of protection available to the team, so that in the event of a threat, teams prepared for this purpose can be available. So that I would like to stress that, despite the fact that we have not identified the presence of Coronavirus in our country at present, we are on standby. All services shall operate in accordance with the specific procedures in force in such cases. You should be aware (The Bell) that at some point this virus in our country will probably appear. For this reason, we have both medical and sanitary services and resources that should be used in such situations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u75	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Some international airports have implemented security procedures to use special scanners to measure each passenger's body temperature. No airport in Europe, including Poland, has decided to do so. I would like to ask: What other security features were introduced at Polish airports and in Polish ports to eliminate the risk of uncontrolled entry of a deadly virus into our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u77	We'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u78	Ladies and gentlemen! According to the decision of the Chief Health Inspector, every citizen who comes to our country receives a localization card at the airport, thanks to which we have full knowledge of where he is. Of course, this means that such a person is under remote surveillance of the health care services. Information about her whereabouts is provided to the local sanitary and epidemiological station, which maintains contact with her. This involves monitoring the health of such a person and determining whether he or she has the first symptoms. If yes, action shall be taken immediately in accordance with the procedure. This was the case with a U.S. citizen who reached our country in the first days of the epidemic. At first, she had no symptoms, but our services, monitoring her health remotely, so to speak, decided at some point that she needed to be hospitalized. Yeah, that kind of surveillance is being conducted. For today, the chief health inspector doesn't issue any stricter guidelines. If it turns out that the level of threat is increasing, the Chief Health Officer will certainly take concrete action to prevent the spread of the virus. These standards and procedures are sufficient for today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak and Mr Marek Merry, on the financial perspectives for the reconstruction of the railway line Jastrzębie Zdrój - Katowice in connection with the "Kolej+" programme - a question to the Minister of Infrastructure. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question - addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure - concerns the "Rail+' programme. On 19 September 2008, the Civic Platform closed down the last railway line in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, a city which has almost 100,000. residents. In 2001, the first railway liquidation concerned inter alia. line Hawks-Zdrój - Katowice. Mr Jakub Chełstowski and Marshal Wojciech Kałuża moved the proposal concerning this investment to the third position, recognizing it as strategic for the Silesian voivodship. In previous years it was very distant in terms of investment. Therefore, the inhabitants of Jastrzębie-Zdrój are very interested in obtaining information on the financial project and the deadline for possible implementation of this investment. The city is deprived of transport not only by rail, but also by bus, but also by bus. This is also a big obstacle for residents returning, among others. to Hawk with luggage, because the carrier who transports does not always have the possibility to take luggage. Therefore, there is a great need for the railway to be launched also because very many young people, students use the university in Katowice and it would be a very good form of transport, especially fast and safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u81	Thank you very much for asking the question. The answer will be given to Mr Andrzej Bittel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Membership! Ladies and gentlemen! An example of Hawk-Zdrój, a city almost 100 thousand - because 90 thousand. it is almost 100,000, one can say - it is a model example of the exclusion of rail transport communication. The identification of such a problem gave rise to the start of remedial action to counter this situation, which materializes under the "Rail+' programme, which consists of three components, elements: investment, transport and counter-decommissioning. The actions are described in the Government's resolution, which concerns the "Rail+' programme, but also in the law on which parliamentary work ends at the current meeting of the Sejm, i.e. a law on amending the Rail Transport Act and other laws that has just returned from the Senate. Yesterday was the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, and today - I assume that today - or tomorrow you will vote against the recommendation of the Committee on Infrastructure to reject the Senate amendment. These two acts of law, resolution and law will allow for the implementation of the "Rail+' programme, the main objective of which is to stop the degradation and revitalisation of railway infrastructure at local and regional level. It is a program aimed at towns with a population of more than 10,000. residents, without access to rail transport, i.e. Hawks-Zdrój, of course, is located in this package. And by opening the parenthesis, I'm going to say that when we estimate the cost of the program, we pointed out that the investment for Hawk-Zdrój is one of those dozens evaluated, nearly 100 evaluated, is on a short government list, let's say, is taken into account. But the program, and a few more words later, will be an open program that requires self-government activity, so this is an example list, not a closed directory. That, too, needs to be said. So it will be a program which will be implemented by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe as national infrastructure manager, and it is directed to local government, which in cooperation with PKP Polskie Linia Kolejowe will carry out these activities. Local government units should join larger groups so that they can function together. In the first place, tasks will be co-financed to complement the existing railway network with new sections of railway lines, to revitalise existing railway lines and to restore decommissioned rail links in the regions and, second, to prepare documentation in this respect. An open catalog, indicated within the framework of the assumptions, accepted as one which constitutes a government intention... However, the competition will be announced immediately after the law enters into legal order, because in it is the accepted financing of PLN 5.5 billion to be implemented in the years 2020 to 2028. Important information is that the local government will have to make a contribution of 15% investment costs. The first important action will be the announcement of open recruitment. At this stage, financial resources will not yet have to be provided, but the scope of such a project will have to be identified, the estimated costs, the duration of its implementation, the actors involved - to declare it. To declare, and not only to show the resolution of the relevant body constituting the commune council that there is money in the budget. You have to declare your own contribution and show a certain thought that connects with it, i.e. whether there is a possibility of such a connection in the field. These activities will also concern the local government associated with Jastrzębie-Zdrój, municipalities located on the route. It's about all the actions that are going to be taken here. As far as I know, consultations between local government and PKP Polish Railway Lines I think they're preliminarily in progress and they're being conducted, so that's also proof that we're probably going to meet the proposal here. That's very exciting. From this point on, I would also like to appeal to all local authorities to enter this programme intensively, because it is worth it. We announced the assumptions, then the program was adopted. It has been quite a long time to think about it, and so that those local governments that are really interested - as soon as the call is opened - can come to it. I know local governments that are really advanced when it comes to concepts. He mentioned the issue of bus connections - I urge the local authorities to take part in this and benefit from the funding (Bell) of the bus fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marek Merry will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u84	Dear Marshal, Minister! As a matter of fact, you have already answered my question, which I wanted to ask, to expand. I'd like it to sound like it, because I think it's very important. I mean, is this catalog open? Will it be possible for local authorities to submit further proposals, ideas or their specific needs for this programme? Will they be able to participate in this program? Is this eight-year period exactly the time when the program will be active, open? Will the local authorities that you mentioned, who haven't had time with these proposals or have missed it or slept through, still be able to try to apply to this program? Additional question. It is about cooperation between local governments and local governments. Some of these investments are large investments, often exceeding the capacity of municipalities. What is the case here (Dzwonek), when it comes to the relation of the voivodship - the municipality - the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u85	I confirm, of course, that the directory is open. We had to come up with a catalogue to discuss the financial framework. 5.5 billion plus 1 billion contributions from local governments, i.e. 6.5 billion in total - this is big money. But to counter the exclusion of communication and reverse the liquidation of nearly 7 thousand. km of railway lines, which took place in the past years, for obvious reasons it is too small. Let's look at this as the start of a process that consists of a lot of activities - because also the National Railway Program, and the Central Communication Port, and the maintenance program. That, of course, is what we're dealing with. The directory's open. If local governments make other proposals - it is for recruitment, of course. The call will take place soon, so it should be over by now. An important element is that local governments actually cooperate with each other. The configuration of cooperation is absolutely arbitrary. I assume that the municipality, and the county, and the local government should be interested in good collective transport, treating it as an investment in the development of their region, district or small homeland. This is where the cooperation has to be. There must be a Marshal's declaration as a regional transport organizer that after such an investment he will start the timetable, i.e. he will start the journey. Because we do not need only infrastructure for happiness, but we also need a train that will move after this infrastructure according to a good timetable. Of course, full, broad cooperation is as expected and needed as possible, and the catalogue is open. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u86	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mrs Ewa Malik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice would like to ask a question about raising funds to restore the castle in Będzin... Great, I care about that, too. ...to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Silesia and Zagłębie Dąbrowskie are not only mines and mills, but also castles and palaces. On the Castle Mountain in Będzin nad Black Przemsie you can admire the castle from the 13th century. The place is especially close to me because I come from there. The brick castle was built in the time of Kazimierz the Great. According to the legend, Kazimierz the Great, while staying here, said, "This is where I will rest." That's where the name of the city of Bedzin came from. Originally it was a small settlement, which Kazimierz the Great surrounded with the castle and the church. And so a small settlement turned into a vibrant city. In the Middle Ages, Bedzin was a very important link of the defence line at the border with the Czech Republic. In 1683 King John III Sobieski was staying at the castle, who was going to the rescue of Vienna. In 1834, the castle began to collapse. In the '30s. The castle was completely renovated in the 19th century by Italian architect Francis Maria Lanci. It is the effect of his work and the reconstruction of the 1950s that we can admire today. The castle is located right in the center of the city, on a high cliff on the left bank of Black Przemsza, surrounded by a moat and a high double peripheral wall. From the castle extends a wide view of the whole area. Knights' reunions and historical events are organized here. Inside the castle since 1956 there has been a Museum of Zagłębie. The castle is the card of the city of Bedzina, but not only, it is a proof of the valiantness and independence of Poles. Thanks to the medieval structure, we will never forget our roots. He is also our pride. In addition, monuments are subject to legal protection in Poland. Hence, I am asking the Minister of Finance and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Is it possible to finance EU funding for conservation work, restaurant work at the castle on Black Przemsza in Będzin? The castle needs renovation, as further damage will significantly worsen the possibilities (the Bell) of restoring the facility. Can we additionally count on embellishing the place around the castle, possibly creating new attractions there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u88	Thank you very much. Before I hand over the mike to the Minister, I have good information for you, Mr. President. We can speed this up, there will be a vote, because there are requests to give from the state budget to this castle. And this may be the Minister's answer. So we're just gonna try it together, and we're both gonna be happy. Mr. Marshal... On behalf of the Minister for Funds and Regional Policy, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Grzegorz Puda, is responsible. I would have asked your messengers not to comment, as the marshal says. Okay? You're very welcome. But you're a marshal as a marshal. I also guarantee that, as Marshal Witek's proceedings will be conducted, there will be peace on the left side. You're welcome, Minister. Mr. Marshal, you don't say... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it should be noted that Silesia - Śląskie voivodship - was indicated in the national strategy papers, first of all the strategy for responsible development, as an area of strategic intervention of regional policy. The region is struggling, as you know very well, with restructuring and adaptation difficulties, and therefore requires a particular interest in the country's national policy and, it cannot be concealed, regional. One of the key objectives is to try to change the profile of the Silesian voivodship, and I am also talking about the area of Zagłębie. In addition to the necessary economic measures, an effort is extremely needed to demonstrate all the valuable cultural heritage resources of this entire region. It so happens that the Śląskie voivodship consists of several subregions, so I am talking about all the culturally important subregions at the moment. Of course, this change in the profile of the regions referred to in the Responsible Development Strategy must be comprehensive. What is important, it must be rooted in what constitutes, what is, what is, - we say it everyday - Silesian, and also about the potential of cultural heritage. One of the most important elements of the heritage are the castles and their remains, including the castle mentioned by Mr Będzin. As Deputy Minister of Funds and Regional Policy, I am a great supporter of the support of monuments, cultural heritage in the Silesian Voivodeship, including its valuable castles. We support the efforts made by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage in this respect. One of the tasks of our Ministry to strengthen the competitive position of the regions is to include, within the framework of the regional development policy, actions aimed at the most important historical sites in order to protect them from devastation and irreparable destruction. Action is also very important to restore these monuments to local communities and tourists who could use these monuments on a daily basis. This should also involve the adaptation of these monuments to cultural purposes. It would be good for those entities in which the monuments such as the castle in Będzin are preserved to have a long-term development plan for the monument so that it can act as an active and significant cultural institution in the region. In this way we save not only the monument, but we are also able to support its new functions, support tourism and widely understood culture by the big Ks. Personally, I think it is important to combine such monuments into thematic historical and cultural routes, so that these routes can strengthen the attractiveness of the entire region. It is also important to combine such places in educational trails, which will be the next generations, mainly the next generations, to show how important the role of history in what we are doing today is. As regards the funding of the castle in Będzin from the European Union, in 2007 and 2013, the municipality of Będzin received EU funding in the amount of PLN 14 million from the regional programme of the Silesian Voivodeship for the implementation of the project. The funding of culture under the 2014-2020 measures - in this financial perspective, the European Union's support for cultural heritage and cultural resources continues from both national and regional levels and even from local level. The Śląskie voivodship itself, of which I am personally proud, gained almost PLN 380 million of EU support for cultural heritage and cultural institutions. Among the investments of this region is an example of the Museum of Coal Mining in Zabrze, the Academy of Music. Karol Szymanowskiego in Katowice or renovation of the building of the Holy Trinity church in Bytom. In answer to the second part of the question on the environment of historic sites, it should be stressed that the possibility of such support is very important and taken into account in the ongoing work on the scope of support for future operational programmes. In the current edition of European funds, projects related to the development of the immediate environment of monuments could be implemented through separate programmes. We would like to maintain a similar range of support in the next perspective, in the next programming period 2021 and 2027. This means that, as part of the implementation of antique projects, support could be given to the environment, as the Member asked. Not only this environment within the castle itself, but directly adjacent to the monuments, in this case to the castle, which in our opinion is inextricably connected with the historical object. On my side, that's it. If you have more questions about such objects, whether in Zagląg or in Silesia or throughout the Silesian Voivodeship, we are, of course, at your disposal, your Member State. We'll be happy to provide information. We look forward to using EU funds in the new perspective. We believe that culture is not only an expense, but, above all, culture is a big investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u90	Thank you, Minister. I have good news for you because Mr Andzel is about to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I very much wanted to thank the Minister for his response and the Government of Law and Justice for taking care of the monuments, including this very important and close to my heart medieval castle in Bedzin. And thank you very much for using EU funds in this respect. I'm sure it's a shame or a stetha of the Left amendment, because it's probably going to disorganize the state budget - we're certainly not going to use the EU's resources better in this respect to renovate such extremely important historical objects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u92	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get back to question five. Mr Lidia Burzyńska and Mr Joanna Borowiak and Mr Barbara Bartus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice would like to ask a question about the functioning of the e-recept system - the Minister for Health. On behalf of the Ministry, the Secretary of State will be responsible for Mr Szczurek. Minister. Excuse me, Minister Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko. I'm so sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Under the Law of 1 March 2018 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescriptions since January of this year, they are already in force, already issued. The main aim of e-prescription was to facilitate the process of implementation of prescriptions, reduce errors, optimize the use of time on the part of doctors and pharmacists, eliminate the problem of illegible or false prescriptions. And this is very good, because until recently the patient had to get a prescription, go to the doctor for a paper prescription, which means he automatically took time and his own, and the doctor had to visit him personally. This also applies to chronically ill people. I am not saying that a doctor's visit is not an essential part of the diagnosis, but this applies to a group of people who are chronically ill, taking the same medicines regularly. Today you can use the statement that it is already a past, because thanks to the possibility of using e-prescription the patient simply makes a phone and receives a four-digit code, as well as going to the pharmacy and only knowledge of the patient PESEL allows him to buy a prescription. The e-prescription will be delivered directly by e-mail. My question is, Minister, what is the implementation and practical functioning of the e-prescription? That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And secondly, what will be the implementation of prescriptions among seniors and people who do not have mobile devices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u94	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Once again, I'm very sorry, ma'am, but I was wrong about the cards because Mr. Sławomir Gadomski was supposed to be Minister, but... Of course, I apologize again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because it will also allow us to present the situation as to the digitalisation of the health system. Health care is whether it has so far been one of the most neglected areas in terms of computerisation, digitalisation. Most events, records were encoded in paper form that prevented many different processes, including... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u96	Excuse me, Minister. You're disturbing the Platform a little bit. Mr President, I have a polite request that you do not disturb the Minister. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: The lack of digitalisation caused us not to have access to a lot of data, but, above all, it was difficult for patients, for example in this case receiving a paper prescription, there were often situations about which the Member said that recipes could be destroyed, soiled, became illegible, a large percentage of prescriptions, especially those hand-made, were illegible to pharmacists, which involved returning to the doctor, re-write, etc., and for the sick, especially the elderly, it was extremely burdensome. Therefore, the current government has already taken concrete action since 2018 to introduce, inter alia, digitization for health protection. We started by introducing an e-prescription. In 2018 we started piloting, under which solutions were tested in several cities in Poland. On the basis of this piloting, we adjusted the system, because that's why the piloting was implemented. After such successful piloting of this system, we started an intensive process of connecting pharmacies to the system. In the first place, drugstores were connected and then medicinal entities were connected. Practically in 2018 the process of connecting all pharmacies to the P1 platform ended, i.e. all pharmacies were already ready to accept and implement prescriptions. However, in 2019 the process of connecting medicinal products continued. This is where we responded to the needs of medicinal agents. If operators signalled a lack of electronic equipment, although at present, in the age of digitalisation, this is not exactly the basic reason for preventing e-recipes from being implemented, but when there were such situations, we spent money on equipment. This enabled entities to be connected to platform P1. Since January 8, this year, e-prescription is mandatory. However, according to the Pharmaceutical Law, there are certain exceptions when no e-prescriptions are issued and recipes in paper form may be inserted, among others. It's a prescription under the so-called. Target imports. a prescription for an unidentified person or a cross-border prescription. This prescription will be available in paper form by the end of 2020 and pro recipes auctore and pro familiae. On the other hand, other prescriptions are already made in electronic form. Of course, in the absence of access to the eHealth system, e.g. in the event of a network failure or an office system failure, such a paper prescription may also be issued in exceptional circumstances. What's the situation? About 2 million prescriptions are issued daily in Poland, more than 90% The prescription is in this form. Nearly 17 million patients received nearly 108 million e-recepts issued by 107 000 by February. health care professionals, because I will remind you that in addition to doctors, prescriptions may also be issued by nurses and midwives. So that the system works. Of course, in cases of system failure, as I said, it is possible to issue a paper prescription and implement it on the existing terms. She also mentioned e-prescriptions which are issued to seniors. She asked if it was necessary to have an electronic device that could receive the code or other information necessary to implement the e-prescription. I want to stress that no cell phone is required. Patients may receive an e-prescription in their chosen form, including: they may receive a text message on their mobile phone, an e-mail to the e-mail address indicated, but they may also receive an information printout from the doctor if they do not have the option. They can obtain an information printout from the doctor and, on the basis of this printout, implement an e-prescription in a specific pharmacy. This printout contains the PESEL number, the code, or information on the use of this medicine. So that those who do not have these devices are absolutely not deprived of the possibility to implement e-prescriptions, even the opposite. On the other hand, we encourage you to use the (Bingle) electronic version. I would like to stress that we are carrying out cyclical training for seniors, which are intended to enable, among others, the use of. from these electronic channels in such a way that you do not have to print even these information prints. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bartus of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u97	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I have to start by thanking you, thank you very much, because this is a big breakthrough, which is a big facilitation for patients who are taking medicines on a permanent basis - especially for such patients. They don't have to sign up for a doctor anymore, stand in line, they don't take this line. This really is a breakthrough. We're still talking about the doctor's queues. I think that this way these queues will be significantly reduced, because it will be easy to get another prescription for a medicine that is sometimes taken for years to get. But I also have a question. If we are able to go this way in the right direction, then, if we introduce complete digitization and each patient will be described, including what medications he is taking, whether we can also make changes that make it easier for patients 75+, I am talking about free medications, whether there will be any work (the bell), so that this program can be extended so that not only doctors of first contact can write these prescriptions for free medications, but also for example. geriatric doctors, where these patients are taken care of? I think that would also be a very important and very good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u98	Thank you, Member. Minister, this may surprise you, but I join you in thanking me because I'm a patient, too, and I'm enjoying it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u99	Thank you very much. I, of course, will pass on these thanks from you, above all from Mr Marshal, to Minister Łukasz Szumowski, because he sets out the main trends and directions of the Ministry's work in the field of health protection. Dear Member, in terms of these facilitations, of course, these are great facilitations. not only for seniors, but I would like to emphasise one thing: in the case of the teleporad that you spoke about, it is indeed possible. Most patients, however, take medical advice personally. This also makes it easier and this is part of the change. The health system, as I said at the beginning, requires continuous work in terms of digitalisation. At the moment, we have a lot of data on procedures for specific patients in the database, while these systems are still often inconsistent, many of the medicinal products have computerized their areas on their own, and action must therefore be taken to ensure that all of these systems are consistent. Such actions are continued, among others. The construction of platform P1, which was announced many, many years ago, is still ongoing. I think we will soon have the level of digitalisation of the system as in other countries of the European Union. This will allow us to collect, collect all information about your health as well as your medications. So far, such situations occur, that patients, using advice, e.g. Neurologists, rheumatologists, diabetesologists or other specialists receive different types of prescriptions and implement them in different pharmacies. There is no control over polypragma, and very often this phenomenon occurs. In the case of an electronic prescription, the pharmacist who will carry out these prescriptions will already have knowledge of the medicines you are taking. Of course it is. also such a control system as regards medicines that are written and ordained for a particular patient. Regarding the extension of the 75+ list of medicines, i.e. free medicines for people over the age of 75, certainly one of the elements that blocked the possibility of other professionals issuing these prescriptions, was precisely this electronic shortage. Once a full system is in place, we will certainly consider this possibility so that patients do not have to come back to their primary healthcare doctor for a prescription. From the specialists... However, the direction or rather the solution that we want to implement is that this primary physician should be a primary healthcare doctor, while consultants should act on the basis of consultation, medical assistance. The entire care of the patient should be provided by a primary healthcare doctor, but we will certainly consider the possibility of enlargement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this question concludes this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the government's actions will be considered in connection with the avalanchely increasing prices and cost of living of Polish families, which was requested by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, for a few years now, since PiS has only come to power, a maniac has really been introducing an expensive+ program. Not only are you openly contributing to the increase in prices, you are not doing actually anything to help Polish families in the face of a crazy expensive cost. Shame on you, Member. Shame, shame. I know it's already starting to hurt. [[Applause]] The truth hurts. Because although there are objective indications that the cost may be, the government is from introducing such systems and mechanisms, so that this cost does not affect Polish families so much, especially the weakest ones. For starters, maybe a few examples. More and more expensive meat. I mean pork, of course. Tax on it, not on it. We know there's a virus, we know there's African swine fever. That's what we all know, but the question is how your government dealt with him. Well, when he reached central Poland, your minister wanted to build a barrier at the borders. That's how we know why today's pork is a few times more expensive than it was a few years ago. [[Applause]] That's not good enough. What have you led to? Why is this meat, especially pork, so expensive? Because because of your inability, the number of pig herds has unfortunately decreased dramatically. In 2015, there were 250,000 pig herds, but in 2019 half of them were left. More examples. Waste prices. I will refer to the general data of the government institution, the Central Statistical Office or the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Here you go: waste prices. It is your nominate, then president of the UOKiK Mr.Marek Niecciał said that the increase in waste prices began in 2017 and then year after year prices started to rise. Unfortunately, Polish families suffer. As for food, this famous receipt for which today, I know, you are prepared, in 2015, when your president Andrzej Duda went shopping, he paid PLN 37.02 for several products. Today, the same products in the same shop cost PLN 47,16. It's not the same. Sure, a reality whisper. That's an increase of almost 30% on one small receipt. That's not true, that's not true. Yes, sir. Go and tell that to the Poles at the marketplaces. You'll find out how much they love you. I know that for you millions of dollars and bonuses are actually the most important, and for Polish families you can't respect zlotys. I would like to say to everyone here that you are prepared for this receipt, because today these few products, ladies and gentlemen, of course, cost less than 30 PLN, because it happens that this trade network has done on these days, from the 13th to the 15th, promotion, but Poles do not buy these products on a daily basis. For three days, especially for the PiS. Especially for the Law and Justice. That's right, and then they'll pay three times that. Mr. Marshal, please calm the Members. I think that's your option. Ladies and gentlemen! Sugar taxes, vegetables, sugar. After all, it is the CSO that says that vegetable prices have actually increased by 20% last year. More. You say drought. Then why are you overregulating the Polish rivers? Today is a completely different world trend, which is called renaturization. That's what all of Europe does. Today there is a great drought in Poland, because you cannot cope with the environment. The famous parsley. Last year her price went up 300%. It's all piss. What's gonna happen this year when you add sugar tax? I'm afraid to think. Ha, ha, ha! All because of the PiS. Sugar tax... Electricity. Its prices are rising and this year Poles will feel it the hardest. But it's no wonder that you're putting mostly on coal, and it's the one from Russia... Russian coal. ...then you destroy renewable energy sources. Your minister Tchórzewski announced the scrapping of all existing windmills. Polish families will pay for this. I know what you're gonna say, we're giving you 500+, 13's. What's left of them? The data of the CSO shows that with 500+ left 270 zł... Better than zero. ...and for pensioners, after deduction of the cost of living in the apartment, after paying the bills, expenses actually remain for daily life 8 PLN per day. It's scary. What was it like four years ago? It's scary to think what would be - because threats are always there for every government (the bell): and it's a virus, and it's a global economic crisis - if you were in charge when there was a global economic crisis. It's easy for you to give back the money we've accumulated. Where? Where's the money? Don't lie to me! On the other hand, you introduced 40 taxes, which you charged to Polish families, e.g. banking, commercial. 41 accepted. I think I'm gonna talk to them in the last part. Thank you. [[Applause]] 3 billion. You're poaching the Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u102	Thank you very much. I have a very kind, very cordial request for you. There'll be time to ask questions. Anyone who wants to say something will say something, Mr, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, all the people willing to take part. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed. There you go. [[Applause]] Stas, tell them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because I think that the question that was addressed to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy will show a number of actions that we have taken in the last 4 years of the rule of law and justice, the United Right... Yes, sir. ... showing how the situation of Polish families has improved and is still improving. Of course, if we were to adopt the strategy that you have adopted, saying that everything is for nothing, nothing succeeds by mentioning the Minister of Agriculture, recalling other things, then... I didn't say that. Of course you can accept such rhetoric, but it is absolutely untrue. I think that Polish families who benefit from all the programs that the government is implementing can best testify about this. [[Applause]] Maybe to start with some information about this main objective, because that's how I understand the question. We're talking inflation, price increases. There is nothing unusual here: with good economic development, when consumption increases, prices of certain goods also increase and inflation increases. When we talk about the inflation rate in December 2019 compared to the corresponding month ub. Yo, that inflation was 3.4%. This means that the value of the product basket, the basket of goods, which is assessed in terms of inflation, has increased. Oh, no, no. They're different... As far as the whole year 2019 is concerned, according to the Central Statistical Office, inflation was 2,3%, i.e. significantly lower than December inflation. December is always higher due to the holiday period, it raises inflation rate. Yes, sir. People cheer, it's never been so cheap. What else is soothing that, so to speak, the effects of inflation? Of course, they are mostly mitigated by the rate of wage increases. It's been impressive in recent years. I'll give you the statistics because it's worth talking about numbers too. In 2019 the average salary in the national economy amounted to PLN 4918. This means an increase of almost 5% in 2019 compared to the previous year. If we looked at the dynamics in recent years... I will give you an example of the state of government in 2012 and 2015 for 4 years. The average salary increased by 11% during that period. If we look at our period, the years 2016 and 2019, the last 4 years, the increase was almost 20%. This is the difference between our governments and our governments. In the last 30 years, during a single term, this has been the highest increase in wages. The highest ever in the history of these 30 years is this 20% increase in wages. As far as the minimum wage issue is concerned, it is also worth mentioning the examples we are talking about here. For your governments, between 2010 and 2015, the minimum wage increased by 433 PLN, in our period, between 2015 and 2020 - 850 PLN, from 1750 to 2600 PLN, which means an increase of 50%. If we went further, by 2010, we had an increase of 100 percent, because that was at the level of 880 PLN. And I think it's worth giving you the purchasing power data now, too. How much could the goods in question be purchased in a given year? Let's compare 2015 and 2019. How many parsleys can you buy? Pietros. Well, it's a success. The Member has always liked such comparisons, and I will give you examples of how it looks. If we're talking about the salary increase I've been presenting, he's at least 5% higher, and over the course of these four years he's 20% higher. We're going to compare this to the minimum wage and the average wage. So the years 2015 and 2019 - when it comes to products such as milk, 180 l milk at minimum wage can be bought more from our governments, 400 l milk more from our governments at average wage than from the government. Jesus, it's a commune. A square meter apartment, for example. I think very, very... About that, I don't know, we can raise the question... Yeah, it's a square meter thing. It's interesting, too, but it's also interesting. gasoline. I think gas is interesting. Gasoline - 50 liters at minimum wage more in our time, 110 liters of petrol more you can buy... It's not like gas is more expensive in Poland than gas stations. If you understood what I'm talking about, you wouldn't understand, but you don't understand. It's just purchasing power and wages are things that coincide, but that's what you need to know. And you have to learn something. If you don't know, don't just talk to me. It's simple stuff. [[Applause]] Yes, you know better. People at the market cheer. It's never been this cheap before. And now... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Minister, I have a request. Sir... There's no point... Culture... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Mr. Marshal! You're the one who's been reacting... Okay, okay, but... Okay, I've been... But they're disturbing... The truth hurts. But don't be nervous. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I'm not nervous, I'm talking calmly. I'm not nervous. Ladies and gentlemen... But why the aggression, Minister? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: What aggression, sir? I answer you... Ladies and gentlemen! Do you want me to adjourn? Would you guys calm down? I'm asking you kindly, both sides. What a rude thing to do! Minister, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: And now the question is that wages are growing faster. than inflation. We can't tolerate... Let me give you a comparison. You had inflation at less than 1% in 2013 And the increase in wages is 3%. In our governments, inflation - 2.31%, wage growth - 7.31%, that is, wage growth, severely inhibits the effects of inflation. And now I will move on to other activities that we took in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, programs that also affect the lives of Poles. The first programme is primarily family of 500+. From the beginning of the implementation of the programme until December 2019, we spent together on the programme Family 500+ These are huge measures that have contributed to the budgets of Polish families. I don't remember anything like that in your day. We have a good start program that applies to all children who are up to the age of 20. 4.5 million people have been covered by this programme. PLN 1.5 billion has been transferred to this programme. The programme - the increase in expenditure from PLN 150 million to PLN 450 million. I will no longer give all the amounts that have increased, the number of crèches, but it is worth noting that from 2016 to 2020 we have allocated PLN 1650 million to the programme. Senior policy programmes are, of course, programmes which are linked to direct support for pensioners. Recent actions - additional benefit, so-called. The 13th pension, and the change in the principles of valorisation - give a total of over 22 billion more money. These funds will go to Polish families. As regards valorisation, let me remind you that we have introduced a quota-percent valorization to protect the lowest pensions. Importantly, we have recently raised the minimum pension - it is 40% higher than in the state of government. Today we have a minimum pension of 1,200 PLN. It increases more than it would result from the amount-percent inflation, i.e. from PLN 1100 to PLN 1200. The Minister needs to be taught what, this is... Add to that a reduction in PIT from 18% to 17% - that's a higher income, too. This applies to the least-sponsored. Plus, there's still a free tax amount. Free tax amount... She also makes these measures smaller. I think that a good indicator is also what we are proposing in other programs today. Minister... It is a programme that supports people with disabilities who are unable to exist independently. The programme entered into force on 1 October. Today, over 300,000. people who need support benefit from the possibility of payment of PLN 500. The meal programme at home and at school is another offer for people who benefit from it. In this example, I show that if fewer people benefit from it, it means that the material situation of families is improving. This is also shown by all data on social assistance - there is a smaller number of social assistance recipients, although in 2018 we raised the level of income in terms of the use of social assistance. These are all the activities I've been able to talk about in the last 10 minutes. They concern the family policy of our government, the policy of all of us. The actions we have undertaken (The Bell) are the best way to sum up such data: in 2015 we spent 1.75% on family policy. GDP, we spend 4% in 2020. [[Applause]] This is a huge increase in spending on family policy These funds go to Polish families. This also somehow prevents situations that occur when it comes to price increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u104	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I wanted to welcome the students from the School and Training Team from Good together with the educators. Welcome. [[Applause]] Welcome to Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a little dilemma that forces me to make a decision. 33 people are asked questions, mostly from the Civic Coalition. I understand you'd all like to ask questions. Yes. Therefore, we change time - from 2 minutes to 1.5 minutes. Everyone. But we do, too. You're here, too. I love one side and the other, because I'm your chosen vice marshal. Bravo! Yes, sir. There you go. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Teresa Wargocka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Love policy, Marshal. The left was, is, and will be. There you go, Member. There's no... Tusk wine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's topic of current information proposed by the Civic Platform fits into such a Polish saying: sinking razors grabs. There you go, very badly picked up on the election campaign. There's no raises. It's cheaper. It dispels all doubts. Yes, sir. Everyone's happy. It's a yeast. The Minister's speech made it very clear to you how much the income situation of Polish families has improved. The essence of the high standard of living of Poles is neither how much they earn nor how much they spend. The ratio of revenue to expenditure is important. To the gallons of milk. I assure you that in Polish families there is an increase in disposable income. Polish families finally have money to pay their loans to save for the future. Ha, ha, ha! It's all success. I wanted to ask the Minister what the ratio of income to spending in Polish families looks like during the period when Law and Justice rule. That's a tough question you're asking. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u106	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Here, here, I invite you to the podium. Just as you wanted, Member. Are we gonna let this go? No. We fight hard. But time flies, my fellow Member. But Mrs. Okla doesn't... No, no, no. You can quit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u107	How much time do I have now? One and a half minutes. All right. Unfortunately, it's not enough to relate, but that's all I want to say, I just want to say... What a question! There's no question. There's gotta be a question. The question, please, may be: How does this happen, Minister, that if it is so good, then why in Poland at the peak of the economy have you led to a rise in poverty of about 2 million people? 2 million people cannot afford to meet basic needs... Where's the data coming from? Central Statistical Office, Member. GUS. 20% of the year is a year. Minister! How is it that you raise the lowest pensions, and the number of people with lower pensions than the lowest ones is increasing? Is it true that in 2015, the number of pensioners who had the lowest pensions was less than 80,000, and in your governments last year it was already 300,000.? Minister! One last question. The Lord refers to the fact that you are implementing systemic solutions such as: the little guy, the Senior+ programme, and I would say that the annual parental leave, or I can add: funding for nannies. This is where we have the little one with the Member. The question is who did it. Yeah, we did. It was the Civic Platform and the PSL that introduced these solutions. Minister! So the question is, what did you do when you put in a system solution? I know that answer, unfortunately, because nothing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everything. And to these system solutions that we've introduced, you've added one thing - plus. And that's your whole job when it comes to system solutions. Plus, the big plus. Huge billions of zlotys. It's plus plus and nothing else. You don't know how to introduce system solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u108	Thank you very much. Madame, I have seen in your eyes a moment of confusion. You'll have five more minutes at the end. Good. Thank you. Oh, that's great. All right, don't move. Relax, the weekend's coming. Mrs Bożena Borys Raccoon, PiS Parliamentary Club. No, let's not be...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We'd like to start by saying to our colleagues in the Civic Coalition, "Hello, this is Earth." [[Applause]] Hello, this is Earth. Bravo! From 1 April 2016 until the end of February this year, and I will not speak from 1 April this year, it has been 46 months. 46 months, after 500 zlotys per child - so much money went to... And you don't understand. Nothing. It's a good thing you're enlightened. That's how much went to Polish families. If the family only took one child, or the other, she received 23,000 by the last February. zł. The extended programme from 1 July 2019, already for each child including the first, is an additional 4,000, i.e. 27 thousand. For 18 years of life, 108 grand will be charged to one child. zł. Of course, you can argue: much, little, medium, but it is undoubtedly money that you haven't given for eight years. I am convinced that at the end of this term Poles will say: we have been living better for the last eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It wasn't that expensive yet. Yes. It wasn't that expensive yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. Come on in. I wanted to point out that the locomotive... also.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The piss is based on the word "plus." Your most famous program is an expensive plus. Well, what I'm trying to say is that for the employees of the budget, the pensioners, the pensioners... In fact, it's people who can't live to the first, because the cost of living has gone up... Well, the Minister spoke on the floor a moment ago, and you could say that he even proved it was cheaper. On January 8, I bought the same groceries as President Andrzej Duda. Nearly 40%. It's more expensive. No, it's not, of course it's not. For the purpose of today's debate, the same discount has lowered the prices of these nine products in such a way that PiS activists put information on Twitter and Facebook that the same products can be bought cheaper than 5 years ago. Who are you kidding? But we'll buy the 16th. Who are you kidding? You think people don't go to shops, they don't buy, they don't know it's expensive? Are you trying to tell me it's cheaper? You won't. The truth is that food prices have gone up by 40%. The price of vegetables and fruits went up, too. And parsley. Services and other products, too. But you know what the worst part is? The people of Birkenau report that... They have money for it. ...they can't afford to bury their loved ones because the burial costs 10,000. They're applying to the Prime Minister to do anything about it. But the wages have also increased. They borrow themselves to bury their loved ones. You didn't do anything about it. That's up, up, up. The only thing you're doing is at this Sejm's meeting you're introducing another tax and a fee (the bell) to collect PLN 3 billion. And who's gonna pay for that? Polish people and Poles. Because you're introducing a special sugar tax. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's not true. It's all Tusk's fault.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u113	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, what the Minister has done should be done and, therefore, thank you for this current information, for being able to present the facts. Because you thought that just like scaring people in the media, in your speeches, it would be the same here. It would be a thank you if it weren't for your insincere intentions, for example. intentions in asking what the government did to expensive, but it's also about your very dishonest and lying speeches. Why aren't they honest? Today you are asking the question of what the government did, and you people, the average citizen, cares as much as after the election in the talks with the Owl was said: today, gasoline can already be 7 PLN. Seven zlotys each. That's what happened. This was 2011 after the next elections. Oh, Jesus. But I also remember my speech here as a young Member when I entered the Sejm in 2007 after two years of rule of law and justice when I presented a bill on the annual allowance for some pensioners. And here, on the bench, just like you were screaming today, let the young retirees get to work. And the result of your yelling was the next years when you raised your retirement age. And they'll take credit. Credit is in BGK, in SKOKs... It's your business, your crew's got a hand there. All draft laws to improve the fate of pensioners were rejected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're talking here today about how the funeral costs have increased. It was the Civic Coalition, the Civic Platform of PSL that even reduced the funeral allowance. And today you're talking about product prices. There was a time when I had to buy butter, for example. for 10 PLN because there was speculation, and today I can buy the same butter for 3 PLN. The only product that stood and is of inferior quality. Thank you very slowly. That's how the market works. Once it's more expensive, once it's cheaper. Thank you, Member. The most important thing is what the government does when it comes to all of this. Thank you, Member. Thank you, Minister, that the government, when it comes to ordinary citizens, is trying. Thank you very much. There's no applause at your house. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. You have half a minute more for Mrs Barbara Bartus. No, I took the first time my friend left me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much. There is laughter among PiS Members when we talk about the fact that in Poland extreme poverty increases when we talk about the fact that seniors are not enough to eat, that they buy the cheapest unhealthy products. The laughter on this side of the room shows the real face of the PiS and the real face of this party. [[Applause]] That's enough for them. That's enough for the PiS, because they were underneath the table taking the prizes that belonged to them. It's a party. And they didn't. And they didn't. The second problem of this debate is this, and it is scandalous that the Minister of Labour does not understand what we are talking about today. Yes, sir. Minister, inflation. We're talking about inflation. We're talking about cost plus. Earth, earth. You guys don't even know what you're talking about. The Minister should know that all the benefits you mentioned here were pro-inflationary measures. That's right. You just confirmed our thesis. They hit the income of hard-working Poles because wealth comes from work. Get it over with. [[Applause]] And you dissuade people. You've been dissuading people for four years. And this is your grave sin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister should also know that the National Bank of Poland is responsible for price stability, for the value of Polish money, i.e. the President of Glapiński. But it seems that President Glapiński, like Mrs Przyłębska from the Constitutional Tribunal, listens to the party directives and forgets that he has tools and has a duty to ensure that prices do not rise as fast as possible throughout Europe. And if the president... Thank you very much, Member. ... Glapiński said today that for two more years... Mrs... ...will not do any action to stop inflation, I ask... Thank you very much, Member. ...or if he's got a glass ball. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u116	Thank you very much. We're back to one and a half minutes. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Miss Anna's not here, please go on. Okay, thank you. We ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Who should know, but the minister should know, that it's not the nominal value of the salary or pension, it's the purchasing power of the wallet. That's one thing. The second - the Minister should also know that prosperity comes from work and not from benefits. And one of the ladies here said, "Hello, this is Earth." Let's talk about facts. I'll tell you what the facts are. Go ahead. The yeast today is not just food, it is not just electricity bills and other media, the export of impurities, etc. The yeast today affects the most sensitive, difficult sphere of our life, or health. Because the most expensive are private medical services, after which Poles must, through your inability to manage health care, reach more and more frequently. And medication. Ladies and gentlemen, Prograf, who is taking patients who have had a kidney transplant, liver transplant... A patient came to me, the voter who bought this medicine a quarter ago - quarterly demand, but the same number of packages, capsules, the same type, producer, the same pharmacy - for PLN 31.84. Do you know how much he paid at the end of January after a quarter for (the bell) exactly the same dose, the same amount and the same drug? PLN 86.72. Scandal! Do you know how tall this is? 270%. It's expensive plus... Thank you, Member. ...touching the most sensitive sphere of our lives. [[Applause]] Yes, ma'am, yes, ma'am. That's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u118	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u119	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! Minister! What cynicism from the members of the Civic Coalition. I don't think you people believe what you're saying from that speaker. People say that on the street. People say that. We have just heard from the Platform Member that the Civic Platform has accumulated money by handing over power in the country. People are talking! She gave away the accumulated money. So you think after four years the Poles forgot what the truth was? Then I'll remind you. It was your finance minister in 2015 who said: Money is gone and will not be. And he kept saying it like a mantra. But it's expensive. It was your Prime Minister Donald Tusk who asked: Where is this money buried? And Morawiecki said 500+ is on loan. You just didn't leave that money, you left it in a tragic financial situation. And today you say, you have the courage to say: We left the accumulated money. Honestly, it's the height of hypocrisy. Get to the point. I'm just coming from the Senior Policy Committee meeting where we discussed information... But it's expensive. ...about the situation of older people in Poland, and there senior representatives positively assessed the perceived, real improvement of the material situation. The 13th pension - almost 10 million pensioners, 11 billion PLN received it. The pension is rising to 1,200 PLN. Real wage increases for our governments by more than 19%. During the years of the Platform's governments 2012 and 2015 (the bell) it was only 11%. What about inflation? Minimum wage increased by PLN 850. Minister! The opposition here uses a lie and please remind once again how much support the government of Law and Justice has given to a huge, very important group of Polish society, such as the Polish seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u120	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Crouching tiger, hidden dragon - that's inflation. Oh, my God. She's napping. She's growing more and more. She gets us when we stand by the store shelf. Last time I was in the store, I met an old woman, a retired woman who had 100 zlotys in her hand, and she wanted to buy products that she bought two months ago with those 100 zlotys. And he says, "I can't do it. My retirement isn't enough for those raises that are right now. [[Applause]] Bravo! Crouching tiger, hidden dragon-- that's inflation. But also the price of energy that you artificially try to suffocate. But they're gonna explode. They're already exploding in all the manufacturing companies that deliver goods to the store. 40% increase in energy prices for companies. It has to reschedule - and translates - into the pensioner's wallet, the little woman's wallet, who weptly left the counter, unable to realize the basic purchase wallet. Crouching tiger, hidden dragon - that is inflation, which will also eat our savings, which will cause our future pensions to lose value. If there is a fixation of such a system at the moment as e.g. in energy (the bell), sweeping everything under the carpet and pretending that this system, which is, is a system that makes it the cheapest energy, we will find ourselves in great danger. Time. We and our wallets will be very threatened by this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You're creating parallel realities. Yeah, you do. She asked what the true face of Law and Justice was. It's a yeast. Backup. I'll answer her. In the rule of law and justice, Polish families simply live better. [[Applause]] You asked, you said we've been dissuading people for four years. But how about a costume? So we discourage that under governments inflation was over 13% and under our governments - 5.1 . But you're mistaken. Not inflation, unemployment. Don't disturb me, sir, learn the economy. But you said inflation, you got it wrong. I'll answer you. I will answer you, my dear, that, in our time, your income for four years, your income, has increased by 146 billion. But you mistook inflation for unemployment. Ha, ha, ha! And in governments, 8-year-olds, revenues only increased by 53 billion. As far as family policy is concerned, please read the 2015 NIK report when your Member was head of NIK. You didn't have any comprehensive family policies. Now he's your Banana. Minister, I have a question. It's worth looking at specific numbers. How much was the disposable income per person in the household in 2015, and what is it now? What was the amount of support for one child (the bell) in the family in 2015, and what is it in 2018? Ladies and gentlemen, you're not gonna make it with this hucka and this subject that you're trying to push in the campaign right now. Yoga+! Government is not a hat and not a hucpa. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] How's it going on TVP? 2 billion for hats?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u124	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki from the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You should have said first that the entire PiS programme should be called: A sustainable budget - expensive+. Then we can talk about how this is a really good budget. Schab - plus 40%, potatoes - plus 70%, sauerkraut - plus 100%. That's information for the president. Mr. President, he's not here, but maybe he'll find out - we're making sauerkraut fried, which you like so much to eat with pork chops - you'll probably make Julia someday. Yes, sir. You'd think the government was leading an informed health-promoting policy. Not from now on it is known that traditional Polish dishes are not necessarily healthy. They're gonna get us or they're gonna get us, and they're gonna get us, and they're gonna get us, and they're gonna get us, and they're gonna get us, and they're Energy+, gas+, garbage+, water+. However, water is probably a downside, because there is little, critically little water in Poland, and the government's actions to change it have not been heard at all. The cost of living in social services homes is increasing dramatically. You don't know that. Go on, check it out. Meanwhile, in children's homes, hospitals do not hear about the subsidy+ program. You're just taking money from local governments. Self-governments are left behind. In order to fulfill their basic duties, they borrow, sell their assets. As a result of all these advantages, the profitability of small and medium-sized enterprises is decreasing. Today you had to be at a committee meeting, where future juice businessmen came in. What did they say? They exposed the Minister's lies about sugar tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result, you are about to face unemployment+, ladies and gentlemen. Come to your senses. Admit it, you can't rule. You're gonna take your toys and go back where you came from... Thank you, sir. ...to your sandboxes, Mr. Ziobro and Mr. Morawiecki, to the museums, Mr. President and Mr. Terlecki. [[Applause]] That's where you belong. Give Poland to the Poles until you have destroyed it. Time, time, time. Mr... One last minute. Mr... That's it. That's it. As the classic says: there are positive pluses and negative pluses. I am very pleased to remind you that in the category of negative pluses... Mr. Marshal, time. Mr... ...has recently won the PiS and your presidential candidate for president. I think that'll make you think. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u126	I have a request for you, sir. Yes? Perhaps it would make you think that there are other Members, and because you spoke a minute longer, a Member of the Platform just fell out of the last place. Is that nice? And I'll remind Mr. Marshal that the previous PiS messenger spoke longer. We want to talk, too, quickly and succinctly. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u127	Ladies and gentlemen! The Living+ program turned out to be a big blowout. ASF already reigns all over Poland. Electromobility was a failure. That's not the point. What do we have? We have a very efficient cost+ programme, we have a very efficient 41 new fees and taxes programme. Now it's fashion to call taxes fees. We have an energy+ program because Poles pay more and more for energy. And at this point, one basic question arises: What about the employees of the budgetary sphere? If we look at the same bill that was presented by President Andrzej Duda in 2015, it is 27%. higher than in 2015 Even the teachers you're so proud of didn't get a raise that high. What about the community workers? What about the court workers? What about the employees of all practically state institutions? When will they get a raise that will allow them to pay more and more expensive energy, water and food? It's very easy to raise taxes. It is very easy to decree, especially in the case of employees of private companies, the highest national lowest. But when are you going to take care of the people you're responsible for, the ones who are paid for from the budget? It's about time you guys finished the cost-plus program. 6% in the budget. I have one more concern. I am surprised that the Left is not interested in such an important programme from the point of view of all Poles, the cost-effective programme+. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Janusz Silchoń from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u129	We are talking about inflation, Minister, and it is in fact a tax, and it is a tax that is particularly severe for the poorest. Where does this inflation come from, and what is the government's share in it? You have to realize it's gigantic, because it's the PiS government that drives this inflation. Use of water in industry, agriculture and energy. Sewage, drainage of these waste water in agriculture, industry, bottom charge, rainwater, electricity transition fee, commercial property charge, financial institution tax, fuel levy, fuel levy, garbage - not all taxes you have introduced or raised. In the background there will be a cash levy, a retail tax. It's transferred directly to the prices. Poles will pay for this, inflation will increase. Plus, there's a sugar tax. You're talking awkwardly about how it's a promotion. Looks like we're dealing with this ongoing promotion on the PiS side. You say it's not a raise, it's a promotion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles approach promotion slightly differently. The same effects could be achieved by reducing prices if, for example, We're at sugar tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Greetings to the Ostróda group. Did I say that right? Good. [[Applause]] Bravo! There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u131	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You may not know how to scream, you will not interfere with reality. You're not gonna lie. The fate of Polish families, especially those of many children, pensioners, seniors - during the rule of Law and Justice their situation has improved considerably. They live a lot better, they can finally live a decent life. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also refer to my previous speaker, the lady who spoke about the budgetary sphere. There will be an increase of around 6% by 2020. You're the ones who froze the raises for the budget. Minister! I would like to ask you this question: How did the situation of Polish pensioners, pensioners under the United Right's rule improve and how much retirement has increased since 2016? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u133	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Every day we watch the PiS government, how good change looks into our wallets. Your assurances about the welfare that awaits us from five years ago are irrelevant. Starting with daily purchases of basic food products, we see an increase in prices, e.g. eggs - twice, sugar or bread - at least one quarter. As the population gets richer, their food expenditure should decrease, while food costs have increased. The average cost of buying basic food has increased by 27% over 5 years. So how do we get rich as a society if, despite higher wages, we can buy the same as five years ago? Here is an example of how irresponsible politics, which you are applying, influences inflation and takes away hard saved and earned money from Poles and Poles. But of course it's just one way to look at the wallets of Poles. Self-governments throughout Poland have a problem with their budgets, and the reason for this situation are the reforms introduced by you. You've reduced their income from PIT, e.g. in Olsztyn, where I come from, the return of PIT tax reduced the revenue of the city by PLN 37 million - that is 14%. At the same time, you've spent more money than you've learned from your salaries, which you're not compensating for in education. Another is to raise the minimum wage and leave the local authorities without any compensation for it. That's a dozen billion on a national scale. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the result of the government's populist actions. It's an attempt on local governments to put them in a negative light. Minister, why is it so much more expensive if it's so good? It's an expensive+ program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u134	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Paul Hreniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that the opposition country has picked up the topic of today's discussion, because really the Law and Justice have something to show for support for Polish families. Until 2016, there was no comprehensive programme of support for Polish families, which resulted, among others. the fact that in 2015 the indicators on the extent of economic poverty were at a higher level than at present. Therefore, the question to you from the opposition: How do you think when Poles, Polish families lived better - today or under the rule of the Civic Platform and their coalitionists? I dare say that Polish families are better off today. They point to this, among other things. The indicators I told you about. Minister, the question to the Minister: How many Polish children in 2015 and how many are supported by the state budget today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u136	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u137	Dear Marshal, Minister! Mr Fellowships and Members of the PIS! You're enchanting reality. It's all not true. It is even the GUS controlled by you in your data that shows that Polish families are getting worse because you can't manage Poland because you don't know economics. After all, Minister, in the first words, you admitted defeat. You said the PiS government has been doing a lot of work for five years. Yes, very numerous, but ineffective. That's the problem, you guys are bad at this management. After all, most of your speeches are about 500+. You whisper the reality that everyone lives well, and the facts are completely different. Exactly. What? We have proposed today's debate: expensive, not average inflation. And expensive is the price of basic goods: bread, butter, cheese, meat. What is purchasing power? And you behave like Jarosław Kaczyński's favorite politician Władysław Gomulka, who said in December 1970: So what if food is more expensive when locomotives and tracks are cheaper? It's hypocritical, isn't it? We're talking about the anxiety that a retired man feels when he walks into a grocery store. We're talking about how a worried pensioner opens an envelope from an energy plant to see how much electricity he's used up. We're talking about this... You have no shame. ...and you don't do anything about it. Minister Cichoń mentioned only a few taxes (the bell) you introduced or raised. At this session of the Sejm you introduce 41. additional tax. Mr... That's the reason for the cost. You give it to the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u138	Thank you very much. I am sorry, Mrs Krzywonos, but unfortunately I cannot give you the floor, because the potential time has taken Mr Artur Łącki. I'm sorry. But there were a few absent. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. But, Marshal, there weren't a few people, and they were pretty few. Mr. Marshal changes his mind. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thank the opposition for caring for Polish families, for caring for people, for the people of our country. I am pleased about this, although 8-year-old governments, before the Law and Justice took over power, did not show particular concern for Polish families. Therefore, I have questions for the Minister because you spoke about programs supporting Polish families. I mean, the 500+ family programme and the good start programme. Therefore, I have questions for the Minister. How has support for Polish families increased in general over the last 5 years? What is the increase in benefits per child? How much more money from the state budget is transferred to families compared to 2015 appropriations? And how did the share of support for these expenses for Polish (Dawn) families in gross domestic product increase? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The data is not discussed, the data is accepted. Exactly. The Central Statistical Office informed us that in 2018 the scale of extreme poverty... Extreme. ...up to 5.4% compared to 2017, when we had 4.3%. What's the motion, Minister? Polish people and Poles spend more on their livelihood... But they make more money. They make more money. ...than assuming a minimum of existence. And why is extreme poverty increasing? What does that mean? This means that it is expensive in Poland, ladies and gentlemen, and no arguments from the hall will change that at the moment. The problem is the biggest in a group of pensioners... They can afford more than they can afford in your day. ...in particular, High Izbo, when we're dealing with single-person households. There are more and more single-person households in Poland. Usually these farms are made up of older women. Second thing. Poles spend more and more on private medical services and medicines. 51 billion PLN per year, which means that statistically every Pole and every Polish woman spend 1.5 thousand. zł per year for private medical services and for medicines, needs that are not (Bingle) covered by the program.Leki 75+. Poles simply do not live 75 years, especially men. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u142	Thank you, sir. I apologize to Mr Rafał Adamczyk, too. If we switch, I will allow Mrs Krzywonos first and then Mr Adamczyk. We have to fit in 90 minutes. Mr Jan Mosiński, PiS. Law and Justice, Mr. Marshal. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Under PO and PSL rule, poverty had a child's face. Thanks to social programmes and 500+, extreme poverty has been reduced by 94%. When the cost of living and costing the PO-PSL government increased, the only argument from the rulers was firing smooth-bore weapons at protesting miners who defended their jobs and the right to a decent remuneration. These are facts. Minister! I have a request that the Minister, in his time, re-educate the opposition and point to a simple mechanism, namely the purchasing power of money, as regards the minimum wage relationship and the possibility of buying the goods, as well as the average and selected foodstuffs. Finally, a quote for the honourable opposition: The risk of poverty or social exclusion is falling as quickly as possible among European countries. Although 7 years ago we were on the tail of Europe, now the financial situation of Poles is better than Spanish, Italian or Hungarian. Who wrote this? Gazet Wyborcza. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. The Civic Coalition, which means not KO? Ma'am, I've already apologized for this, so I don't want to apologize again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u145	High Izbo! Minister! The inflation is for PiS, because inflation will save this supposedly balanced budget, and she's the only one who can save that budget. You confirmed it yourself because you didn't even care about any mechanisms or any government concept to control inflation. There's no instruments? There isn't, you think there isn't. I propose a thought experiment. Can a couple of pensioners or a couple of budget teachers afford to renovate their apartment? More than your government. Today the day of the specialist on the invoice - I say: on the invoice - it is 400 So it's beautiful? No, these are facts. The earning people the state pays cannot afford to renovate their apartment. The share of food in household expenditure reached 25%, again returned to this level. In Germany, which, according to the President and Prime Minister, we are about to catch up, that is 11%. You have to notice that. So I'm asking you what you're gonna do, for example. stabilise or stop this trend in the services market. What labour market mechanisms will you launch? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Oh, thank you, Marshal. And the applause is? All right. Come on in. There's no envoy? Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yeah, yeah, it's expensive. I wanted to start by asking the rulers why you did not prevent a great economic situation, which was also your participation, a situation in which today Poles and Poles pay dearly. But after what the Minister said, the question doesn't make sense, because you know you don't understand the basic economic principles. And with all this expensive stuff, it's just the beginning. What you're bragging about, the whole pro-family policy, all of your pros, has already been largely absorbed by the crazy cost. There's something left. The economic slowdown, I repeat, is a fact, and the effects of this slowdown are felt by Poles and Poles. You didn't listen to the opposition, you didn't prevent inflation, but you did. Last year's government actions related to electricity prices, raising the minimum wage, new VAT rates already aggravated the difficult situation. Look, there's a Polish saying: Whoever fights with a weapon dies with one. We don't fight. I strongly believe that in your case, you will go into a political absence with the motto: expensive plus. Thank you. [[Applause]] Lie plus. Great. I couldn't have come up with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska is added. Member, you're welcome. How's the estate of Prime Minister Morawiecki and his wife? Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr Rafał Adamczyk is added. Mr Marek Owa, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister did not say a few ways to deal with the cost. Here are some examples. The President of PKO Bank Polski earned over PLN 4 million last year, 1 million more than in 2018. May I? Yes, you can. His deputy, Max Kraczkowski, earned 2,600 thousand last year, 1.5 million more than in 2018. There is also another way to deal with the cost. Your envoy. Just like the PS activists from Lower Silesia did. They robbed the poorest of PCK money - 3 million PLN. That's another way to deal with it. Disgraceful! It is also possible to cope with the cost, just as one Member has dealt with it, who does not care about some. I would like to remind you that while in 2016 PGNiG's vice president earned over PLN 2 million. Mr Kowalski. But we don't care how the PiS do... Stealing from the PCK. ...in the companies they own. Because it was meant to be. We're interested in how people who work are supposed to deal with the cost. at one of the hospitals in western Małopolska. The hospital didn't get any more gold in the contract. He's been anesthetized. The Director must pay 25% More for energy, a few dozen more for garbage. He can't afford a raise. For specialization he gave the nurses a raise of PLN 30, says they can't afford any more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And yet nurses have to shop, too, and prices have increased by 30%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u150	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u151	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has introduced a number of laws over recent terms, meeting the problems of Polish families, which have led to a significant improvement in the situation of families, both in the material situation and in the situation of care, school base or preschool. Family support solutions, available in other European countries and considered to be standard for many years, have been completely marginalised by previous governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. We remember negative actions, such as VAT increases on children's clothes, babies from 8% to 23% and many other actions. Ladies and gentlemen, that was an expensive plus. I'll remind you, it wasn't. support for 500+, the other party, which would financially offset the cost provided by the Civic Platform and PSL. It was only the support of the Law and Justice government that significantly rebuilt the position of the Polish family. The government pointed out, of course, that children, families are the future of every nation, treating family affairs as priority actions. Today, families, local governments and other institutions can benefit from new forms of support through family-friendly law and justice policies. For example, in terms of availability (Bell) of childcare facilities for children. Time. Today the parent has a choice: Whether to stay home with the child, or to provide him with external care, for example in the nursery. Thank you very much. Where are the questions? Hence my question, Minister. What is the situation with regard to daycare? What's the so-called indicator? Feelings? Thank you very much, Member. Has the number of municipalities in which nursery or other forms of care for our youngest Polish citizens increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u152	Keep an eye on the time, because we're gonna have to get somebody off the list again. I don't want to do this. Sir, don't cut anybody out. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u153	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! One of the few things that came out of the PiS is the introduction of an ubiquitous cost. I say: introduction, because this is not a coincidence - these were systematic, planned, thoughtful actions. Or... 41 new taxes, new, complex bureaucratic burdens and uncontrollable distribution, which takes place at the expense of active, entrepreneurial, working Poles. And expensive: current at least 12% up, the prices of waste 2-fold, at least several percent, the charges to housing cooperatives - increase a dozen percent. Where the seniors live, a strong blow, and not because the cooperatives wanted to, just because this is the policy of the Prime Minister's government. Food - a few dozen percent. Finally, a jump to pension savings and 15% looting the funds collected for pensions. And, shamefully, expropriation of children and spouses from pension savings from deceased parents and spouses. This is truly a disgraceful situation. And this is a dramatic truth about the governments of Prime Minister Morawiecki and his government. And you're pretending to be propaganda, that nothing's happening. Who are you kidding? Who are you trying to mislead? Minister, we live in the same region, and you say that as if you didn't notice the cost that we also had. And this is the result of the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki and his ministers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is: Is this what it was all about so that Poles would have to wonder at the store, what to buy and how to survive again to the first? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! PiS is trying to curse reality because the PiS is really unrealized. Just go to the market, go to the store. You know what people say? As expensive as the PiS has never been before. And that's the facts. [[Applause]] They say... Bravo! And, ladies and gentlemen, remember, especially with the presidential election coming up soon. By 27%, this is the most important number, the prices of basic foodstuffs have increased on average. It's your fault, and you guys are doing it. What's the situation? Just a few months ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that electricity prices would not increase, ladies and gentlemen - they would not increase. What are the facts? They've increased by a dozen percent. You lie to Poles... The fact is, they get more money... ...and that's the facts. The price of butter by 40%, the increase in food prices year by year. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a record in the European Union. You're enjoying the record, and you know what the record is? Record of rising food prices by more than 7% year to year. These are facts, and you should remember that. But PiS is laughing at it, PiS is in a great mood. No, PiS isn't laughing. And you know why? Because really, the social programme of Premies+ for yours has been prepared in a fantastic way. You could at least recall the NBP bonuses or the last government bonuses that Prime Minister Szydło... Don't lie to me. ...she said they belonged. Yeah, they were because you didn't give them up at the end. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the truth about you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unlike some PiS politicians, I don't hide behind bodyguards and go out to people. I go out to people at the fair, I go out to people in the barn, and I talk to them. And you know what the main problem is... So what? ...Polish residents, but also Podlasie Voivodship? It is simply a common cost, expensive in shops. I can only say that in 2019 eggs, 10 pcs. - PLN 4.99, in 2015 - PLN 3.29, butter in 2015 - PLN 3.98, in 2019 - PLN 5.99. These two products are an increase of 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about vegetables and fruit anymore... Let's be serious. We're talking macroeconomic indicators, not egg prices. ...because they slowly become luxury goods and people can't afford to buy vegetables and fruit. And yet you introduce another tax, sugar tax, and the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and our country will pay even more for products. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u159	Thank you, Marshal. Let's start with a reflection. As PiS had to vote in favour of another tax this morning, another cost, the Left was complete and active, and at the moment, the only Member from the Left who spoke was Dariusz Joński. [[Applause]] Attack, otherwise you can't. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well how you will justify this, how the government will present it. He will speak like Minister Skurkiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, the government says: People earn more, they succeed well, they can afford it. But it is just as true as what Minister Skurkiewicz said in one of the local radio stations, and it was insolent: People gave more to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, because they were doing better. Ladies and gentlemen, this is bullshit. That's another bullshit. Of course. Poles like to share. Let me remind you that in 2015 you took Mr. Andrzej Duda shopping. He went, showed the receipt. Take him on this campaign, make him do the same shopping. Set up these two receipts. Let's see what it looks like. We'll show you the payments. You can also show payouts in Venezuela. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true - quoting or paraphrasing the words of your classic, minister, Marek Suski - that it is expensive throughout Poland. She's only in stores, gas stations, gas bills, electricity. It's all very expensive. And such a project, expensive+, you have been introducing in Poland for 5 years. [[Applause]] Bravo! Lie plus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition... Excuse me. I've been replaced, Marshal. The corrigendum I wanted... Here you go, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u161	I wanted to correct it. Mr President, I would like to say... To the barricades. ...that I wasn't the only Left in the O.R. You were also a marshal, but the marshal in this case can't speak, so I'm glad I could do it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u162	I see Mr. Joński is as brilliant and intelligent as ever. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm glad. Mrs Iwona Hartwich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to... Disabled... Would you please stop interrupting me? I can. Dear Party PiS! If you are so merciful, take off the income criterion - up to 500 PLN - for those unable to live on your own. [[Applause]] At all, I don't think you even know what it means to be incapable of self-existence. You include 500 PLN for social assistance and people are notoriously taken away by SUO, i.e. specialized care services. That's not true! That's the truth. That's not true! That's true, because a lot of people call my office and say it makes a lot of money. Please intervene. Here one of the piss messengers said she ate butter for 10 zlotys. The disabled don't eat butter. Disabled people eat margarine. Let me put it this way: disabled people in Poland today beg about 1%, collect plastic nuts. They don't have rehab tours, they don't have pampers, they're in four walls because they don't have assistants. Eight years of Platform. Today, the real face of the piss is a lie. in a lie. Scandalous behavior during 40 days of protest. These are the locked toilets, the windows. Society will never forgive you for this. And I wish you and the Swedish Minister always - next time, again - to be an opposition (the bell), because as you stood at our protests, you understood the problems of people with disabilities. It was supposed to be better. It's better. It's better. Thank you very much. ...and robbed a solidarity fund for people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u164	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Konrad Berkowicz from the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To begin with, I will quote President Andrzej Duda, who recently said: You must be aware that, as wages rise, prices also rise. These are unfortunately normal economic mechanisms. There's nothing we can do about it. The lady from the PiS nods her head. This is economics. You know what you're saying? That such are the economic mechanisms that Poles will never be able to afford more... They can afford it. ...because as wages rise, prices have to rise accordingly. The wages are growing faster. Of course, this is fortunately complete economic nonsense. In a normal country, purchasing power grows as technology develops... Yes. ...the economy is organized, the bureaucracy is decreasing, which prevents entrepreneurs from building the economy of this country. So Poland is an abnormal country according to the Member? But because of you, the Polish economy does not work under normal conditions. That is why President Duda, who is not an economist, believed that prices must rise as wages rise. Poland is a normal country. It is not a normal country because you are constantly raising taxes, imposing taxes on products: recently VAT on mineral water, now tax on sugar, suddenly excise duty. Please do not insult Poles, Poland is a normal country. You raise product prices, you raise taxes, and you have to do it because you're using irresponsible handouts. Stop robbing Poles of money so they can make benefactors for themselves later. Nobody's raking anybody. You want to help? For your money. Thank you very much. What's your money for? Which government has their money?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is a normal country, has a democratically elected government. The facts are that Poles live better. [[Applause]] That's what the statistics are talking about. And as my previous speaker said, the economy is growing, prices are rising, and wages are growing at an even faster rate. It's a normal law of economics. I have a question for the Minister. Ha, ha, ha! Yes. Has the average wage increase and programme support translated into the situation of households? The total opposition is questioning the facts, and the facts are not discussed. The opposition had the slogan to make things better. Who? Friends. And we introduce rules and funding to make it better for Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister! Our economy really is one of the leaders when it comes to development, in Europe, in the world. And that's the facts. And thanks to it, salaries really increase, and above all, there is more respect for each Pole. And for that, Minister, thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u168	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska. I allow Mr Aichler and close the list because we have to finish the questions in 15 minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Minister! The 500+ flag states are not subject to valorization. I've been reminding you from the beginning. That's why I tried to compare it all and see what you could buy for 500+. Ladies and gentlemen, when Poles and Poles, families, got 500+ it turned out that their satisfaction was so great that it could not be described, while not all families got 500+, even though they deserved it. But now we've looked into what we can buy with gas, electricity, drugs. It's just a tragedy. It's a tragedy. The gas stopped, the gas stopped because... Wait a minute. Don't bother me. Now, ladies and gentlemen, after all this time, I just wanted to say that you're a man, you have to be a man forever, so I know my place, I go to the markets, I meet people, and I know what hurts them. I wanted to invite you to Kashuba to see how many children are hungry. Please intervene. What do local governments do? Therefore, please answer me the question, do you think, however, to introduce a 500+ valorization? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u170	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Left and Members of the Left! Ladies and gentlemen! Ha, ha, ha! I see I've put a smile on the face of a fellow coalition member, but we're here, and you can see us. However. However. About the marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Today I had the opportunity to participate in the Senior Policy Committee, where we learned, because we received such material from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy containing information about the situation of the elderly for 2018, and from this material we learned that in 2018 7.5% people over the age of 60 were professionally active. We think that it is important to consider clearly why and from what such activity results, whether it is due to too little pay for pensioners and pensioners. The second issue that took place during the Commission's work is the information that was given to us, that the monthly expenditure on one pensioner is PLN 1501. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the lowest pension is 1,200 PLN, and therefore, 1500 PLN is definitely more. I think we should reflect on the Left (The Bell)'s request for the lowest pension to be $1,600 for every pensioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u172	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Romuald Ajchler, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u173	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! High Seym! I would like to thank Mrs Hartwich for what she said about those whom you are treating - and here I am addressing the right hand - of people with disabilities. It's just a disgrace for you... As much as you can. ...and you should fight deep in your chest. You don't know what you're doing to these people. As you can be. But you also need to know that this might affect you. And I wish you health first. Hypocritical. High Izbo! Do you have any idea how much the meds cost, especially painkillers? Because we're talking parsley, butter, etc. The usual Voltaren, which is very advertised, which is used by those who are in wheelchairs, costs - one tube - 50 PLN. You're being ridiculous. It's a shame. It was 40 percent expensive in three months. Don't you see that? You should pay attention to this because you have an influence on this power. I'll just forget what you've done with the disability fund. Not just me, but most of all, these people won't forget it. We created this fund. You must know that there will be a crack on Matyska. Thank you. [[Applause]] He'll come, he'll come. We created this fund, and you didn't want it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u174	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. Member of the Commission, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u175	Again, Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be good to discuss the issues that are most severe for Poles really fairly. Uh-huh. It is impossible to argue honestly because the Members of the Law and Justice live in their bubble. You really do not know how Polish families live, how families live with children, especially young families - and I will give you an example - how pensioners live. And how they lived 10 years ago. I agree with you in the part where you say salaries are rising and pensions are growing. The problem is that there's really not much left to live with. You can't accept it at all, and that's a big problem. The fact that Poles living in extreme poverty are more than that, we all know, because I already talked about it. This is about 2 million more people. The fact that the poorest pensioners are almost 4 times more than in 2015, I have already told you. The fact that these power surges are affected by your irresponsible policy... Yours. ...because you put mostly on coal, destroying really renewable energy sources without supporting them, too. Finally, I would like to talk about young people, those who start families and whose dream is, for example. Having your own roof over your head. This country you've destroyed, for example. The apartment program for the young 'cause you took him out. Thanks to this program, over 100,000. In fact, beneficiaries can already have their own roof over their heads. You guys aren't just... Singles. Mr Marshal, I am really disturbed by the Member. I'm trying not to look that way anymore. I'll try to focus, but... I'm not looking either. Well, thank you. Member, but I don't think that's cool simply. Because if you were here and you heard it, you'd be rude too. I'm in a situation like this a lot. Okay, but let's not take bad examples, let's take good ones. Look at me. Let's get started. Thank you very much. Ha, ha, ha! Thank you. And here's another example. You didn't just liquidate this program, because it might actually be manageable, but you've added, especially to these young people, a bank tax. And it is today that these young people have to take loans with higher commission costs, handling fees and still have to take insurance. That's what it looks like. That is why I want to make you aware that, yes, the wages of these young people are rising, but also for example. The credit they have to take on the roof, which will be for their family, is simply more expensive. This is the example that, I think, should perfectly illustrate how these costs increase. Little more than that, you have charged this Polish family with additional costs, as if there is not enough for it. See, the electricity charge - suddenly there are really more costs, e.g. the power charge. In the case of fuels, we have an issue fee. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to electricity bills added to the final customer, we have a transitional fee. These are all taxes, tributes that you actually collect from Polish families. This causes that today the cost of living Polish families is much, much higher. You're talking about 500+. We already said that of this 500+ stays actually less than 300 PLN. The Minister spoke of nursery and kindergarten. After all, if it weren't for our program, you wouldn't have created a program today that created more of these facilities. It was thanks to us that they were created. As a result, families don't have to organize time differently, employ nannies for a few jobs. At least for some children there is a place in the nursery. Kindergarten - we're the ones who introduced kindergarten for gold. This is a real system aid for all Polish families. Think about it - I appeal from this place - how to reduce the cost of life of Polish families. The increase in wages is unfortunately eaten by the rising prices and costs (the bell) that you fund. As a Polish Government You can't handle the galloping price. The year 2020 can be even dramatic in this area - I am talking about it from here. Minister, please take this problem seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u176	Thank you very much, Member. I'd like to invite the Minister. Minister, 10 minutes for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all your questions. I will immediately address the statement made by the Member who spoke before me on the "Milch+" programme. Madame, you have spent PLN 150 million on the programme, we are allocating PLN 450 million. Why do you say we'd like to close this program? That's a three-fold increase in expenditure. That's not what we're talking about. Tell me the facts and don't tell me anything that absolutely doesn't exist. 150 million. 450 million zlotys are allocated to the programme "Maluch+. Flash index, which was at a very low level of 13% It's up to 26% at the moment. In the following year, it will increase to the level to which we aim in the first stage - to 30%. This is the first information I've given you. Of course, I'm not going to refer to the fact that you've come with the motto plus, and underneath that is the whole narrative. It's a puriazum, saying that we're forcing someone to raise their prices. I haven't heard any more ridiculous things, but maybe that's the tactic you've taken. As far as inflation is concerned, in 2019 inflation was 2.3%. The wages increased by 7.3% in 2019, i.e. wage increases strongly consume inflation. Let me give your examples again: inflation at a similar level, wage growth less than inflation. You may have acted a little differently when it comes to inflation issues. There have often been questions about the poverty rate and I can tell you with all responsibility that the poverty rate, the poverty rate in Poland has fallen dramatically thanks to the programmes we are implementing. When we talk about extreme poverty, it is calculated on the basis of household expenditure. During these 4 years, the so-called. disposable income in our country has increased by 10%. In 2015 it was almost 79% Now it's 70%. That's 10%. more money can be spent on savings, credit, etc. If later the CSO examines the rate of extreme poverty, it is slightly higher - it has increased from 4.7 to 5.3. In absolute numbers, that's very little. But if we look at revenue growth, then of course revenue is higher and these indicators in Poland are falling. An example is this year's issue of the valorisation of pensions, which is already accepted by the Senate. Thankfully, the Senate hasn't made any amendments, but this project can go to the president. We have inflation of 2,3%, but the wage rate, which is counted as 20% valuer. , was 4.8%. It made the valorization rate higher, but higher due to wage increases. It's not because of inflation, it's because of wage increases. These salaries compensate for what we are discussing today. I will repeat once again the issues related to pensions for the weakest groups. We have changed the principle of the valorisation of pensions from an amount pension to an amount-percent pension, ensuring that this year at the level of 70 zlotys gross the lowest increase in pensions. This will apply to all those who have pensions at the level of PLN 1900. And that's the goal we're aiming for. In the last 4 years the minimum pension has increased in Poland by 40% from PLN 880 to PLN 1200. This is a big leap, but as if in previous years it was consistently also raised, today we would talk about a completely different indicator. Valorisation plus 13th pension - 22.5 billion PLN this year will go to pensioners. There was a question about the 500+ program. We can show you what it looked like. In 2015, you allocated 2 million to support children, including 2 million children. We in the 500+ program cover all children up to the age of 18, i.e. 6400 thousand. children. The amount that we have allocated since the beginning of the programme is PLN 95 billion, which have already entered Polish families. The programme is consistently implemented. This is a very big support and it also compensates in some way for the issues we discussed. I was talking about disposable income per person. In 2018 it was almost PLN 1700, earlier - PLN 1600, i.e. growth, and in 2015 - PLN 1300, i.e. by PLN 400 real revenue growth over the 4 years we are talking about. It is also important, I think, to provide information on these programmes which are related to social assistance, because of course, the weakest groups also include social assistance. As far as families are concerned, 700,000 people benefited from various forms of social assistance in 2018. families. Compared to 2017, this is a drop of almost 100,000. people, i.e. despite increasing the income criterion, the number of people who benefit from social assistance is falling. The topic of minimum wage and labour market situation was raised. We have to decide whether we want to raise minimum wages or not. We believe that the minimum wage must equal half of the average domestic labour, and today we are fulfilling this condition. We are also debating the European minimum wage and this is also the way to increase wages. It's also important in all of this that you've drawn different scenarios... We have the lowest unemployment since 1990 - 5.5% on a Eurostat scale of 3,3% unemployment. So unemployment is falling, and the number of workers is also increasing, which is that the economic situation is very good. We have the largest number of employees in the economy right now, over 16 400 thousand. This also shows that the path we have chosen is effective, because we have low unemployment, good GDP growth and, at the same time, we carry out a lot of social, family programs that support families, support the retired families, support families who can benefit from this programme. There was a tax issue. Let me remind you, we reduced the PIT tax from 18 to 17%, introduced zero tax for all young people employed until 26 years of age. These are actions that show that this way, on the one hand, we support the possibility of creating new companies, employment, and on the other hand we lower the tax, as in the case of PIT. There was a question about the budgetary sphere. This is where one of your messengers has responded. A 6% increase this year in the budgetary sphere. But this needs to be remembered. For eight years, you've frozen your wages in the budget area, and today there's a huge gap in this sphere, a gap that we're filling. The crisis was. Yes. Everything can be explained beautifully by the crisis, only at least inflationary wage increases could be, would be different. There's been a setback, Minister, a setback. As far as raises are concerned, these raises are - 6%. There will be even higher levels of action in some departments. So on the one hand, we support directly in the budget, and on the other hand, there is the issue of cover measures. Covering actions, let me remind you, we have introduced in terms of rising energy prices. In 2019 the energy price did not increase. Thanks to our actions, the price of energy has not increased. That was action. To protect those with the lowest income. Questions have been asked to support people with disabilities. I'll remind you of the 500+ program for people who aren't independent. With a criterion, with a criterion. More than PLN 27 billion will reach people with disabilities in 2020. And this is a big leap forward, which doesn't mean you don't have to solve other problems. No, because you're taking people... The issue of support for people with disabilities. As I said, the expenditures in this area are higher and they make us look different today. The programmes that are under the Solidarity Fund are and will be implemented: a programme to support the creation of care centres, rest and care services. These actions are and will be undertaken. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no threat to their implementation. You're lying. Thank you for this debate and for these questions. I think that I have presented you with a whole range of actions which the Law and Justice Government is undertaking regarding the support of Polish families, and this support is very large. I will repeat once again the increase in family spending: in 2015 - 1,7 GDP, 4% in 2020 GDP goes to family policy. This is a huge increase in spending on family policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz, as corrected. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u179	Thank you. I'm very short. And then we're done. Minister! I know that both the programme is on the ground, but I didn't say that you either eliminated or wanted to liquidate the programme. I said that the state had abolished the "Youth Living" programme on housing funding. MdM. MdM. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u180	Thank you for the correction. Minister, thank you. Thank you, Members. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws (prints No 171 and No 198). I would very much like to ask Mr Aleksander Anczynski to present a report to the committee. Mr President, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, prints No 171 and 198, was introduced to the Sejm on 15 January 2020 and then addressed to the first reading in the committee. I would like to draw attention to the urgency of this project. The proposed regulation aims to implement Directive 2016/2370 and to correct the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2012/34 in the national legal order. The rail transport market was opened to competition in 2007 and the international rail passenger market was opened in 2010. This Directive also opens up national passenger transport markets to competition by granting fair access to rail infrastructure in all Member States for the purpose of rail passenger transport. These objectives of the project are to be met by the amendment of the following laws: 28 March 2003, 8 September 2000 and 16 December 2010. Main solutions introduced in this project. Firstly, the introduction of a definition of a vertically integrated company. According to the Directive, a definition of this company is introduced to determine the model of the relationship between the infrastructure manager and the carrier, where these entities are capitalised, commercially and organisationally, in the manner set out in the provisions of the Regulation. Secondly, strengthening the guarantee of the administrator's independence, e.g. by requiring the infrastructure manager to maintain a separate legal personality from railway operators and, in the case of a vertically integrated undertaking, also from other entities within that undertaking, and by limiting the ability to commission the infrastructure manager's tasks to other entities. It will not be possible to commission the manager of the railway carrier or the entity which is controlled or controlled by that carrier. It is a number of prohibitions concerning the merger in the case of an infrastructure manager and a railway operator of a specific function or the taking up of management positions. Thirdly, ensuring the financial transparency of the manager, inter alia. by banning the payment by the administrator of dividends to the vertically integrated undertaking which controls the manager and the railway carrier, as well as the prohibition of mutual lending by the manager and the railway carrier. Fourthly, strengthening the supervisory powers of the President of the Railway Transport Office, including by entitlement to request information from the manager on the lack of capacity or supervision of the negotiations subject to infrastructure access charges and on the conclusion and execution of cooperation agreements. Fifthly, the change in open access. Resigned, among others. the definition of the main purpose of the service and the related research. The possibility for the President of the UTK to decide whether to grant open access, to grant limited open access or to refuse to grant open access has been indicated by letter. Sixth, improving the efficiency and transparency of the infrastructure management allocation process. It is about the possibility of negotiating the charges for access to railway infrastructure, changes in the monitoring of punctuality, compensation due to train delays, the obligation to cooperate, information to other infrastructure managers if there are disturbances which may affect cross-border traffic in the case of railway infrastructure. Other changes in the provision of a service facility include taking into account the rules on access to railway tracks located in a service facility, including ports, the obligation to declare the use of a facility for hire or lease which has not been used for another 2 years and the authority to assess directly concluded public passenger transport services contracts. The appointment of the President of the UTK to act as an independent body to assess directly the agreements concluded in the field of rail passenger transport, on the basis of those provisions, shall ensure that additional verification of the correctness of the decision taken by the organiser on the direct award of contracts is possible. High Izbo! In the course of the work of the Committee on Infrastructure, which examined the draft law at first reading on 28 January 2020, a number of editorial and legislative amendments notified the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which was authorised by the committee to adopt and introduce it. In view of the above, I ask the High Sejm to adopt a government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws as adopted by the Infrastructure Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u182	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Mariusz Trepka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, respectively prints No 171 and 198. The proposed regulation aims to implement Directive 2016/2370 and to correct the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2012/34 in the national legal order. The main solutions contained in the project are the introduction of the definition of an integrated enterprise, strengthening the guarantee of the independence of the railway infrastructure manager, ensuring financial transparency of the manager. The financial transparency of the infrastructure manager, in particular the flows and settlements between him and the carriers or other entities forming part of the vertically integrated undertaking shall be ensured. The supervisory powers of the President of the Railway Transport Office are strengthened, the efficiency and transparency of the allocation and management of infrastructure are improved. Other changes are related to the provision of a service facility. The infrastructure manager shall be required to declare the destination for the lease or lease of a facility which has not been used for a further 2 years. It is also referred to the designation of an authority to assess directly concluded public passenger transport services contracts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the aforementioned. the proposal, including the proposed amendment, and of course it will vote in favour after taking into account this amendment, which I am now putting into the hands of the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u184	Thank you very much for the correction. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This is not a bad bill, because every law that cements our relationship with other countries of the European Community, the European Union, improves the security of our country, but also citizens. This law ties us more closely to the European rail networks. Good. However, the question arises as to whether this law does not contain certain errors, whether this law, although implementing the 2016 directive, does not cause perturbation, and this perturbation in the field of the flagship project of Law and Justice, which Prime Minister Morawiecki is talking about without interruption, the Central Communication Port. Why? Because the law introduces a new definition of passenger transport by high-speed rail, simply from the directive. Passenger transport is those which will be carried out without intermediate stops between two locations located apart at a distance of more than 200 km on railway lines specially adapted to a speed of not less than 250 km/h, performed on average at such a speed. And now what's the problem? The problem is that the Aries, where the Central Communication Port is to be located, lies 30 km from Warsaw. It lies on the proposed line Y. This line Y follows from the 2013 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the TEN-T network. This double Y is outlined in the Annex to this Regulation, which is an obligation for Poland to implement this line by 2030. From Baranów to Łódź it will be 100 km. This also does not fit in the definition proposed in the law. What does that mean? This means that if we accept these solutions, it will not be possible to carry out high-speed rail transport in Poland. Perhaps that's what the government wants. I don't know if you're the minister. But you didn't go to the trouble of explaining the discrepancy between this definition and the definition that is contained in two other European directives, e.g. in the regulation I already referred to in December 2013 on the TEN-T trans-European transport network. We're talking about high-speed lines here. These are specially constructed lines with equipment capable of driving at speeds equal to or exceeding 250 km/h, as well as specially upgraded conventional lines with equipment capable of driving at speeds of 200 km/h. There is also a third option: specially upgraded high-speed railway lines with special features due to topography conditions, terrain sculpture, for urban reasons. What does that mean? This means that if we leave this definition, which you accept without reflection, there will be no high-speed railway in Poland. This means that we will not fulfil the commitment under the 2013 TEN-T Regulation. The Civic Coalition therefore proposes two amendments. One further thing is to delete this definition and start a dialogue with the European Commission in order to eliminate these contradictions with (the Bell) different directives. It's the government that should do it. These contradictions are perceived by the naked eye. The second one, which is not so far away, is to modify this definition by introducing the following text: high-speed passenger services are services carried out without intermediate stops between two locations situated more than 200 km or less than 200 km, if the connection between significant transport hubs is concerned. The CPK is to be such an important transport hub. Mr President, 46 seconds are up. But the marshal will agree that... Sir, we're done here. ...it's supposed to be an important transport node. I'll say yes when you're done. That's why we're helping the government eliminate this mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u186	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Matysiak to speak. There you go. Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The procedated changes contained in the government bill amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws are purely regular in nature and, unfortunately, do not bring much in terms of improving the state of the Polish railway. The basis for real railway reform in Poland should be the transformation of the national railway infrastructure manager of the Polish Railway Lines SA into a government agency, following the example of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. For nearly 20 years as a result of the Act of 8 September 2000 on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Company Each year PKP PLK SA must allocate PLN 2 billion to the depreciation of its fixed assets. In 2018, the costs incurred by PKP PLK for depreciation amounted to more than 1/4 of all the company's costs and this is its main cost position. Let us answer the simple questions: Is it in the interest of the public limited liability company to carry out large investments if, therefore, its assets increase and thus the depreciation costs increase in the years to come? Why aren't EU rail funds spent as much as they could be? Why are there enormous delays in railway investments that have already been criticised by the previous government? The current legal situation causes that the business plan of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe S.A. for the years 2018 to 2023 assumes that the basis is to balance the business. The pursuit of balancing the railway infrastructure manager's activities in the form of a public limited liability company causes a number of pathologies. The first is to abandon many investments that would be possible in a different legal state. Imagine the situation in which the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways becomes a commercial company, there is not another bypass, road or highway, or, worse than that, we are eliminating some national road, because the company, let's call it for this discussion, the Polish National Roads SA, optimizes its assets to reduce depreciation costs and improve its balance sheet. Does it look like a bad dream? This is unfortunately the reality of the Polish railway for 30 years, so-called. sharp cut. And some important facts. The Polish railway network in 1989 is over 25 thousand. km of railway lines, the Polish railway network in 2019 is only 18 thousand. km of railway lines. In the last 30 years, we have eliminated 1/3 of our rail network. And this is not just about Hawk-Zdrój, Łomża or Mielec, to which Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki likes to refer, but about thousands of stops and stations in small or larger cities and towns that have been cut off from the world to optimize the PKP's assets. Can you imagine a situation in which the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways would eliminate roads and motorways? I don't think Minister Andrzej Adamczyk would last one day in his post. Yet, contrary to previous announcements under Minister Adamczyk's rule, further railway lines in our country are being liquidated. The next pathology resulting from the current legal form of the national railway infrastructure manager is the rates of access to the tracks. In order to balance its activities, PKP PLK uses one of the highest rates in Europe. High costs of access to railway infrastructure are borne by both freight and passenger carriers. Rail becomes less competitive, rail freight costs and ticket prices are increasing. The result is that the Polish railroad travels more than three times less passengers than in 1989 and still several tens of millions less than before the 2000 reform. This is not what modern states look like, sir. This can be changed, but we must finally start treating the railroad the way we treat the roads. The railroad should have a level playing field. And that will only happen if it is not burdened with an additional financial hump. This project doesn't talk about it. You're dealing with little things instead of fixing this basic problem. The repair of the railways must start with a good organisation so that, finally, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, a government agency, which will be responsible for railway stations and infrastructure, will be set up. The Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will vote in favour of the solutions you have adopted and proposed because they clarify legal issues, but we will be submitting our draft amendment to the Rail Transport Act (The Bell) during this term of office, because we take this subject seriously. The railroad, after many years of neglect, deserves real support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law introduces a number of amendments to the Railway Transport Act aimed at implementing directives and strengthening guarantees of independence, impartiality and transparency of the operation of the railway infrastructure manager. The proposed changes concern the possibility of commissioning the tasks of the infrastructure manager to other entities, the way in which compensation for train delays is determined, the conclusion of framework agreements between the applicant and the infrastructure manager, the rules for the provision of service facilities, the elements of the business plan, the definition of the vertically integrated undertaking, the transparency of settlement between infrastructure managers and railway operators. The proposed solutions aim to open up the market for national rail passenger transport services to railway operators from other European Union countries, which will increase competitiveness in the rail passenger transport market in the European Union as a result of equal treatment as regards the right of access for all interested parties irrespective of the Member State of origin. The solutions introduced eliminate existing restrictions in this area. In addition, Chapter 2aa of the Act adds the guarantees of independence and impartiality of the manager, which limits the ability of other railway market participants to influence the infrastructure manager, in particular railway carriers or operators controlling those carriers. Solutions are introduced for this purpose, among others. restricting the existence of conflicts of interest, restricting the ability of the manager to delegate tasks to other entities, ensuring transparency of financial flows and settlements between infrastructure managers and railway operators. The draft law extends supervisory powers of the President of the Railway Transport Office concerning inter alia. negotiations between applicants and infrastructure managers in the event of their conduct, conduct or initiation of audits and requests specific information on the separation of accounts, supervision of the conclusion and monitoring of the cooperation agreement between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking. In addition, the project appoints the President of the Railway Transport Office to act as an independent body. Its tasks will be to assess directly concluded contracts. The project under investigation is an important part of an extremely important process of opening up the rail market in Europe, a process of course with risks, but also a series of development opportunities. Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the draft law amending the law on rail transport and some other laws, of course with amendments tabled by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u190	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to ask questions. Eight people came in. Would any of you like some more? No. I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Polish from the Parliamentary Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no safety on the railways without providing workers with good, comfortable working conditions, decent wages and without ensuring that their employees comply with labour law. This is particularly important at the time when other foreign entities appear on Polish tracks. Without the driver, the train won't go. Meanwhile, the driver earns PLN 1680.1690 gross with the state carrier plus allowances. This is not a competitive rate that would encourage you to take this job, a very difficult, very demanding one. Unfortunately, there are too many times when drivers' working hours are exceeded. There's a shortage of people. Engineers have to work overtime. There is a lack of trained staff, and the training process itself, as the drivers say, is not effectively designed. Engineers also talk about absurdities, e.g. They have a minute to think about it or take the locomotive. Let me remind you that the trade unions have already addressed the Ministry in these matters. So my question is: Do you want to take care of workers' rights and good working conditions on the railways with our national carriers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been 30 years since I told you to shut down the railroad lines. But in 2016 and 2018 the dismantling was ordered, i.e. the final physical liquidation of a total of over 360 km of railway lines, among others. from Sulechów to Świebodzin, from Skoków to Janowiec Wielkopolski, from Ścinawa to Legnica, from Kamienica Ząbkowicki to Złoty Stok, from Brodnica to Kowalew Pomorskie and from Wolsztyn to Żaga by Nowa Sól. The last example, the physical liquidation of railway line 371 in summer 2018, is the most outrageous. The liquidation of the line took place despite the assurances of Minister Adamczyk and Minister Bittel of 2016 and 2017 that there would be no further liquidation of the railway lines, and despite protests by social organisations and residents. When will you finally stop the process of winding down the railway lines? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few days ago, we learned about the project "Strategic localization study of Central Communication Port (SSL)'investment. The construction of 196 new railway lines is planned in the Wielkopolskie Voivodship as part of this programme. The new course of the high-speed railway is extremely unfavorable for Ostrów Wielkopolski. In fact, it excludes Ostrów from strategic connections with Wrocław and Poznan. In fact, it is the demolition of the Ostrów railway node. Therefore, I have a question: What is the reason for this solution? And is it possible to place Ostrów Wielkopolski as part of the CPK program? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I cordially invite the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that this law is binding on European rail networks. Nevertheless, I would like to ask. If the Central Communication Port is 30 km from Warsaw, is this a good location? Isn't this where the mistake was made? I would also like to ask, if we accept such a definition of transport, we will take high-speed trains in Poland at speeds higher than 250 km/h, because I have great doubts whether we will have high-speed trains at all. Please state your reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The mask is dropping. This bill proves that you are not thinking about connecting the central rail port to the high-speed rail, which, as defined, travels at an average speed of more than 250 km/h, means that it must develop a higher speed than those 250 km/h, taking into account stops. Why is the government cheating Poles? Why does the government present an unrealistic project that provides for the construction of spokes, which will be high-speed trains, when it adopts today's draft law, which eliminates the chances of this project being implemented in practice? The mask's down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are entering such a phase that when it comes to the Polish railways, it will be competitiveness, because we are opening up to the European market. My first question is: Are we prepared for this competitiveness and what can we overcome potential contractors wishing to operate on Polish railway lines? For a long time, the railroad was scarce, and very much so. There were billions of zloty debt. She didn't invest for long, so we took out all those lines. Here such digression: all the time we complain about 40 years of People's Poland, and we cannot even recreate the railway lines that were built at that time. I'm not talking about new railway lines anymore, which are a total abstraction. I ask for this competitiveness: Will we stand it, or will we artificially block (the bell) contractors from other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. A few days ago, you introduced an initial network of connections to the Central Communication Port. Why is there no connection to Bielsko-Biała in this grid, no connection to the southern part of the Silesian Voivodeship? This is once again when inhabitants of the southern subregion of the Silesian Voivodeship, inhabitants of Silesia Cieszyński and Bielska-Biała are discriminated against. For several years we have been waiting for the revitalization of railway line 190 between Cieszyn and Bielsko-Biała. So far we are looking forward to this revitalization, and now another blow: you are hitting the solar plexus of the inhabitants of the southern region of the Silesian voivodship, preventing us from reaching the Central Communication Port. Thank you so much for your answer. I hope to receive it, me and the people of my region.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir, for hitting the solar plexus. I invite Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. I would like to ask if high-speed trains will go to Gdansk at a speed greater than 250 km/h. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u206	Thank you very much. And when? There's no point in asking, because it's far away. Mr Jan Mosiński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u207	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for this very good project, which will be implemented, because it de facto brings many towns closer to this fast track of communication not only with the Central Communication Port, but also with Europe. I just have a question: in this project, will these 10 spokes, these stations, these towns, which will be passing places, but also by stops, by stations, be maintained? It is not by chance that I ask about the city of Kalisz, which is included in this project. Isn't there going to be any change here to the detriment of my city? Thank you kindly. We have a culprit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u208	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel. Minister, you have a lot of work ahead of you: 250 km/h, Bielsko-Wiała. Specific answers. We wait for you and keep our fingers crossed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u209	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I've listened to discussions and questions. Honestly, I'm... Happy. Luck hasn't left me lately. I know, I'm right next to you. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: That's not bad. We're definitely gonna be some kind of TV show star. But back to the point, I thank you very much for this interesting approach to the law that implements the IV railway package, the market part, the EU directive of the Council and the European Parliament, which concerns the market, market regulation, guarantees the independence of infrastructure, infrastructure managers, studies on the economics of relations, connections, vertically integrated enterprises, all the things that connect with the market. This Directive does not concern technical issues. Therefore, the statement by Mr Grabarczyk on issues relating to high-speed passenger transport is absolutely on the car. I'm saying that in response to the passus about the drop mask. If you hadn't said it, I wouldn't have said it. No. Because if you read the article for that definition. 11a of this directive, you will learn that this definition concerns regulation and market regulation research. Period. And it does not concern whether a train going from Lyon to Avignon, then to Aix-en-Provence - thank you to my colleagues for telling me how it is pronounced - 67 km, to Marseille - 18, to Toulon - 49, to another village with a very difficult name to pronounce - 23 km, to Saint-Raphaël, to Cannes - 9, to Nice - 17... Is this a high-speed train in France or is this some kind of mechanism that doesn't apply to this? Moreover, the 200 km parameter - probably you know this too - was introduced in the European Parliament between July and October 2016 at the request of Mr Sassoli, an Italian MEP from the socialist faction, and was adopted. But to train design practice and then schedule it will not apply. It will apply to the investigation whether an alternative route and this commercial traffic... Will the regulator approve such a relationship - this will apply, not to whether it will be possible to stay in Łódź, in Baranów, in Jarocin, in New Scalmierzyce... There's no tracks there. There are no tracks in the Aries. But they will be. But they will be. Whether in Sieradz or in Łódź. But Leszno... So much for what's in the igrec-related materials. It's kind of a matter of... Oh, you'll be in all the contact lenses today. The Member is very helpful in this, of course. I don't watch, but maybe somebody in the family will. To get back to the point, I would be very calm about how this definition is intended for high-speed rail. If you look at these connections, which are in Western countries, which are said to be high-speed rails, you can find few connections with an average speed of more than 250 km/h. In Belgium we will find such a connection. This would mean that this directive and this definition in this directive prejudice that in Belgium or Luxembourg there will be no large high-speed rail services, because the country's spread is what it is. So I explained what the definition was for. As regards issues related to the way PKP operates Polish Railway Lines, I also feel that this law does not apply. We can conduct such a debate: Is it better to have an enterprise, an organizational unit in the form of general management, or a public limited company that operates on the stock market, balanced by the State, is a missionary company, has a special significance... But he's subject to... ...is specially regulated in law? We can discuss. That's interesting. There's no job issues either. They are very important and since 2016 there have been increases in wages, and the care of railway workers, the restoration of dignity, the uniform, it is a concern that they have the best job and pay - all this constant action by the Government of Law and Justice. You can't see, you can't see. The Member doesn't see it. It's okay. 360 disassembled railway lines. A kilometer. A kilometer, yes. Madam, I ask that we make this clear again. If you had a car that didn't pour oil, coolant and other essentials into it, didn't pump the wheel, stopped functioning, then... What does the car have to do with the tracks? ...a rational economy, a rational host, once this car basically destroys, it's the rest that's gonna sell, right? On the other hand, it should not have been allowed to decide whether to terminate the railway line. That's it. It's not about getting the junk that someone's gonna steal. It has to be distinguished, one from the other. If we can tell the difference, the argument is that the government is disassembling, destroying the railway lines... Yes, physically you have to undress the exploited, no one needs anything, no one to re-use the railway track, you have to undress it. But to keep what we talked about at another law, at the Railway+ Act, i.e. The real estate corridor so we don't build it so we don't stop it, so that later it can recreate the railroad. Not using these materials or tracks 50 years ago, because they're not gonna do that nowadays. This needs to be distinguished. How do we tell the difference... I thought I had already explained this to Mr Suchoni, but now I must explain to Mrs Matysiak. Why aren't we running? Why aren't we running? Let the Member ask this question to his colleagues, who have eliminated 2300 km of railway lines. From the EU funds now we have... I do not know exactly what 196 railway lines Mr Szczepański was talking about in the context of the CPK and Ostrów Wielkopolski. There's a concept... In Wielkopolska... 196 new railway lines. I think the discussion about the CPK, which took place yesterday at the committee meeting, was more conducive to this question. Mrs Płępek asked about the location near Warsaw. I think I answered because it's a good location. Will you answer my question? No, I'm not gonna answer because it's gonna be a CPK issue, right? Mr Dyduch asked about the reproduction of railway lines, whether we would meet market conditions, whether we would be able to function better in this market thanks to this law, whether we were prepared, this was the question. Of course, we are preparing for this and we need to make up for less than 30 years when this railroad actually rolled, as Mrs Matysiak rightly pointed out, compared to 1990, we have 336 million passengers at the moment, and it was nearly 1 billion of its time. But something happened over the past 30 years. We're excited about this growth, this is the best score in 20 years. Of course, we have a lot of work ahead of us in common, as I assume, in this area. But I'm also allowed to say that if it weren't for the time People's Poland, if we were comparing ourselves to Western Germany, it would probably be better. That's probably also the reason why we have this socialist approach to state property now. Non-regulation of property issues, non-regulation of state-owned assets causes us to have, for example. problems with the communication of railway lines. That's what the PRL has done, that's all. ...but you were waiting for the work of the Polish People's Republic. There wouldn't be a thousand... Good. As regards Mr Koperski's questions concerning the Bielsko-Biała merger, consultations are underway, please engage in them and act in this respect. As far as we're concerned, if we're going at 250/h, over 250/h, to Gdansk, I can say yes. We will design new railway lines, taking into account geometry and parameters higher than for 250/h, but whether and when we go this way depends on whether such a need arises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u210	Thank you very much. As corrected, Mr Grabarczyk. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u211	Not enough. The rules are two minutes, Mr. Marshal. Charek, that's enough. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I like to argue with you. You loved the railroad, and you can see that. But you will admit that in the budget for this year we have 12 billion for rail investments, and almost 10 billion comes from the European Union. [[Applause]] And the example of France, Belgium, Spain is not adequate because they already built these railways, and there was no definition that limits the concept of high-speed passenger transport. If we include this definition in the bill and ask for funds for the construction of an igrek or one of those spokes we are arguing about on another occasion, they will say no, because you will not be able to achieve this goal, you will not go there faster than 250 km/h or you will not retain another parameter, distance 200 km. That's the argument we're in now. It is worth considering (the bell), it is not too late.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u212	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Koperski. Gentlemen, come on, let's cut a deal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You didn't answer the question about the revitalization of railway line 190. Instead, you talked about being more involved. You should be involved because you are in the government. I am involved and hope that the Polish people will tell you thank you, and in a few years, and maybe a few months we will be able to connect the city of Bielsko-Biała also with the Central Communication Port. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u214	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Anczynski, rapporteur for the committee. Come on in. Don't feel sorry for yourself. Take your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u215	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would very much like to thank you for any questions put forward, and above all the Minister for an exhaustive answer, after all, the questions did not sometimes concern this law, but the Minister answered them. As for speed, I also live in the Pomeranian Voivodeship and I believe that I will one day take a train at a speed higher than 250 km/h, Member. On the other hand, the dispute that we are having here does not concern this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u216	Thank you very much. Minister, you have two more minutes. You're gonna take advantage of this, aren't you? You're welcome. Oh, you're putting yourself in danger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u217	I've been putting myself at risk all my life somehow, my fellow Member. And back to the point, I'm gonna say it again. If France had implemented this directive, if this had affected the movement and route of trains, it would have had to change the timetable that is currently in force. And it's quite obvious that it's something else. Yeah, they got it. The definition concerns Article. 11, comparing commercial transport over 200 km at an average speed of more than 250 km/h to alternative scooters, in short, in public service. Period. Line 196 is a regional line, so it certainly belongs to the relevant marshal's regional operational programme. This regional perspective was designed by the Marshal in 2013 and 2014 so if this line is not there at the moment - this information for Mr Koperski - it must be sought in the next perspective. And so I reached with my surrogate memory, so I asked my coworkers, and it seems to me that the CPK material is broken by Bielsko-Biała, so please pay attention to it too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u218	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This regulation concerns, inter alia, allowing rail carriers from other EU Member States to operate passenger transport within our country. What is the Ministry's view of foreign carriers' interest in passenger services within our country? How many proposals have so far been received by the UTK or the railway infrastructure manager? I would also ask for information on the reasons for such a significant delay in adapting Polish law to the EU rules adopted by the European Parliament at the end of 2016. I would like to point out that the deadline for implementing the provisions into national law was 25 December 2018. Does the European Commission therefore plan to impose sanctions on our country?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u220	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations (print No 133). I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to present the reasons for the bill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! I'm gonna use a little private time like this, and I'm gonna turn to Minister Bittel. Do not forget: line L25 is renovated and the state has not entered the station in Mielec into its program. It's kind of private. Minister, remember to pick up the Member. There you go. Minister! L25, Mielec doesn't have a train station, and it's been a long time until 2024. It's outrageous. Okay, here we go, Member. To know each other. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And going to the project, I would like to say that on behalf of the applicants, I am very pleased to present a bill amending the law on inheritance tax and donations. I also had such pleasure in 2006, when the Civic Platform club first applied for the first tax group to have inheritances and donations not subject to tax - in the first tax group. We made a big bow towards them and then the ruling coalition agreed to this solution. I would like to say that, by amending this law in 2006, when it comes to its first submission, we took a big step towards such justice, that if something is being built together in the nearest family, it is often a small property that has to be paid a second time, because if we are building a house or if... [[Applause]] Bravo! [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] It's for me. Oh, that's a marshal for you. When you come down, I'm sure you'll get it. We'll share. I'm glad. I'd like a round of applause at the end. As for the group of the closest family, when we mostly buy a house, the apartment for the money that comes from work, that is, we paid income tax when we build an apartment and also pay VAT, we agreed that within the immediate family there is no inheritance tax and donations and that there are certain rigors to make it disclosed, legal, so that there is no illegal movement of property. But then we forgot the foster families, the foster children, the foster children, the foster children's homes, the fact that the children, but also the foster parents are also the closest family. We wanted to correct this error and I thank Mrs Krzywonos-Strycharska for this initiative in that term. [[Applause]] Bravo! I presented this in the plenary session of the Sejm on 16 May 2019. You, surprisingly, hesitated in front of your immediate family and said that you must count it very carefully. It's not like it's a tax where the proceeds go to the budget. The proceeds of this tax are for local governments. In order for you to know, before this solution was introduced in 2006, it was so that if the wife or husband were dying, the common property had to be paid tax. We changed that. And today, with ties between the closest family and foster families... Children from the family homes of the child, from foster families and their parents, who are so concerned about each other - to this narrow group - to make this right - we are trying to direct this solution. I just want to tell you that you shouldn't send it back to anyone else. You should decide that for the first time. You said then, Mr Janczyk, I remember, that this must be consulted with the government. Some things aren't consulted. Some solutions are not consulted by the government, and they are introduced. I am directing this question to your sensitivity. Shouldn't foster parents have the same rights as biological parents? These are children from the family homes of the child and parents who raise children and should be able to give them a tax-free donation or other specific assets. Be fair. In this group of carers, we cannot distinguish between people who have special ties, biological families, and not foster families. I have a big request for you - in the previous term there really was a chance to do a good project - so that after this reflection - from 16 May ub. to this day some time has passed - they could add to it the last rational brick so that children from the family homes of the child, from foster families and their parents, so that their relations... The point is that inheritances and donations are not subject to taxes. I'm sure the local authorities will agree to that. We have taken a big step when it comes to support for a large group, now it is a small step, but an important solution. And sensitivity. If you're sensitive, and that's what I'm asking -- I'm rarely asking, and I know that sometimes I have a different opinion than everyone else, but I think... I am glad that we are talking about this the day before Valentine's Day, and I hope that on 13 February it will not be unlucky that on 14 February this love for foster families will be present for children from family homes. I appeal to all of you. We have a chance to do something good over division. Please don't charm us, you're not trying to say that the government has to speak in this case. The government doesn't say much about a lot of things. That depends on your conscience. Thank you very much, Mrs Henryce Krzywonos-Strycharska, for the initiative and for the steadfastness of this matter as well as in many others. Henia, we all thank you. I hope that we will all support this conclusion in this House, because it is rational, right and comes out of a great deal of love. Let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u222	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have been honored, and I also have the pleasure, perhaps even the joy. It's rare when we have laws like this. You can ask where the inspiration and source of such actions and actions, including legislative action, come from. Certainly from the family home, certainly from our experience of life, but also - and I would like to emphasize this opportunity - from the heritage of our nation, culture, also confession. I do not know if this fits, but I would quote as the motto of my speech and this issue a significant passage from Isaiah. Here he is: Woe to the law-makers of the ungodly, and to what they have decreed, to push the weak away from righteousness, and to rid the poor of my people of the law; to make the widows their prey--and finally these words--and to rob orphans. Whoa, whoa, stop, let's not get ahead of ourselves, somebody will say, but still. However, care to see the most vulnerable in society, and these are undoubtedly biological orphans, but also social ones, are people, children and young people who are in foster families who are in family and other children's homes. Indeed. And glory is this, and I bow my head, and -- may I congratulate you -- that is a bad word -- thank you. There is also a messenger from my district, Mrs. Henryk Krzywonos, a historical figure, who knows for what reasons. I want to thank you very much for this. I guess I don't have to say at all, everyone expects that in this case as little as possible - that's also a good example - we'll be together. The problem is perhaps not the substantive details, but the legislative refinement, but there is full agreement here, that is obvious. In my opinion, it is a matter of nature - this time flies like this, and I would like to touch a few other things, interesting - to a large extent practical, but symbolic, for these people important, because the burden of quality is not huge. I don't know, there's no great friend of mine Krystyna Skowronska, she could say that before these fundamental changes, before the inheritance tax exemption, this tax was a few hundred million. It is not a powerful matter, but it is of great symbolic importance. I'm gonna try another accent. Maybe I'll head towards the Left, not this Left - I hope - caviar, but this more social, social, because we are ideologically very different, but in social matters, I hope not. What is it? We didn't see those orphans and the weakest, but we didn't see the richest ones either. It is true that Poland is one of the few countries, really, very few in which the amount of the upper limit has not been introduced, with the total release of the closest ones. [[Applause]] I think there's still time. This is not a leap on the rich, it is an elementary standard adopted in very rich Western democracies. In general, looking at how in the mirror income and wealth taxes is a good opportunity with this wonderful gesture, late, let's add, towards the weakest ones. And we're all happy for you. This shows that we can speak with one voice in good things. And it gives us hope. It is a small thing in this Polish-Polish fight, in the presidential election, but I am very happy. I'm very happy and I'm looking forward to it. If we don't do this, we'll wait together, hopefully it won't be so soon that the Left comes to power with Adrian Zandberg, but I don't think there's a bad place for goodness. I hope that in every political formation, and you are proof of this, because this is a contractual neoliberal environment, you can bend over and make this gesture, more than a legislative gesture, towards the weakest. Forty seconds is really the time to say goodbye. I have waited for this moment, but once again I ask and encourage you to discuss whether it is fairer at all than it is today or less unfair tax systems. This dispute will be fought. There are colleagues who consider extreme: from all taxes to exempt or not. It's not like that. I encourage you to read Piketty, which gives a huge boost to positive inspiration these days. Mrs. Marshal, I have to finish, too bad, because I'd like to expand here, but I can't, there are tough rules and brutal rules. Once again, I thank the government (the bell), my formation and all those who will shake hands in this matter. Forward. [[Applause]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Justification for statutory changes in inheritance tax and family foster care donations, print No 133. In most cases, children are raised in foster care throughout their childhood. In many cases, a child in a family home or a foster home considers his guardians to be real parents, and vice versa, caretakers view them as their own for the rest of their lives. Therefore, it is highly unfair that when a foster parent prescribes his property in the form of a will or hand over a donation to a money or in kind to an independent or a full-time parent during the life of the caretaker, they must pay tax on inheritances or donations as an alien belonging to the third tax group, i.e. in full height. At the same time, I would point out that an adopted child or a stepson is not subject to this tax obligation. Parents or foster parents in a family home should therefore be able to make donations or wills of their children without putting them under tax charges, which they probably simply cannot afford. in the event of receipt of real estate in the form of an apartment. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition calls for the Sejm to accept legislative amendments which give the legal opportunity, in agreement with both parties, to include a specific former foster child in the foster family or family home into the first tax group in the tax system, recognising this as socially fair for children raised in the foster care system. Ladies and gentlemen, my husband and I raised 12 children. When we received them, they were small - Luke was one and a half years old, let it be an example - lost. We accepted six natural siblings - children who had no chance of adoption - stayed with us. We changed their name, we showed them how a normal family works, without regretting anything, even though as a family we were accused of all sorts of wicked things, that we make money, that we do business. Today's business is called 500+. Then we tried to show our children what a different world means, what it means to go abroad, what it means to learn a language, what it means to know... what a house means, what love means. Believe me, folks, it's not easy for 12 kids to get on their knees at once, hug and tell them they're loved. I did it in a kind of way. Sometimes I think I did it like a Korczak. Working with a child's attorney, I was just wondering if it was some kind of harbinger - the fact that I took these children. After all, as a signatory of the August agreements, I didn't even think about starting a family for a while, but it did. And today my children are my children still, we still have 12 children and we still help them when they demand it. Therefore, please - think with your heart and help us all, and me, and my children, and not just me. 43 seconds left. I'm gonna tell him about you who's begging me because he's dying in Wejherów, in our parts, and he keeps saying, "I've got a babysitter." My kid's turning 18, and I'd like to leave, but I'd like to leave him his apartment. He can't afford tax. Therefore, I ask on behalf of myself and my children, my various children, and on behalf of this gentleman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u226	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel like this is the rare moment in the Seym, when we can actually do it together. Do something good. Thank you for this moving speech by Mrs Henryki Krzywonos, which showed how important a matter we are to decide and what injustice we will be able to do, shows a great deal of this, and effectively corrects it. I am very pleased that today we are dealing with a project that can limit and really help thousands of people who really deserve this support. We have no doubt that the Polish state should support foster families, families of children. Those who take up the challenge of raising their children in foster care deserve all the support they need. They certainly do not deserve to be discriminated against by the Polish state. Unfortunately, there is still this state of affairs. Under the law of succession, these close individuals are treated as strangers. And that's something we need to fix, because, as far as I understand, there's an agreement in the Sejm. All the more reason to thank the initiators for this important project. [[Applause]] With regard to the proposed content of the legislation itself, a few things could also be improved there, for example, that this is an amendment on the part of the Act introducing exemptions from the tax. You could just type it into an article. 14, where general provisions are laid down in the case of tax groups, in order to make this important change more universal. That is why we are also voting in favour of referring this important law to further work, so that we can work together to develop solutions which will be universal and sustainable, which will really help this group of people we are talking about. There's one other thing. The provisions in this law are so formulated that they relate to inheritance by children, by parents and not to the other way. The other way, too. If we recognize a close relationship between the parents and the foster child in this relationship, it is important to ensure that it also works the other way, in order to really treat them as loved ones, so that the foster parents can inherit from their children at this point in time, i.e. to make sure that this situation is equal to the situation that is taking place in the case of biological families. I would yet like to appeal to the words that are dear to me, I am not hiding, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. Since we are repairing this one injustice, which is contained in what the Polish inheritance law looks like today, it is worth remembering, also reminding ourselves of the latter, that the Polish inheritance law does not distinguish at this moment the inheritances in the amount of 1 thousand, 10 thousand. Or even 50,000. PLN and billions of fortunes that are inherited in a completely untaxed way. This is an event so that we are aware, on a European scale. Progressive inheritance taxes apply in all European countries. Worldly. Australia. The world's known, so be it, it's the world's known. There is no doubt that the role of the government is to ensure social cohesion, to combat social inequalities. We would not want to wake up one day in a country where the poor are born and remain poor forever, and the rich are born rich and remain rich forever. The role of the state is also to eliminate these differences. It is by the way those very necessary changes that we are talking about today, but it is also worth remembering. Today we are repairing one injustice as regards inheritance law in Poland. Let's remember to fix the other one. Once again, full gratitude to the initiators of these necessary changes. [[Applause]] Let us make sure that children in foster care, foster care, in foster homes, are no longer discriminated against in children's homes. This time we'll do it together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the applicants, the initiators, Mrs Krzywonos, the rapporteur. I think that someone like who, but the Member has a unique right to take this initiative to the Sejm, I think in Poland. I will refer to the wording in the explanatory memorandum. In such a very transparent, legible, correct way, they define the purpose of the legal solution, i.e. exemption from tax so-called. acquisition of property or property rights by inheritance or donation, acquisition by persons residing in a foster family or in a family home. Of course, this record is necessary that the donor or heir was the person who created the foster family or ran the family home of the child. As the speech here was made, foster parents often spend their entire lives in this foster family or in the family home of their children, that there were relationships like parents and children, hence it was a great injustice that they could not pass on a certain resource, a certain support, a certain expedition for future self-life, an adult life in the form of a will or other donation. Those who received it were treated as so-called. the third tax group, and they had to bear additional, often large, expenses. A good example was the case with Mrs Krzywonos when the gifted one would not actually be able to pay the tax due. Hence these solutions. They may come late, but better late than never. I think the atmosphere here today is building. It's good to have more of that kind of situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I may spoil the atmosphere a little bit, but I think it's hypocritical. Cymanski quoted the Bible here, but there is no need to reach that far in tax matters, but the seventh commandment is enough: don't steal. That is exactly what I would like to say, because, of course, this law must be supported and this small section must abolish this absurd tax on inheritance and donations, but the very idea of inheritance and donation tax is absurd. How could one even think that at the moment a person hands something to another person, e.g. A dying person decides to hand something over to another person, or a non-die person just wants to give something valuable to another person, and then you put your hand on it and take the racket? How can you do such a thing? And how does this work in practice? In practice, it works in such a way that if I give a loved one something valuable from the heart's needs, that person for accepting this precious thing must pay you a fee for accepting a gift. In six months' time, if this person repays me and gives me something valuable, I must pay you a fee for accepting this gift. We swapped the goods, nobody even made any money here. Some may think that income tax must be taken away for every income of the citizens, but nobody even made a profit here. And both of them paid a racket for giving themselves something. The state is signaling: don't give, or it will be taken away from you. It's best to keep your pot and not give it to anyone, because it'll be taken away from you. Because it's gonna be taken away from you. It works in practice, it's not a hypothetical example. Let's get weddings, weddings. In Poland, wedding couples are being chased by tax offices quite seriously. They come to the couple's wedding tax offices, they're being chased because after the wedding they didn't settle the donation tax. They ask how much they got in envelopes and what gifts they got. It's the law, isn't it? And in practice, this is not the income of this couple. It's just how tradition works. This is an economically significant situation. People in this situation are making themselves economically important for the couple to have a good start, and then this couple for the next dozen years of their lives goes to dozens of weddings, and in fact this loan that they received at an economically significant moment, is given in gifts. The fact that people help each other as part of the tradition of giving each other financial gifts at weddings is taxed each time by the state. Wedding couples are really being chased. Of course, tax on inheritance and donations must be abolished. Of course, he needs to be put up with. At weddings. Also at weddings. Yes. Of course, it must be abolished, but I note that not only wedding couples are prosecuted in Poland, but also all citizens are treated unpleasantly, what such a symptomatic eruption is what is called the PIT tax form. Have you noticed what his name is in Poland? It's called a tax return. Who is testifying in Poland? What does that word mean? A criminal or a witness to a crime is testifying in Poland. Suspect. People in Poland are treated in advance as potential criminals because they earned something or got something. This is how we are treated in Poland by the fiscal apparatus. This, in my opinion, is due to the fact that the Left and the PiS often vote together in economic matters. This is due to what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said some time ago. He said this: We can honestly say to ourselves that this thought, the working socialist thought, is deeply in the philosophy of Law and Justice present. This is unfortunately our misfortune. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project has long been expected. It is not based solely on legislative correctness and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. In fact, the foundation of this bill is sensitivity, heart and love, but also wonderful, how rich the experience of his author Henryki Krzywonos. I'm glad I could work with you on this project. It's a great honor to meet you. The project aligns the rights in terms of exemption from inheritance tax and donations, people raised in foster families and family homes with the rights of families, i.e. parents, initials, descendents or siblings, so that this social justice finally reaches an apogee. I am pleased that this project has been approved by each side. Perhaps (the bell) will be a project that will open the next gates and gates to common legislative achievements, which will not only result from the success of this room. First of all, the beneficiaries will be Poles. But I have a question for the applicant... But please... Yeah, I'm asking. In the process of evaluating this project, the Polish County Association asked whether the pupils of care and education institutions could not be beneficiaries of this draft law. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u234	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u235	Dear Marshal! I will respond to Mr Dzikowski when I speak as the person representing the applicants. Yes, sir. Today I have a question for the government. The fate of this project will depend on what position you will take today. Despite the declaration of the whole plenary room, representatives of all clubs will count on your position. I am not talking about the Association of Polish Districts, the Association of Polish Cities - cities and districts, local governments are beneficiaries of this tax - only about the position of the state. It is important that there is no such thing as that one of the Members will report that it needs to be worked out for a long time. We have already wasted some time on the submission and omission of this group in 2006 last year. Maybe it was an accident. That's what I'd like to believe. But today we are looking forward to a positive position and I would ask that this be the case in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a favor to ask. I wanted to thank my colleagues for their warm words, but I have a question: Can we speed up the completion of this bill because of this gentleman from Wejherów, so that he may still have the chance to give his child, whom he has raised since the beginning of his life, to raise to this day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u238	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my view, it is very unfair for foster parents who are treated as their own children to pay a donation tax. That is why I believe that pupils should have the same opportunity as biological children or stepdaughters. There is a great deal of respect and appreciation for all foster families, and it is up to them to decide their wealth, who they will give it to, but their children, their pupils, cannot be discriminated against and punished by tax. Mr Cymanski! I am in the Seym for the third term and I agree with you for the first time. I look forward to a joint positive vote and thank you very much for this positive vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, too, to my colleague on the bench, Henryce Krzywonos, for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u240	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm addressing the author, Mrs. Krzywonos. Thank you very much, on behalf of all the children that you have presented here, above all, so that they do not have to pay taxes, because, as we know, there are many entities exempt from donations tax. Some were given two luxury cars and did not pay tax recently, and here the children were burdened with it. But I have a proposition, because this bill... I'm having second thoughts, because when it comes to some things, they could be improved. There's a motion to move on to second reading, but if you can't, Marshal, make peace with that, I have a proposition for you. Well, you could set a time limit for reporting, if necessary, in order for this law to be adopted at this meeting. This would probably be for the benefit of this law, as well as (the bell) and the author of this project would be pleased. Bravo! This is, I think, a good direction and a good proposition from the Left, going in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u243	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prof. Maria Szopatkowa, who is unrelenting, talked about heart pedagogy, about the fact that children, young people need love, belonging and security. And what you proposed today, Mrs Krzywonos and the Civic Coalition Club, is this. that is also the satisfaction of this need for security. It is about the possibility of inheriting from people closest to them, such as those who had family homes, which led to the so-called. foster families. This is absolutely important and this is also part of what Professor Szopatkowa said. But it must also be said that this is not a first-time project. Exactly 2 years ago, on 12 April 2018, your Member was in the same place and persuaded us to do this project. We have been persuaded (the bell), we support, we sign these two hands, and the problem was that this side of the room has done absolutely nothing in this case for two years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Finance welcomes the project for both the purpose and the recipients of the tax exemption on inheritances and donations. At the same time, however, due to some inconsistencies in the proposal, some of its provisions will need to be clarified during further parliamentary work, including the comments raised regarding parental inheritance from foster children. On the subject of speeding up the work carried out here in the Sejm, we declare our support and readiness to help with the proper revision of the rules. Thank you. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u246	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u247	In the name of the heart, which was the applicant for this submission... Mrs Krzywonos-Strycharska convinced us to do this. In her personal example, we could see what it looks like to be divided, a solution: biological families - the first tax group, children and parents from the family homes of the child, from foster families... Any personal experience that serves the right solution in the law is absolutely right. I would like to thank all the clubs for their sincere, good discussion, for their positive intentions to solve a problem that we unfortunately did not notice in 2006. But maybe it's a bit of a shame... I will not talk about the damage to the last term of office to solve this problem. We're in a new situation, here's the declaration. I also thank the Minister for his declaration of cooperation on this project. I would like to tell you and answer the questions raised to you. Why is it that this project does not provide a solution for pupils from care and care institutions? There's no parents there. There's a lot of concern for the kids, there's a heart, but there's no connection, there's no kinship. So if we want to refer to this symmetry of the first tax group, we're just proposing... In reply to a friend from the Left, we solved it in such a way that this project will work for both children and parents. The previous project did not have such a comprehensive solution. This one had, but if there is any need for clarification, we are ready to cooperate with everyone. In this discussion I liked - because I'm sure everyone liked it - the issue of wedding gifts, baptism gifts, this tradition. We didn't find that possibility. But if there is an opportunity in the future to regulate a custom with which it would not be a problem to document, we are also willing to support such a solution. In the case of institutions or pupils from care and education institutions - this is the answer to the question by Mr Walda Dzikowski. We were talking about the deadline - Mr Ajchler said about the benefits of this law and the timing. If he does, we're ready to talk. If he is. Here I am asking the Minister: to consider this today - because this vote shows that we want this solution to be implemented quickly. We also treat them as corrective. It is rare that the law or law works backwards, according to the principle: lex retro non agit. In this situation, incidentally, if we agreed and there were no protests related to the entry into force, we are inclined to regulate in the transitional provisions that it has been operating since 1 January this year. We are able to make an amendment that would meet, in transitional, inter-temporal rules. We were wondering how things could be solved. I would like to remind you that the law on inheritance tax and donations has shown one element: a documented way of handing over the donation, a documented way of handing over the inheritance. In this respect, even if customs are different, we have a very strict law after 2001 related to anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. We would not want this law, which has a specific purpose, to be passed without tax among the immediate family, to be a clue, connected among others. with money laundering. That's the only thing holding us back. There was no other way to record a documented way of handing over an inheritance or donation. So there is an exception to very low donations in a very broad group, where there is no need to document this. If we are talking about a general solution, in this respect we have agreed that these will be donations to the account, there will be a declaration of acceptance, there will be a presentation to the tax office that such a donation is received, or such a decrease that we are heirs, it is about drawing up a specific agreement. Once again, I would like to thank you for this debate. If that's possible, and we're still working on this project in the Senate, Marshal, because we don't know... This is a short, well-designed bill, to which we return once again. If we agree, if such a date is set, then in this one case, I think, no one will protest against the tempo to which we are accustomed in Parliament. This law deserves to be given a good pace and wait for a good solution, and that was the Minister's declaration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u248	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made for the Sejm to set a deadline for the submission of the report. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (print No 32). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u249	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am in a different role: not as the head of the club, not as a Member, but as one of the citizens who signed the bill on internship pensions four years ago. 115,000. the persons submitted this project in 2016. Unfortunately, because of the tardiness of the Sejm of last term, by freezing this civil project, it could not be completed to proceed over it. During the past term of office, an internship pension could not be adopted. That's 115 grand. the people, and much more who support the pension scheme, have not been able to meet the Sejm's promise of serious treatment of civic projects. It is a good thing that these projects are not discounted and are proceded over the years, in the subsequent terms of the Sejm, as is pension without tax, which we presented on behalf of the Civic Committee on our own initiative. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak did this in the Seym last term. Now we're going to discuss internship pensions. This project, of course, even due to the date of entry into force which was proposed, needs to be amended. These four years have been wasted in this respect. The committee work wasn't used because she was almost gone. This project was not rejected at first reading, and very well, but only through respect, I hope, all parties to civic projects, not for other reasons. Unfortunately, those who spoke of support for this did not want to continue. I hope that this will change during this term, and we will do everything we can to lead to the introduction of internship pensions. That is why, in addition to this project, we have tabled, in agreement with the OPZZ, a representative union headquarters which is sitting on the Social Dialogue Council, a newer project meeting the social expectations, taking into account the changes that have taken place over the last four years, taking into account the attention of the citizens that we have gathered during the non-proceding of the civil project that was frozen in the last term. Therefore, allow me to present the philosophy of internship pensions and talk about two or even three projects, because the third project concerns agricultural pensions. The latter two, concerning internship pensions and agricultural pensions, were submitted as parliamentary projects by the Polish Coalition club during this term. They complement and address certain shortcomings or are changes that have been due to the time that has elapsed for this civil project. So the parliamentary projects that I hope will be presented at the forthcoming Sejm meetings are, as if, a continuation of the internship pension project. Why internship pensions and to whom are they addressed? First of all, to those who work hard and start working at a young age, they start working, and it's legal work. This is one of the great values of an internship pension that encourages employees to pay their contributions and create conditions for the employer to be able to pay off these contributions. So he's pulling out of the gray or black area workers who have arrived on trash contracts in the last year, self-employed, on contract orders. Unfortunately, these workers arrived in 2019. That was the first increase since we were able to limit the contracts of the order, to cover them. Those were the years 2014 and 2015. Nothing has happened since then. So it is very important to reduce the scale of employment in the grey area, that is the first thing. The second thing is that it is possible to choose for hardworking people who often start physical work at a young age when they want to retire, but already with guaranteed higher retirement benefits than just minimum benefits, because these periods of contribution... This bill deals with 40 years for men and women. In the complementary project, which I think should be a leading project, this is 35 years for women, 40 years for men, and the minimum age that should be introduced is 55 years for women, 60 years for men. This is also after comments made by the constitutionalists, submitted various kinds of organizations, OPZZ listened to it. Here I would like to mention one person on the occasion of mentioning the OPZZ, I think for many known, on the right and on the left side of the room, about the sleep. Janie Guzie, Chairman of the OPZZ, who was the author of this idea. OpZZ was the first to leave. Sleep. Jan Guz died last year. A lot of us were at his funeral. I think this is also some of his will, the union that is implementing today - this is a continuation - another president of the OPZZ, Andrzej Radzikowski and his colleagues. So it is very important to show the conditions and give a choice so that it is not just an opportunity to raise for a minimum pension, for which it takes 25 years for men and 20 years for women, only to guarantee it at a higher level, but also to be able to decide. What will be the next positive effect? The increase in revenue to the budget from the fact that people will register, there will be more registered work, will be Coming out of the gray and black zone, there's no underpaid, there's not gonna be a situation like this because it's gonna pay off. Today, not only the retirement age, or perhaps more often just the internship and the contributions paid, have a huge impact on the value of the subsequent pension. You may have different opinions, but you can't escape this topic in the perspective of the next generations, because the burden for a generation of 30 and 40-year-olds in the 20's, 30's, 40's. The 21st century will unfortunately be higher due to demographic change and an ageing population. This is also a start for the debate that should take place during the presidential campaign. About pensions, about pensioners, but also about young people, because this bill is for young people - and those working, and those who are working, they started working today - what will be their burden on their parents and grandparents in a moment and when they will be able to benefit... at all what pensions in Poland. We're talking about a tax-free pension. I hear that President Duda is also planning to submit a similar internship pension project. Good. It is good that this campaign will discuss the future. The future of the young generation, the amount of retirement - today and this future - and the burdens, so such a debate about the future of the pension system, the pension security of Poles and Poles and the financial security of the young generation should take place. Presidential debate. From President Andrzej Duda through all the candidates, by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, who is leading this meeting today, and everyone who has been reported. I, of course, am ready for such a debate. It's a start. This bill is a good start and a good reason for such a debate. More positive effects. Increase in revenue to the National Health Fund for health insurance contributions to the Social Insurance Fund. Reducing the expenditure of local government for all kinds of social assistance, because there will be another type of social security for these people. Reducing the social costs associated with preventing the increase in the number of socially excluded persons, i.e. those positive effects not only for individuals, individuals, insured persons, but also very positive effects for communities. For the self-government community, which responds, which today is very financially drained. There is no money for investments, because the local government has to add more and more money - as estimated by the Polish Teachers Association last year about 10 billion - to the task commissioned by the government. It's never been added so much in history. So the self-government community is deprived of part of the expenditure it could use for investment. This will make these investment opportunities bigger, because there will be no need for such involvement in social assistance or in the fight against social exclusion. These are the economic, positive effects on the state budget, on the Social Insurance Fund, on the National Health Fund, which is also for all those who will benefit from health services, and these are largely people of a dignified, mature age. We need to have a serious discussion about the pension system and about how to make choices. This internship today makes an extremely precise contribution to our entire social security system. Without that, without thinking about it, it will be difficult to propose better solutions today. And what's probably going to happen in the next few weeks is going to be very important, as the ruling majority is going to do. You have a majority in the Seym. I guarantee we'll do it in the Senate if you vote it out in the Sejm. Please be calm, this bill will be accepted by the Senate. I'll make sure of that, and I'll seek the support of all the senators. All you have to do is vote and lean really hard. There's a chance that President Duda is about to file this bill, so maybe we should work on all three laws. It is still about the Farmer Act, because this citizens' law also refers to agricultural pensions. These two new complex laws are divided: this is the act concerning insured persons in the CSO and those who are insured in the CRUS. And here we propose not only the possibility of retiring after the introduction of 30 years of contribution, as it is today, we only return to this age, which was, 55 and 60 years old, by 2018, but we remove one condition, which was reported by insured farmers, hosts at meetings not only in the last parliamentary campaign. I think it's been reported to all of us. It's an indication of the transfer or disposal of the holding. This premise may have been correct in the 1990s when it was needed in terms of generation replacement in the Polish countryside, generational exchange. But today there's drama, there's no one to save the farm, and there's no desire, and thank God for selling it. So they need to be given an opportunity, as do entrepreneurs who can take pension benefits and carry on their business. A chance must be given to the insured in KRUS to carry out agricultural activities and to collect pensions. So we're deleting the premise of getting rid of the farm, stopping management, de facto in many cases formal, because this help at home is always traditionally provided. Ladies and gentlemen! I encourage a substantive discussion, with respect for 115 thousand. citizens who have been waiting for this project for 4 years. Thank you to all those who collected signatures who signed. We haven't forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, about you. We will pursue this subject, and through further parliamentary initiatives and, if necessary, we will soon repeat the citizens' initiative. This is, in our opinion, the strongest law, which has always been tabled in the High House, because it is not only confirmed by the work of many who collect signatures, confirmed by very strong social support, that is still well worked. Those proposals I was talking about, which are included in the new law, resulted from discussions during the collection of these signatures. This is a very efficient time used. We'll do it again. We are probably the only political environment with the possibility to file laws in parliamentary mode - also now, thanks to the Senate, we are proceeding on part of the bill, which as Senate resolutions are submitted to the High House, to the Sejm - which believes that our duty as a party of citizens is also to go to our fellow countrymen and collect signatures. That makes a lot of sense. Other environments do not report such projects, prefer to use the Members' path. We're different from them. I think it's worth noticing, too, because it has its translated into a real discussion on the project in this case of an internship pension. The change I'm presenting today on behalf of 115,000. Citizens, it is the answer to the expectations of hard-working people, it is the answer to citizens' freedom, it is the answer to the changes that are needed for pensioners, but also for the young generation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And Mr Janusz Śniadek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, print No 32. I'll admit that with quite mixed feelings today I'm taking the floor on this bill. I am very close to the idea of an internship criterion when I retire, as is solidarity for many years. In June 2016, when the term of office of the rule of law and justice began, there was a meeting of the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity in Radom with Jarosław Kaczyński, on which it was one of the topics very strongly raised, advocated. At that time Jarosław Kaczyński assured that this request would be taken into account, but because of the programme we had slightly different, more important priorities, above all the issue of reducing the retirement age. Let me remind you that this was the moment when this law entered the Sejm and the earlier legal status was still in force, we had a retirement age of 67 years. However, this declaration was such that sometimes, as other demands were implemented, the age reduction, 500+ we will return to this. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish made a mention here. In 2020 in January, at a meeting with President Duda, the national committee raised this demand very strongly, this thread. We'll see what happens. The project presented has very serious deficiencies, and has already been mentioned, and refers to the legal situation of 2016, i.e. the retirement age of 67 years. I will admit that one of the doubts raised in me concerns the fact that Minister Kosiniak-Kamish is the face of the previous law on this retirement age 67 years. I will admit that today, when I listen to these various pinches and constant remarks about the lack of social sensitivity of Law and Justice or the insufficient level of it, I think, Minister, that you have a relatively small title for it. I would like to say that I am happy to discover in you human qualities, and I regret that they appear so late, only when you are in opposition. I'll be right back. So, back to this case... You brought up a hundred and a dozen thousand people signed under this bill. With all due respect, you are right, and I will remind you that in the spring of 2012, nearly 2 million signatures of Poles were rejected by you, including the Civic Platform, when you requested a referendum on this matter. You lacked that respect for human signatures, for citizens' initiative. Anyway, I think it's an attempt to rebuild credibility. I don't know if it's a good one. To this bill already concretely. I don't have much time left. Perhaps, in these amendments, these amendments are amended, but the criterion of 40 years of internship only seems unconstitutional. I would point out that then they will not be covered by this law or will not be able to take advantage of this woman and not just women, those who had taken parental leave before 1999. It is also about those who, due to the training process, entered the social security system later, only after the end of school. So this is an element of elimination. The issue of financial impact estimates. The assumption that only one in four entitled, as is in this law, will benefit from this right, is completely unfounded. The experience of ZUS shows that generally more than 80% the entitled exercise this right when they acquire pension rights. Also, the question of not including cost estimates in this respect - you mentioned here the article. 1 points 6 and 7 - raising the pension up to the minimum pension from the State budget at a time when this is not due to the calculated pension amount is also a disability and certainly leads to underestimation of the costs of that law. Given that it is a citizens' project, regardless of all these deficiencies (the Bell), we are bringing it in to direct it to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u253	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! This civic project was launched in 2016 and it took 4 years to allow us to talk about it again. The project was intended to introduce the possibility of retirement for persons who had at least 40 years of the premium period. This project, because it was frozen for four years, has many obsolete elements. On the other hand, he shows the attitude of the ruling party towards its citizens: we cover our eyes, close our ears, and pretend that the voice of those over 100,000. There are no citizens. But he is. Please: with every new draft law, which, however, is quite random about the pension system, let's talk about the whole thing. Not just when it comes to election campaigns, whether it's Presidential or any other campaign, even from this speaker it's always repeated: there's a campaign, let's talk. Let us talk about the future, including my generation, which has very little prospects for retirement. Let's look at the whole thing: the pension system, the ageing society, the labour market, professional activity and occupational inactivity. How can people who have pension rights want to be active? How can you make pensions not so fast, but above all worthy and able to live? How can we make the future of pensioners in several decades and decades be really good and not just symbolic? They'll get too much money to die, and not enough to live. And that's the problem. How can people with experience but retirement age want to stay in the labour market? That is the question I ask you because experience shows that when we lower the retirement age or when it is possible to retire, people simply pass through. We are the fastest ageing society in Europe. Over the decade, the number of people aged 50+ has doubled. By 2035 we will be short 5 million employees. The hole in the pension system is huge, there is a lack of a system that would encourage professional activity and remain in the labour market. The most important question, however, is: How can we ensure that pensions are worthwhile? Retired people in Poland already have billions of zloty debts. The main reason? Medication, rehabilitation, private treatment. The number of new-system pension recipients has almost increased 11 times over the past years, from 2011 to 2019. At the end of December 2019 260 thousand. people took a new-system pension, which is lower than the lowest pension in Poland. Only about 56% now. people are professionally active. For women, this is slightly over 48%. The replacement rate is around 50% In the 20s, it's only going to be 30%. So there's a dramatic problem: what are the retirees going to live on? Over a period of several years, these low participation rates mean less money for the pension system, less money for the budget, more money spent from the social benefit system, in the long term the crisis of the pension and budgetary system. Official pension estimate in ZUS: now we get 53.8% the last salary, in 2045 it will be 32%, in 2060 - 24.9%. Research clearly shows that women in Poland want to work, but they are often inactive because they lack institutional childcare because it is not worth taking up work if it involves losing various benefits and benefits. Somewhere in the bush of the Sejm's work, the Women's Retirement Act of 1953 is stuck. These women take an average pension of 30% lower than the others. And instead of a real debate The state is proposing to us further random bill proposals, such as the bill on the payment of the pension called the thirteenth pension, which is only provided for this year, and it is from the social justice fund. In fact, I'll call it straight: it's stealing, stealing the money of Poles from pension insurance. Either they're transferred to the U.S.S. without inheritance, or 15%. You're taking on your current, budget expenses. That's how Poles can't be robbed. Therefore, Poles do not believe in the pension system in Poland and do not trust the state. You're not doing anything to fix this. I look forward to a real debate about the whole labour market system (the bell), the pension system, how we will live in a few decades. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u254	Thank you very much. Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present today the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the citizens' draft law introducing a criterion of 40 years of work enabling retirement without reaching the required age. The postulate for introducing both OPZZ and NSZZ.Solidarity into the Polish internship pension system is supported. In addition, the Confederation of Leviathan agrees that a debate on internship pensions is needed. However, it should be borne in mind that the main risk associated with the introduction of the current project is the reduction in pensions of retired persons on the basis of an internship criterion compared to their pensions if they were retired only after the retirement age was reached. This does not, of course, change the fact that internship pensions are needed and should be present as one of the possible options in the Polish pension system. This is an opportunity for those who entered the labour market relatively early, i.e. at the age of a dozen, after graduate school. This is largely the case for physical workers. Unlike people who have completed their studies and who are mentally employed, it is also a group, which is often well worked out and also a group, which according to statistics lives less. The option of an internship pension means that a person who, for example, She started working at the age of 16 and will be able to retire much earlier. This is unfortunately equivalent to the fact that these pensions will simply be very low. It seems that clarification and refinement in the debate on the pension system in Poland, which is very much needed, require a question about what would be included in the traineeship in the case of internship pensions. Whether we take into account only premium periods or non-contributory periods, because according to the proposed project today these are only premium periods. In addition, these contributions must be deducted from the lowest minimum remuneration. And I think it's worth mentioning here an example from Germany. Internship pensions were introduced there in 2012. This option shall be granted after 45 years of service and the relevant retirement age has been completed. But internships include both compulsory and voluntary insurance periods, high school or higher education periods and time, which is very important, child care. The right to an internship pension is widely used by insured persons in Germany and the application for an internship pension is not exceptional but universal. For example, in 2018, the number of newly granted old-age pensions was 340 000, while early internships were awarded up to 240 000. Perhaps some of these solutions should be considered in the Polish system, especially the inclusion in the traineeship of childcare, which will allow us to improve the situation of women. We have a civic project ahead of us. In the queue for proceding there is a parliamentary project of PSL. We are also waiting for President Duda's proposal, which we do not yet know yet, but it can certainly be said that the solutions proposed in it will be similar. The Left will also present its internship pension scheme, except that the Left will not charm reality by pretending that solutions in such a form are sufficient. Internship pensions without a guaranteed minimum pension of at least PLN 1600 net is actually a guarantee of starvation pensions, especially for women. The situation of Polish pensioners is bad, the situation of women in retirement is often dramatic. Many Polish pensioners cannot afford to buy full-value food, pay electricity bills, buy drugs or postpone a private visit to a doctor, because the term proposed by public health care in the current form is so far away that they often fear that they will simply not live. You can no longer patch the Polish pension system, which is holes like a sieve, with some ad hoc solutions. We need a debate and comprehensive solutions that will ensure a decent life for pensioners living in Poland and make it easier for them to function daily without worrying about which proverbial poop to reschedule or simply take away. In Poland at the moment we have a difference in earnings between men and women within 20%. Let us remember that contributions are paid from salary collections, so the 20% difference in wages is the 20% difference in premiums. Women take maternity, parental and parental leave. Of course, for several years they have been paid leave and the State pays for the women's contributions during the holiday. However, remember that when a man earns a normal salary at the same time and pays contributions, women's contributions paid on maternity benefits are not a 100% salary. In Poland, women tend to children, seniors, people with disabilities during illness, but not only. These periods are often non-contributory periods. I will remind you that in 2019 more than 250 thousand. persons received a benefit of less than PLN 1100 gross, i.e. approx. 800 PLN per hand. Imagine how you're gonna live for that. The poverty of Polish pensioners is growing, not decreasing. 85% The poorest pensioners are women. We cannot offer solutions that will only deepen these differences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to look for solutions that will not only bury these ditches of inequality, but above all will not drive Polish seniors and Polish seniors into even greater poverty and even lower pensions, especially when it comes to women. We, as the Left, are looking for solutions that will enable us to... Finish it, Member. ...comprehensive care for the well-being of pensioners in Poland. Therefore, as a club, we will also propose an internship pension project, but it will also include the mandatory introduction of a guaranteed minimum pension of PLN 1600. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u257	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the applicants, especially the applicant's representative, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, who spoke on their behalf. The project was four years old. It's a pity he's been around for four years because we could've had this serious discussion we're having in the O.R. today to start early. I remember when PiS, starting the elections and then taking power, talking about the civil package - we will lean on every project, especially on the civil project. Everyone would want it to be that way. That's what you're doing. It's just that leaning down is that you're leaning down and then you're in that slope for four years. I hope this time there won't be a situation like this. You're in favour of the previous project. We choose... Mr President, you support him, you say that the PS supports him, the AWS supports him. You've leaned down, and that's what you've been doing for four years. [[Applause]] Afraid to do something good? It's a long way from retirement. You said yourself you supported him. The order of snowmaking is our decision. Snowflake sequence. There was no snow this year, so you can use that money for retirement. There was nothing to snow off. [[Applause]] It's a solution that doesn't storm the system. This is not a system solution. This is one of the elements that needs to be introduced. This issue is raised by people who have already done their jobs in their lives, people who have worked hard. You yourself have also admitted, Mr President, that people work hard under very difficult conditions, both men and women, e.g. women after high school working in a hospital, especially if they work in a department where work is actually very hard. If someone talks to the nurses, they know how exhausted they are. They'd like to retire. It's not a duty. This is giving the opportunity to someone who has come to the conclusion that it is worth retiring even if this benefit is lower. This will be a lower benefit, so it will be a lower burden for the social security system. We need to be aware of that. It'll be solved. That's the right thing to do. I'm glad you can confirm that. Such solutions should be sought. We offered to retire without tax. That's a very good solution too. It's coming out tonight... You supported it, too. You said it was the right thing to do. But to support and put aside for four years - let's not make such raccoons here in the next term of office. Those who will - probably some will not... Will we continue to make decisions about this project? That's a smart way. The term of office, the same project... We will not repeat the same because even some Members have already come to the conclusion that certain elements have become obsolete. Life's moving on. Retirement's getting lower. We are proposing a number of other solutions to avoid the drama that is today and threatens us with pensions. The head of the ZUS not so long ago said that we are all facing an extension of the retirement age in Poland. You're bragging that you've lowered him, and the head of the ZUS gets up and says you're gonna have to raise him up. It's about later retirement. Few of this, today a member of the Supervisory Board of the ZUS, which is closest to the nucleus, says explicitly that we need to think about reducing pension benefits. So this is the drama we're talking about. There are also a number of other solutions that we are already proposing and will be proposed in the future. It's about women who raised four children and worked. They are being wronged because women who haven't worked may not have worked a day, and they also get benefits. Glory for that, you've brought this very good solution. But what about the woman who was driving somewhere in a wheelchair, wandering around the city, coming home late in the evening, driving from one side of the city to the other side of the city, using only her parental leave, working for dozens of years, and having the lowest benefit because she worked in difficult conditions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll have to think about it, too. We'll make a proposal. That's why I suggest you get out of this bow and lean on the right solutions, because it's the citizens who report them. This is not my idea, nor the president of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, but this is what people report. And that's a good solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary task of the pension system in Poland is to provide citizens with insurance benefits on the basis of working years authorised by law, as well as insurance benefits for people who cannot provide work due to their health. The present law does not meet, ladies and gentlemen, social expectations, hence the citizens' project, under which more than 100,000 signed. persons. Citizens want them to be able to decide whether they want to stay in the labour market after 40 years of work or if they want to retire. Citizens want to decide how much contributions they pay, how much initial capital they have raised and how valuable it is. However, the question must be asked, ladies and gentlemen, what is this pension going to be, because if it is going to be a low, starving pension, there is no agreement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, that's what's missing from this project. After 40 years of work, every citizen should have a decent pension because he deserved it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a citizens' bill amending the Pension Act with the Social Insurance Fund. This civic project, as has already been mentioned here, entered the High House in 2016. Indeed, it is worth considering why it is only now that we are doing these remanants that we return to this. But better later than never. Since the beginning of the 8th term of office of the Polish Parliament there have been 20 legal acts amending this law on pensions and pensions. The biggest changes were the reduction in the retirement age, the 13th pension or the planned transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. Perhaps it would now be worth considering actually giving up the taxation of pensions. After all, these measures were already subject to income tax. Don't you think (the bell), Minister, that such a change would implement the principle of social justice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u262	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You don't have an MP? Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Internship pensions? Yeah, that's a good solution. But internship pensions without a minimum pension? Not so good anymore. This may result in lower pensions. First of all, this concerns women. We don't want starvation pensions, we don't want dramatic stories about older people having to choose between drugs and heating or buying food. In the case of this discussion, the discussion about pensions, the discussion about internship pensions, we also need to start talking about one aspect: women's work, caring for children, of course, but also care for the elderly, dependents, parents, grandparents. It is very often that women have to quit their job because the care system for the elderly is inefficient. That's when women take on this burden. These years of very hard work are non-contributory years, so I strongly encourage us to take this aspect into account in the coming months, thinking about pensions, thinking about what will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The subject of pensions is quite extensive. I've run out of time before, so I have a question for the Minister because this is where the drama is going. In a dozen years, in 25 years, it's going to be 20%. the last salary. Today, everyone, if he can count and imagine if he can survive for it, will come to the conclusion that he cannot survive, all the more so because this is already confirmed by official, governmental factors. The pension system, the social security system is not a matter of one party or one term or two. There must be a common idea of how to solve these problems. But you're in charge. Are you working on some kind of system? Do you have any idea how to avoid this drama, which will affect Polish seniors in several decades? This is already seen on the day (the bell) today - the decreasing purchasing power of these benefits, etc. Is there an idea in this regard? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a pity for those four years, which this civic project has been living through, because during these four years we have been able to significantly improve the existence of Polish pensioners, to build a rational system, and so the time has passed, Minister. At that time, you served various ideas, and aside from such an ad hoc solution as the 13th pension, there was little of it. As areas of poverty are growing today, especially as regards pensioners, I would like to ask what the government is planning to do, how to solve these problems in a systemic way, because we do not see any ideas on a closer or further horizon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The poverty of pensioners is a disgrace to the Polish state. The citizens' bill amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws brings solutions without determining the age required. That's why I have questions to discuss. Have studies been carried out on what professional groups will be covered by the project? Do you have any idea how many people are entering the labour market at the age of a dozen, e.g. 16, 17, 18 years old? I ask this out of concern that others do not fall into poverty in the fall of life. I therefore encourage you to discuss this project, also in the context of the questions I have asked. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u270	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u271	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for mentioning the sleep. Jan Guz, CEO, head of the OPZZ. Anyway, as I recall, he, OPZZ, took over the project or pilot project on the inheritance of pensions. Well, you'd still like that, Minister... I'm addressing Minister Swede. Are you possibly considering an idea like inheriting pensions by your spouses? Besides, it's an old case. We put this together in our previous term of office. It didn't work out somehow, but what some people think would be worth going back to, because the tragedy of pensioners starts when one of the pensioners - or the pensioners - leaves, leaving another person with big spending issues, and after all expenses, e.g. for the maintenance (the bell) of the apartment, two or three apartments, are the same. It would be worth remembering and it would be worthwhile to address these issues. Minister! Are you considering this issue? I'm sure it'll be another citizens' initiative if you don't. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u273	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed citizens' bill proposes the necessary solution, but bears the risk of reducing pension benefits and increasing inequalities in benefits for men and women. This shows once again how much it is necessary to introduce a minimum pension equal to that of men and women. I'm asking questions. Is it known whether it has been examined how much pension benefits paid for internship are going to be reduced compared to previous ones? How much will the inequality between benefits for men and women deepen? Finally: Is it known whether it has been examined how large the number of people will cover this pension and, consequently, how many people will leave the labour market? How many of these people are women? How will this affect the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u274	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This is an important citizens' project that has raised the issue that we have been discussing in this House for many years. I would like to remind you that in 2012 a citizens' project was considered in this House: 35 years, 40 years old, internship pensions, introduced by OPZZ, by Jan Guz. In this House, there was also a request from the Democratic Alliance to hold a referendum of 250,000. signatures, whether to extend retirement age, or to introduce the possibility of retirement after 40 years in the case of men and 35 years in the case of women. All these projects were then rejected. I hope that now, together, I look at this hall, not to mention who, on whose side we have been, will work, looking for this solution, especially that which today is unfair, partial pension (the bell) collected by farmers due to the failure to provide the farm. This should be dealt with as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u276	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I could say, by the way, that this project doesn't really concern me, because I've long since lost hope that any zloty will affect my account when I reach retirement age. The problem is, we're still pretending that the ZUS is powerful, that it's still going to work. Let's have a responsibility, let's have the courage to say in this room that the ZUS is dead. We can pump blood into it, we can pump oxygen into it, we can pray for it, but he won't get up. We just need to reform the pension system. As I said, me and my colleagues with PESEL are more like my pension from the ZUS, we're not getting it. So, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling party, take responsibility. You have received a huge mandate of trust from Poles - you have an independent majority, you have 4 years to reform the pension system. Why don't we start with this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Once, I remember, there was a pension system that could otherwise be worked: 65 years old - male, 60 years old - female, or 40 years in employment or 35 years in employment. At that time, it was known that when you work systematically for 40 years, it is still a contribution to the system. And today we have a situation where young people don't pay to work, they work in their 30s. They're working 30 years, 20 pairs, and they're waiting for retirement age. I'll ask what's better. Are these 40 years of work and contributions, or are you reluctant to work and then 20 years? Finally, I wanted to ask: What is the average work experience when it comes to achieving a pension in Poland? 25 years, 30 years or 40 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There isn't. There's no envoy. Then I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is civic and therefore I really have full respect for the citizens who signed up for this project. He is indeed from his previous term of office, but the problem is well known to us, because we have been talking about these pensions for years. Here he asked why we have not done anything in four years. I would say, Mr President, that the loss of those eight years in the coalition with the Civic Platform, where the only solution you have proposed, was to raise the retirement age. And that was a pity we're still dealing with today. The second point, Mr President, is that you will have a problem with establishing a uniform position in the club PSL-Kukiz, because if your colleague says that the ZUS is dead and not suitable for anything, then it is absolutely impossible to agree with this thesis, because the ZUS is today the only possible, so to speak, the centre where pensions are paid, and it is well. And there's no danger here today about retirement payments. Let me remind you that this year the FUS - Social Insurance Fund, from which pensions are paid, is PLN 262 billion. In recent years, over PLN 60 billion have arrived in the Social Insurance Fund due to good economic situation, low unemployment and wage increases. And here the ZUS is the guarantee of pension, pension payments. Such statements only harm this debate, because they cause someone who listens to our debate to think that there is a threat. There's no danger. The Social Insurance Institution is well and the guarantor, as in other countries, is the state budget, the Social Insurance Fund. There's no other option here. But, in principle, we are here, of course, open to discussion, to debate, because I think so, and Mr President also said that the project itself in this form is unacceptable for a simple reason - it was created in a completely different situation. After raising your retirement age, you tried to find some solution to the introduction of internship pensions. Today, this project eliminates all women from this solution, because if there are only premium periods in this project, no woman today after the restoration of the retirement age that we introduced when we came to governments in 2015 and restored the retirement age of 60 years would not benefit from this solution. So that this version of the project is no longer acceptable today due to the passage of time and changes that we have introduced, i.e. the restoration of the retirement age for women - 60 years old and men - 65 years old. This is small in men, because, of course, there is a problem, if you make suggestions that these are only premium periods, it matters completely differently. Now it's a project issue, because there's been a lot of threads here. We have introduced a project that is well-accepted - "Mama 4+" - that is, for all those mothers who do not have a pension, we give it the lowest pension, in the amount which is now going to be PLN 1200. Over 50,000. people took advantage of it. There is a little less than half of those who did not have an internship at all, and in the case of the rest there is a contribution to the minimum benefit. This is because someone was short of retirement for a couple or several years. So that's a good solution. We didn't take anything from anyone, we just created a new program that works. If this is about an internship, we've been calling it sleep. Jana Guz. Mr Janusz Śniadek also perfectly remembers the decisions of the national committee on internship. This topic is, he was also brought in by the trade union.Solidarity. Today, in the debate, I would say that the presidential candidates are present too, but we need a comprehensive debate on the insurance system, which also includes the issue of the internship element and we are open to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u282	Thank you very much. Please, the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a civil project. I will also take this opportunity to talk about another civic action, because the heroes of this action are at the gallery in the Sejm today. A few weeks ago CSR in Poręba Spytkowska - this is a town in the municipality of Brzesko, in Małopolska - voluntary fire department proposed a collection for burning Australia, the dramas that are happening there, the harm that unfortunately caused by nature for many, many years will remain. And young people with CSR together with President Krzysztof Rachwał, with chief and president, with Adrian Zalesny, with Monika Adamczyk, who are in the room, are young people with CSR... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...today, together with Wojciech Podlesie, the Colonel of the State Fire Service, and the Mayor of the City and the municipality of Brzesko Tomasz Summer handed over 422 thousand. for the conservation of nature in Australia, the National Park of Australia. Knuckles. So for us this is really very symbolic - for the foundation of national parks and wildlife. Thank you, 11,000. donors who volunteered for this. This is an example of civic efficiency. [[Applause]] We welcome you all very warmly. Thank you for what you're doing. This is an example of a beautiful civic action. Now, let's get back to the subject we talked about. Thank you all for the vote. I thought we could avoid these historical pinches, but since we haven't avoided... You should have set an example. And this is now, Mr Sniadek, with great respect and sympathy for you, I will tell you frankly, Mr Sniadek, for his story, for your story. Who created the AWS government? Who was in the AWS government and who's the heir to AWS? Did the Solidarity Election Action have anything to do with the trade union? Probably Prime Minister Morawiecki. Were the politicians of the Centre Agreement, or were the politicians who formed the United Right Camp today part of the AWS? They were her messengers, they were voivods, they were ministers? Yeah, they were. PiS is the heir to AWS. PiS is the heir to AWS and you were in charge. Who privatized the sugar factories then? Who led to the privatisation of banks and PZU? Who introduced a pathological OFE system that ate 10% commission at the start. If someone paid 100 zlotys to OFE, 10 would go straight to the international corporation. You have built giants of international financers, but not a Polish pensioner. It was under your rule. You want a debate like this? There you go, every decision of the AWS government, every decision of the government... I don't know if you're proud of them because it was the rule with Roman Giertych and Self-Defense. Remember you and Roman Giertych were in the coalition? I don't think you like him very much today. It's on the other side. You don't like him. And you know, I like everyone because the Member says I don't like someone. I like people. Maybe that's what we're different about. I like you, too. [[Applause]] There isn't really... And that's the difference that's probably between us. You want this kind of debate? You want to talk about how much money was transferred from OFE to international corporations? Who put it in there? Who introduced chaos in health care? Who privatized mining? Really, drama in Silesia. Structural unemployment. Why did so many people travel abroad in 2004 after entering the European Union? Because the AWS government was the giant structural unemployment you caused. And you are heirs. I've come to my past... This is the example of the lack of appeals he is calling for. No, this is an example that you, Mr President, have caused. You also wanted to have this debate on the historical side. I can go in because I don't hide my actions. Not everything worked out. I can say a little underdog. But a lot worked out, because for example. After your governments, how much was maternity leave? 18 weeks. And after our 52. And that's what's left of it, and you kept it. And cool. Let's move on, because this bill is forward, not about historical politics. She's about the future, about what's ahead of us. Thanks for that... You all backed up, okay? You have to work on this project together with the others who are. Let's put them together - and that's a request. It's for you. And to the Minister, to influence it. Let's combine all these projects - this internship of 35,40, which we have now put together as a parliamentary project, which is companyd together with OPZZ, the agricultural pension project and probably the President's project - and let's set up one subcommittee. Let's work on these projects. There were a lot of questions about how this would affect your pension. It is precisely the contribution, commitment to internship, payment of contributions that is today's commitment and has the greatest impact on the value of the future pension. Minimum pension is today in Poland. Because there were also questions about us introducing minimum pensions. There is a minimum pension and she is equal for men and women, she is not dependent on gender in any way. About mothers 4+ - we supported this project because he was needed. That's right, very good. But he has also brought about an injustice. She's something to think about. What do mothers report at meetings? A mother comes and says, "I've had five children and I've gone to work. I worked for 25 years and paid my contributions. And today I have the same pension as my mother, who also gave birth - we are very grateful to her for it and she needs this pension - but it should be differentiated. Maybe we should think - just to respect and reward this professional activity. When someone was working, retirement shouldn't be equal, it should be higher. It's a good thing there's an insurance for 4+ mothers, for those who didn't work, who didn't earn a pension because they couldn't because they couldn't reconcile their working life with their family life. So all this is to be done, only we need good will and a serious debate about the future. We won't have a problem agreeing on a position. I think it's worth taking care of your environment. The great enthusiast of raising the retirement age was - probably still - Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. You also have differences in this matter in the United Right. Worry about each other, we'll worry about each other. We're gonna be okay, and I'm sure you guys are gonna try. There's a lot to be done about that. Thanks for not applying for rejection at first reading. But if this project is four more years old and will be read again in the next Seym, then in eight years this project will not be updated. A lot of people are just waiting for these internship pensions. Let's do one joint subcommittee. Let's work not on the bill within one day, but within two or three weeks - seriously, properly - within two or three months and adopt it. That's what I'm bringing in on behalf of 115 grand. citizens, because today I am acting primarily as a representative of the citizens' initiative, undertaken to introduce internship pensions, an initiative which has been waiting for 4 years to be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u284	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in print No. 32 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on conditions of employment in health care (print No 35). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Tomasz Dybek to present the justification for the bill. If you're ready, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2017, we collected a quarter of a million signatures under the citizens' bill on employment conditions in health care. We sat at one table: doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, diaphragm, electroradiologists, psychologists. We're on the same page. The most important thing after all these years is that we all came to a common consensus at one table. The first reading took place on 19 July 2017. But of course, the government side said: What do you want, when we already have our bill? We have a law that was written and converted in 36 hours, 7, 8 June 2017. On 19 July 2017, I announced a hunger protest on behalf of residents and the Medical Profession Agreement. It's done. It became a fact. They starved people, 5, 10, 20 days in the name of the rules, in the name of the rules, so that one of the rulers would listen to ordinary citizens. It ended when it ended. The minister has been changed. On 8 January 2018, Professor Łukasz Szumowski became Minister. During the hunger protest, we collected 150,000. signatures under the next civic project on the increase in health care expenditure. The day after the procession, i.e. after the first reading in the Sejm, the Minister signed an agreement with the Residents' Agreement on the increase of expenditure, so very quickly it was covered by what was done by the citizens, i.e. that we collected 150,000. subsequent signatures within 2 weeks. In 2018, the famous government law came into force for the first time, a historic moment. Wherever you put it in your search engine, you'll see how the current government boasted that he did something for the medics. There's a bill, except this bill really makes this poverty and this division in health care, that's all. There are imaginary indicators, there is an average of up to PLN 3900 gross. The indicator was adopted e.g. for the Master of Physiotherapy of 0.77, which gives us the amount of PLN 2847. 2847 zł was reduced by the difference between 2847 zł and the minimum wage, i.e. 500.700 zł, and of which 20% It was so-called. raise. It wasn't a raise, it was a typical regulation that increased poverty. We showed it, collected a quarter of a million signatures, this sovereign who is voting for you as well. Later we had a protest of physiotherapists, a manifestation in September in Warsaw, a manifestation of diagnostics under the Ministry of Health. In 2019 Minister Szumowski once again met with us, with the Medical Profession Agreement, with representatives of the so-called professions. omitted. You know, nurses have their own legal regulations, doctors have their own legal regulations, but, as you may well know, everyone has used state health services, in medical facilities not only is there a doctor and a nurse, there is a physio therapist, the second profession - 65 thousand. persons are entitled to pursue the profession of physiotherapist - diagnosis. Without proper diagnostics, what are you gonna do? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Even an outstanding professor of medicine, even an outstanding doctor, if he doesn't have a good diagnosis, it's not gonna work. Minister 21 January 2019: I will do something for these professions omitted. As usual, it ends with a promise. - The funds will be transferred in March at the amount of PLN 680 million and will get this competition omitted. I'm telling you, it can't be marked, but it'll be for you. Of course, every citizen will listen because the minister comes and says it. You just have to ask yourself: How long can you listen to fairy tales? March's over. They didn't get any raises. In May, the environment didn't last. We organized a May without physiotherapists. People are overtired, people work two or three jobs to function normally. I don't know if you're aware - I hope you have - that today a physio therapist after a five-year master's degree, a diagnosis, a psychologist have a hunger salary. This is 2300 zł, 2400 zł, 2500 zł gross. They work two or three jobs to function normally. They're leaving at an hour. 6:00 a.m., they're back at 6:00 p.m. 21. And I have to tell you, the funniest part of all of this is that there are about 20,000 in the NFZ system. physiotherapists, of which 70% These are women at the age of 35.40. That's what it looks like today. Let's move on. The absence of physiotherapists, of course, in 5, 10, 20, 30 hospitals. What the ministry says: No, nothing happened, one lacks physiotherapists. And people are sent back with a receipt, they don't have access to physiotherapists, they don't have access to diagnostics. We have a hunger protest on the 20th. Of course, the ministry is coming to starve very quickly, you can't starve: but, you know, we will, there's a bill, it's going to be proceded, stop, let's sit down to talk. What do we do? Let's sit down and talk. That's 680 million, but the minister says, "You know what I'm gonna say? In July there will be 4 billion. There is a good economic situation in Poland, honey, raspberry. In colloquial terms, you'll get better money. In 2019 the amount is thawed and really the transmission of information from the Ministry or from the ruling party is shocking to the ordinary citizen because they say that 4200 PLN that the base amount has been increased. The base amount of PLN 4200 was increased from PLN 3900, but PLN 3900 or PLN 4200 need to be able to count even more. That's not the amount the physiotherapist makes, that's not the amount the diagnostics make. I have prepared: 3900 PLN for physiotherapy master's degree, for diagnostics master's degree, for psychologists, for speech therapist: 3900 PLN times 0.73 gives the amount of 2847 PLN. 2847 PLN minus the minimum salary that was in 2019 gives us 597 PLN. Of 597 zł 20% this is 119 PLN gross, I emphasize, gross. That's how he got this beautiful, wonderful raise. You have increased the amount to PLN 4200. The final difference: here is PLN 163 and here is PLN 119. That's a forty pair of gross gold. Forty gross zlotys, ladies and gentlemen, you know, just count, that's twenty net zlotys. The question arises as to why these people are being educated in Poland. To get them to go to the West? So they can work at discount? Today, there are 3500 PLN in the disclaimer, 4,000 000 PLN gross. That's the brutal truth. What's the effect of a medic's work? It's a profession of public trust, and a medic who saves lives works 12 and 14 hours. Work 14 hours a day. What mistakes do you make after that? Who knows... But it was a propaganda of success: yes, we increased the base amount to PLN 4200. What do they even want? Are they still protesting? This is the propaganda of success. The next meeting with the Minister, 4 billion PLN was handed over for the first time, a historic moment. A quarter of PLN 4 billion were financed by medical institutions. There are talks conducted under the umbrella of the National Health Fund in voivodships with people, with unionists. We're talking about physiotherapists, diagnostics, psychologists, electroradiologists. Did the institution transfer the money to the professional group? Ladies and gentlemen, I've spent two months driving in private and listening to this. I wouldn't want to quote because it's not right to quote directors in a room like this who make 15 and 20 grand. PLN per month. There comes a director who gets $3900,000, and he doesn't want to give 100, $200, $300 gross raise to an educated man. This person supervised 2200 PLN, 2300 PLN, 2400 PLN gross. That's what they make. And this director says, no, I don't have money, there's no regulation, what the minister said, it's not quite true, we have hospital debt, we have debt... Why? Once you're in this state service, you'll be treated by that person. Some have actually managed to get the amount, but I will give an example of the Upper Silesian Rehabilitation Center. There are 130 physiotherapists there. And thank you for coming in again with the physiotherapists from Repty and more. Do you know how much a physiotherapist made there on average in 2019 after his master's degree? I'm not talking about completed courses anymore. By completing studies in physiotherapy, as physiotherapeutic as well as in diagnostics, we need to be educated. The law of 2017 orders, forces on physiotherapists, diagnostics of learning at courses. The courses are very expensive today. In the Republic, the average physiotherapist's salary is PLN 2,400 gross. There were increases in the amount of PLN 500. Today a physio therapist in Reptach earns after a Master's degree 2900 PLN or 2800 PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of an amount of 3,000. zł, on the ship counting, this is 2100 PLN per hand. Can you live for $2,000? Evil? They have to. I will no longer show some of the Members who are directors in the institutions, as they speak to us, because it is not worthy of man. It is not worthy of man, as they speak to men, with their subordinates. Ladies and gentlemen! We've collected a quarter of a million signatures. I wouldn't want to toss the cards because it's not elegant, but it's done. We hear: you have gathered, and what rights you have, no, we have a super-rule, whatever you want. As long as there's no pressure on the ministry, nothing will change. As long as it doesn't run out... Doesn't the principal give raises or doesn't the minister give raises? Both. If the Minister wanted to, he'd make a general one. If you'd like, the minister's on the table. What's on the table? He's got a citizen's project on the table, a citizen's project. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please don't measure the others with your measure. I understand. All you have to do is start proceding it. There can be no disproportion, ma'am. If the Master of Physiotherapy earns 2300 PLN gross or 2400 PLN, or e.g. The nurse has 4,000. Or 5,000. It's a visible division. They're working on the same patient. It can't be like this. You're splitting up. You can't share. We showed - for the first time - that we can sit at the table and talk. We did something together, all we have to do is respect the other person. You can talk. Ladies and gentlemen! It's very simple. In 2019 there were meetings with the Minister every month - every month meetings with the Minister - which brought nothing. Several people received a raise of PLN 300, PLN 400. There are no system solutions, there is increased poverty. This is a very difficult situation. The Minister uses certain tricks in conversations. It's best to invite a lot of people, let everyone say something. He talks nicely, but when he comes to the specifics, a representative of the Ministry leaves, he leaves the Deputy Minister who says yes. This has been the case lately, probably in January: we will process, increase indicators, as indicators increase, you will earn better. What's the point of increasing the indicators? You have a bill. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is not a film, this is the brutal reality in which Poles, Poles and Poles live today, who finish their studies and are doomed to destruction. Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2017 was the year in which the most frequently searched word in the search engine was the word: resident. From this speaker you can say straight away: everything indicates that 2020 will be the year for physiotherapists, for diagnostics. Don't forget about us, and we'll give you some kind of... By not scaring anyone, as I say, on July 19, 2019 there was a hunger protest, it will now be about physiotherapists loudly, because it is still impossible to live like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u286	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject of the citizens' draft law on employment conditions in health care, print No 35, is to determine how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal products, taking into account the type of work carried out and the qualifications required for its performance and the method of granting remuneration. It should already be noted at the outset that the title of the draft law does not reflect its actual scope, erroneously suggesting that the law regulates employment conditions in health care, while it introduces provisions establishing the lowest basic remuneration for persons employed in medicinal products. Constitutional doubts are raised by the definition of the scope of the subject matter and the law in question. The introduction of the lowest basic salary higher than the general minimum wage for a group of persons separated only because of the place of employment seems unjustified and may be considered contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It should be borne in mind that in accordance with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is all equal to the law and everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 January 2005, the signature of Act K 31/03 - the differentiation of the situation of similar entities is acceptable if three requirements are respected: firstly, the criteria of differentiation introduced by the legislator must be reasonable and must be linked to the purpose and content of the provisions in which the standard is contained, secondly, the importance of the interest to which the differentiation of similar entities is intended must remain in an appropriate proportion to the importance of the interests which will be affected by the different treatment of similar entities, and thirdly, the differentiation of similar entities must be based in the values, rules or constitutional standards. In our view, these requirements will not be met if people employed in medicinal products are distinguished from those employed in other entities. The nature of the work of persons who do not provide health services and are employed in medicinal entities only in the context of their handling, e.g. administrative staff or economic workers do not differ in any way from the nature of the work of persons performing similar functions in other entities. Unfortunately, they appear in the project - I will not point them out here, but unfortunately there are quite a few - legislative errors. I am no longer talking about the fact that the project has not been updated, although it has not been implemented, and there are also outdated deadlines. It should be noted that the project regulates similar issues as the Act of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities, which entered into force on 16 August 2017, and has already been amended twice in the context of the implementation of the postulates reported by the professional association representing health professionals. The information we have shows that the Minister of Health has a permanent dialogue with representatives of the medical professions in regulating salaries both in the form of bilateral talks and in the framework of a trilateral dialogue involving representative trade union centres and employers' organisations. The main form of discussion on labour issues is conversations involving the Tripartite Group's Tripartite Health Department. Protection of health and bodies of the Social Dialogue Council. One of the results of the talks undertaken in 2018 was the amendment of the Act of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities, which increased the base amount from PLN 3900 to PLN 4200. This has accelerated the rate of increases for the least-earned health care professionals. Discussions on this subject and the search for opportunities (the Bell) for further changes in the rules governing health pay will continue in a spirit of joint development of viable solutions. Although the Act contains a lot of controversy, as a club of law and justice, we propose that it go to further work in the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u288	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the citizens' draft employment conditions law in health care, print No 35. Ladies and gentlemen, 250,000. signatures under this project. That indicates that the case is very serious. We hear from the mouths of the rulers that talks are in progress. Ladies and gentlemen, these talks have been going on for five years, and people have starving salaries, as a medical representative said. We keep hearing that we're talking to nurses separately, separately with residents, separately with other groups. It doesn't lead to anything. On the other hand, in a very logical way this project shows us how to set salaries in the medical sector. The fatal reform of hospitals and hospital networks - which led to the fact that the real costs of medical procedures are not really covered, only the salaries are flat-rate - has caused the easiest element on which the director can save money to be paid by employees. Hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, are in a tragic situation. 14.5 billion is hospital debt, 2.5 billion is today a debt due for this year. So what do the directors take away from? They're taking employees out of their wages because there's no permanent pay rule. And this law offers us a minimum amount of remuneration and very logical conversions, i.e. this minimum amount of remuneration will be converted according to education, with the place of employment of all employees in the health care department, starting with technical staff, by analysts, physiotherapists, and ending with doctors. And doctors, depending on what kind of internship they have, how specialized they are. This is a bill that will finally make the minister not one decision to settle the conflicts, today he promised residents, tomorrow the nurses, the day after tomorrow to someone else. Therefore, as the Civic Coalition Club, we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u291	This bill, the citizens' bill, is a cry of despair. A great cry of despair for the staff of medical agents who have been and are treated as stepmothers by the government. Requirements are rising, wages are illusory. That's a quarter of a million employees' signatures. I'm just going to mention, because that's what we have in the bill, but so that we're all aware that health care is not a doctor, it's not a doctor and a nurse or even a physiotherapist, that modern medicine is a comprehensive interaction of representatives of many, many medical professions, who are also supported by the technical service included in the bill. These are doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, physiotherapists, staff of medical diagnostic laboratories, pharmacists, paramedics, medical technicians, electroradiologists, psychologists, nutritionists, speech counselors. This order isn't mine, it's just that it's in the bill so that I don't want to differentiate completely. The government in its previous term of office, as well as in this one, was confined to the policy of putting out fires, because these fires started to explode. We all remember: these are nurses, and these are physiotherapists, and these are medical paramedics. And then, once there was a particular tension among some part of the medical staff, then the government was patching up, curing with a fatal method. So they were proposed and they were adopted various laws, sometimes regulations, in a very dishonest way, because nurses started to make a little more money. They started making more money, because the government - I'm talking about the previous parliament - adopted such acts on remuneration, without giving medical institutions money for it. So deep underfunded hospitals, clinics - basically every facility, every healthcare provider funded by the health fund - became more and more suffocated. That's why it's debt. This is one of the main reasons for debt. The 14 billion, which, I think, the government doesn't care at all. This debt will increase. The government ignored health care, ignored workers. Employees have heard that the economy is booming, we have a rain of money, everything is going in the right direction, but somehow not in health care. I'm just so informative. Yes, the laws were adopted, they were amended. The base amount of June 2017 was 3200. In July it was PLN 4200, PLN 3900.4200, i.e. increased. But it's just a base amount. Then there are multipliers, this is an investigation procedure for assumed salaries, proposed in laws, which increases this by 20%, not less than 20% per year. But the nurse currently earns PLN 3066 - gross of course. At the end of the next year it is expected to earn as much as PLN 3345. Medical paramedic, too. The employee of the basic activity - also has an important role - is currently earning PLN 2436, which is below the minimum wage in the economy. That's real. And doctors - we care so much about doctors - are currently earning 100 zlotys above the minimum wage, and soon they will earn as much as 200 zlotys above. How do we stop doctors? How do we encourage them? Recently, Minister Szumowski spoke at one of his meetings - and rightly so - that the reception of health care would be much better if doctors were smiling and nurses were satisfied. But how can they be satisfied? Minister Szumowski says that some doctors earn more than 20,000. zł and more. Yes, but this applies to a narrow group of those over 40 who are specialized and tyrannical - New Year's Eve. They take a lot of shifts, because even if they don't want to take them, they're emotional blackmail situations, because a colleague, chief, director, asks: Take at least three shifts, otherwise I'm going to have to close the ward. That's real. Finish your work, sir. I appeal to the government, I appeal to the Prime Minister to really take care of health care because he is going in a terrible way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft law on employment conditions in health care. The health department needs our help. Help, which will be characterized by cross-party agreement: from the right to the left of the Polish political scene. The health issues of Poles and Poles should be an absolute priority for us, because human life has no price and cannot be put above any other thing - material or intangible. It is a pity that in Poland we talk so little about the needs of health professionals. It is a pity that we are so late in discussing the necessary citizens' project, which was submitted in May 2017. He aims primarily to improve the situation in the Polish health service, the service, which requires funding, investment, higher salaries for her employees, new equipment for the treatment and diagnosis of diseases. However, it is good that this topic has been raised at all, because it is up to us that the direction in which we will develop our health protection will depend. As a club, we consider the civic project necessary and proper. The Act sets out how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals who are employed in medicinal entities, taking into account the type of work they perform, the qualifications required in their performance and the method of awarding remuneration in a manner that we consider worthy. We respect the profession we're doing. Thanks to this bill, we have a chance to stop the ongoing emigration of health workers in search of better working conditions. Minimum wage increases, but with it inflation is also increasing at an alarming rate. In a moment, it may turn out that the proposals for the lowest increases presented by the Minister of Health do not agree to the current reality and are no reasonable solution. The salaries in the Polish health service should be high, because Poles and Poles deserve good medical care, they deserve that people who take care of them do not have to worry about whether they are enough from the first to the first. The sense of stability and security related to better pay will translate into a better standard of work, which is exactly what we should strive for. We can only achieve this through a cross-party agreement. Today, this is exactly what Poland expects of us. The applicant said that all health professionals sat down to talk and agreed. This should be the starting point, so that it is not really that everyone will fight for their own, and the minister will, by putting out a fire, give these increases to one or the other, antagonizing people against one another in health care. This is a very good project. Thank you so much for him. You actually sat down and figured out what it was supposed to look like. Minister! Recently, I spoke to young people in Poland who deal with various areas of health care. They said clearly that the knowledge of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, all health-related is at European level, and even, I would say, world-wide, but the treatment takes place at county level. That's what I heard from young people who want to learn, who want to learn. This is where you said today's training is huge money. How can they, for their small salaries, carry out these trainings when the employer does not want to add to these trainings yet? There is a declaration that this will be addressed to further work in committees. I am very pleased that this declaration has come down, but I would also like this declaration to be followed by the procedure of this law. I hope that the Minister will see to it that, at the next session of the Sejm, we are going to sit in this law before the holidays and, together with health professionals, reach consensus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If these wages are at the level they are at today, then really these young people are going abroad and it's gonna get worse and worse with our health care. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, the Confederation club, the circle, just the circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u295	Prophetically, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' draft law on conditions of employment in health care proposes amendments to the financing of medical professionals. This project is an expression of the state of consciousness and postulates of the widely understood medical environment, but unfortunately it has been lying in the Seym freezer for over 2 years, as we hear. There is no doubt that the current labour rates for both the number of medical professionals and their remuneration are not adequate to their responsibility. As a general remark, it should be noted that in Western countries the basic medical salary begins in the area of 1.5 national average. In Poland, however, according to current law, this is about 0.64 of the national average, so not much above the minimum wage. As a result, the embarrassingly low level of wages in this sector is the main reason why our medical personnel have flown abroad. Once again, the government is trying to get out of a difficult situation with half-centers. The current meeting was to vote on an amendment to the profession of doctor and dentist opening the Polish labour market to immigration, among others. Far East and Africa. It was intended to introduce an express procedure for the nostrils of foreign diplomas awarded outside the European Union. Such a process would result in a reduction in the quality of treatment and thus could endanger the life and health of Polish patients. It is worth recalling that we have been training many foreigners in Poland for years, and they choose to travel abroad in most cases after completing their studies, the same would be true after the nostrilization of medical diplomas of immigrants from Asia and Africa. Poland would only be a transitional country. We're alerting that in five years' time, almost half of the 200,000. Polish nurses will cross the retirement age limit. And even today, in terms of 1,000. The residents have only 5 nurses. On average, there are 8 of them in the European Union, with an average of 10 in Sweden, Germany, and countries such as Switzerland, Denmark and Norway have 15 nurses out of 1 000. residents. On the eve of the great crisis in medical professions we must tell Poles the truth: in Poland there is a staff collapse, and in the decade even 1/3 of hospitals can be closed precisely because of the lack of medical personnel. In view of such a dramatic situation, let us diagnose that it is the health care system itself in Poland that needs healing. The professions of auxiliary staff, health care professionals and assistants need to be promoted. It is important to build up the profession of a doctor who will relieve him of bureaucracy and reduce this bureaucracy to the maximum. The costs of medical procedures should also be met, the NFZ's system for the settlement of benefits should be reformed and the maximum use of expensive diagnostic and medical equipment in hospitals should be made. Finally, as we are talking about today, it is necessary to change the wage table and labour rates to a more transparent, fairer and adapted to the current economic conditions. We hope that the establishment of a satisfactory wage net for all medical professions will slow down the exodus of Polish specialists educated in Poland, exodus, trips abroad. Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation will vote in favour of directing the civil project to further work. At the same time, we will present our own amendments developed by the social background of the Confederations employed in the medical professions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u296	Thank you. The questions were raised by 15 ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. I still wanted to sign up. Do you mind if I ask you another question? Good. One minute. We have to make it before the votes. Take it easy. We'll make it. I'll follow the discipline of time, as always. The first question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition Club. There is no Member. Mr Marek Rząsa, also the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am an envoy from Podkarpacie, where the collapse of health care is visible at every step, as in the lens all health care problems focus on Podkarpacie. And health care without people, without medical personnel are just walls and useless machines. In order to ensure that this staff does not emigrate for a better life, it is necessary to organise the rules for the remuneration of those employed in health care. That is why I call for support of this social project and at the same time I ask the Prime Minister and each of the PiS Members: Will you vote in favour of the health security of Poles, or will you once again find that there is no resources for it, and at the same time in this room you will try to allocate PLN 2 billion, which you have drawn out of the pockets of Poles, to the propaganda industry, embodied today by one of your politicians, who is running a television called government? I will not quote other terms for respect for this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u298	Mr Waldy Dzikowski, also the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which proposes a change in salaries in medical professions, requires further proceding not only because it is a civic project. It has interesting, innovative solutions that are real to implement at the present time. The method of flat-rate financing of hospitals and the undervalued procedures have led us to debt for more than PLN 14 billion in county hospitals and more. Of course, it's underfinancing or debt is often... Meaning restructuring takes place at the expense of wages - and this is what happens - often in medical professions, among others. physiotherapists' salaries. Does the Ministry of Health have any idea of taking any action in favour of a new method of financing and valuation of procedures that would allow restructuring (the Bell) of the finances and debt of hospitals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club. There is no Member. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, also the club of the Left. There isn't either. Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill comes from medical professions. We have a catastrophic demographic situation in this group. The average age of a nurse or nurse is 50 years old and is impassionedly approaching retirement age. One in four doctors and one in four doctors have already reached retirement age. The doctor's salary after completing the heavy, demanding expenditures and sacrifices of medical studies is today at the minimum wage level. The salary of many physiotherapists or nurses oscillates around the minimum wage. This brings young health workers to the private sector and their emigration. It shuts down hospitals and hospitals. The draft law, which needs to be adapted to the current legal system, rightly advocates that in these highly responsible and socially important medical professions the starting point for determining remuneration is average rather than minimum remuneration. It is a necessary condition for people in Poland to be ready to provide health care within the framework of the public (Dawn) system. Thank you very much. My question: In what perspective can we expect to raise... Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition Club. ...pays health workers, but also other public services, and links them to the average salary? [[Applause]] There used to be a slogan: Economics... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u302	Thank you very much, Member. You couldn't fit in time. Mr. Marshal, how are you acting? Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Club of the Civic Coalition. Not nice, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law was submitted on 15 May 2017. In total, it was signed by 230 thousand. persons. It has been 33 months since then, and according to the article. 13 Laws on the implementation of the legislative initiative have 3 months to process this law. Hence the first question is: Why is it taking so long? Of course, as a rule, I support the bill, but I have two questions asked by the Chief Council of Nurses and Obstetrics, namely: Why for a nurse and a midwife with specialty the proposed working rate is 1.75, while for a specialist in physiotherapy and laboratory diagnostics with specialization - 2.0 ? Why for a nurse and a midwife without specialization the ratio is 1.50 while for laboratory diagnostics without specialization - 1,75 ? It seems to be a little hurtful to nurses and midwives (the bell), so please answer this question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u304	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one will know how you taste until you're broken. Fragment of Jan Kochanowski's Fracture It illustrates the problem with the disease. Health workers should therefore be adequately remunerated. Firstly, doctors and other health professionals at work should be focused only on helping the sick, they should not be concerned about the need to look for additional livelihoods. Secondly, we cannot afford for our specialists who have been educated in Poland, whose education costs we have incurred, to emigrate. The question also concerns the legislative process. Why is it only today that the High House deals with the citizens' bill which entered the Sejm in 2017? The question is whether there is a real will to work on this project, or whether it will be put on a proverbial turtle to make it to the end of the term of office, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not to settle this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Aichler, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I know what health care means, because before I came to the Sejm, I had the opportunity to go to the hospital and I know what it means to work hard for those who have led me to stand before you. Thank you very much for this, and these wishes are addressed to Mrs Barbara Mazana and Dr. November of St. Luke's Hospital in Bydgoszcz. Not just because I'm here, I'm taking the floor. I know the health department has a financial problem. I'll tell you what you should do. Give it to the Minister of Health. For him to have money, don't buy 35 F-35s. Make those F-16s that are standing, and you'll have 20 billion cash for health care. Pay these people. In these days 2,600 PLN salary of nurse after higher education is simply (the bell) shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u308	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! From your response to the interpellation, I learned that on 1 January 41 beds were closed at the university's children's hospital because they did not have secure nurses. It's pretty much in every hospital. There's a huge shortage of personnel. It must be said that the resort does very little to change this situation. How do you treat, for example? Nurses who get specialized? In return, they cannot expect any financial gratification. You kept the contracts at the same level as they were in 2019. You didn't even put any more gold in it. The result is that nurses receive a 30 PLN raise after completing their specialization. In order to pay off these specialization costs, because you don't refund it, and the chambers don't refund it either - yes, yes, see what percentage you pay back - they have to work for the next 13 years. It's just unbelievable how you treat a medical profession. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u310	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This civic project reveals the whole very difficult situation in health care, especially as regards the remuneration of nurses, midwives, emergency workers. In July 2018, an agreement was concluded between nurses, health minister, employers and the National Health Fund. I would like to ask how this agreement is implemented. Is this agreement fully implemented? What funds did the Ministry or the National Health Fund allocate to implement this agreement? In many hospitals, including in county hospitals, often individual departments are... Is there a risk that these troops will be shut down due to the lack of medical personnel? This lack of medical staff is due to the fact that there are insufficient medical staff, but also very low wages. What's the government going to do about it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u312	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We remember what Prime Minister Morawiecki said when the teachers protested. He said that teachers work less than the rest of Poles, and they want to earn more. Now we have learned, High Izbo, what the government, what the Prime Minister thinks in particular about the earnings of Polish nurses. On 12 February, during a Facebook conversation, he was asked if he would convince his own daughter to stay in Poland if she decided to become a nurse. The Prime Minister replied: The cost of living in Poland compared to Norway or London is much lower, therefore wages which are lower, unfortunately still lower, significantly lower, are compensated by the fact that the cost of living is lower. This is Mr. Prime Minister's contribution to explaining the scandalous earnings of doctors, including Polish nurses. I would just like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this year as much as 60,000 may go by profession. Nurses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We must strike, ladies and gentlemen, for the alarm. The question is, Minister, how do we change it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u314	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In terms of the number of doctors per thousand. Polish residents occupy the last place in the European Union. In 2016, the Council The Medical Profession Agreement, which was the first such broad initiative of representatives of different medical communities, prepared two draft laws and gathered under each of over 100,000. signatures. The draft law on employment conditions in health care has been in the Sejm since January 2017. Only after 3 years was it directed to first reading in the Sejm. So we can see how the government is interested in Poles and their health. The lowest monthly remuneration set out in the Act concerns the basic gross remuneration, so it does not include allowances, e.g. For being on duty. The increase in health expenditures in the government version is lower and slower, and wage forks are much less favourable. Why does the government save (the bell) on the health of Poles and minimize the problem of staff shortages? What about the indebted county hospitals, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u316	Thank you, Member, thank you. I was staring. I didn't stop. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant and the Minister. Minister, it's already fallen several times. Today we know that we will not stop Polish doctors, health workers in the country with such low salaries. Do you have any idea how to stop them? First of all, these young people want to grow, they want to gain knowledge, and that knowledge after graduation costs money. I know, because I go to training myself, and I know how many thousands of zlotys it costs. I hope to repeat this once again, I hope that this project will not actually be frozen and will be processed as soon as possible. I have a question for the applicant. Are you really declaring, I hope, that the government, or the Law and Justice, will agree to the procedure that the whole group will come to the committee meeting and we will try to reach some agreement so that it will actually (the bell) be much better in health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u318	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Today's bill is an example of how the Law and Justice Government treats Poles. How he treats civic projects that go to the Sejm. 200,000. signatures submitted under the bill were frozen for several years in the last term. That's one example. The second example is the project on firefighters' pensions - it was also frozen for several years. A coal-deputy project is also a few more years. Today we are dealing with a project that has, you can say, save our health and life, human life, because every day these nurses stand by the sick, they take care of these people. Minister, I have such a question for you: how many nurses are missing today? How many hospitals were closed down because of this? We all know that there is a lack of funding for the operation of hospitals. These are tens of billions of losses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you want to fix the employment system for nurses who take care of sick people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u320	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u321	Thank you, Marshal, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I am a Member of the Lublin Region. In Lublin there is a huge problem with hospitals, there is a collapse in health care caused by the Law on the Network of Hospitals, which entered on 1 October 2017. Hospitals record collapses, especially one, hospital them. Card. Stefan Wyszyński in Lublin. Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't put money into health care for hospitals, to extend, to abolish limits that do not cover actual costs, including wage costs, if we don't make sure that doctors and nurses earn decently, then doctors who are educated in our country, nurses will also go abroad. What is more important than the health and life of citizens? Is it public television or health? I call on the government to adopt the bill and to add money to the bill, because it is not enough to pass the bill. It is important that there is money for the implementation of the bill (the bell). That's what I'm asking and I'm appealing. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u322	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this concern for health professionals. Indeed, employees are the largest capital. It is true that machines and buildings are not about the quality of the benefits provided, but only workers who are employed in medicinal entities and from whom we require high competences. I am glad that we all express this care together. I want to assure you that the government has seen this problem since 2015 which you have repeatedly defined, the lack of human resources, the ageing medical staff. I want to remind you that the average age that nurses or doctors are now reaching is not overnight. We knew 5 years ago, 10 years ago, 15 years ago that there was a demographic disaster, and only since 2015 we started taking concrete action to improve the human resources situation in Poland. And I would like to remind you that since 2014 30 more schools have been established in Poland, where nurses are trained. We had 74 schools, and right now we have 106 schools. Since 2015, we have increased by 6 the number of universities where doctors are educated. Unfortunately, the process of training these professionals takes a long time and these people will be in the system in a few or several years. It is a pity that these actions were not taken early enough. You all point to unequal pay in health care and, above all, very low pay in health care, so that we all know what we are talking about, I would like to remind you that for the first time in 2017, we have prepared a draft law on the minimum basic salary of workers employed in medical entities. It was the first such regulation, which guaranteed a minimum remuneration for all health workers, depending on their education, on their specializations, on the position on which they work. You couldn't hire an employee below, which happened very often before. We have guaranteed a minimum remuneration depending on the indicators you are talking about today. In 2017, when we prepared this bill, we indicated in the impact assessment of the regulation that 16 billion PLN would be needed to implement this law. And these resources are in and out of the system. These are funds which are transferred directly to workers. This bill has evolved. Another change was in 2018, when we extended its scope, we included workers who are involved in the provision of health services that were not covered by this regulation. And last year, we increased the base amount, which is a guarantee that health care workers are guaranteed an increase in wages from year to year. The effects are different in different professional groups: in some professional groups this growth was faster, in others slower. There are professional groups whose salary has increased by around 59% over 4 years. , there are also those where it was 20% Or even 18%. We are working systematically to ensure that health workers are paid. Ladies and gentlemen, you have repeatedly spoken of the lack of resources. Let me remind you that it is the Government of Law and Justice that has drawn up a bill that Parliament has passed on a systematic increase in health expenditure. We are the ones who have prepared a project that allows us to implement many commitments, among others. to employees. Thanks to him, we have more and more resources in the system and can finance these salaries. In 2015 74 billion PLN was allocated to health care in Poland, in 2019 we allocated 106 billion PLN, and this year we are planning to allocate 112 billion PLN. There is a clear increase in expenditure on health care. It also shows how neglected she was. Over the years, it has not been cared about keeping medical personnel to provide adequate funding for these benefits. With regard to the civil project now, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform you that the issue of the remuneration of health professionals is widely discussed - as the applicant's representative mentioned - in the Council of Social Dialogue in a tripartite form with representatives of representative trade unions, employers and government parties. You have confirmed that meetings are often held. We are talking - the Minister of Health meets with various professional groups at bilateral meetings, we are active in social dialogue. It was in your time that the Social Dialogue Council did not work at all. We're not afraid of subjects, we're not afraid of challenges. We are talking and new projects are being created. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are already at the stage of discussions with the Social Dialogue Council. On 24 February we are scheduled to meet in a health care team, in which we will examine proposals for amendments to this law, which is currently in force. We see the need to update it, so this is the kind of work that's going on. These indicators, the amounts you are talking about, are likely to be changed and increased. This is, of course, a very important law that guarantees workers financial security. I would like to stress one more thing: what we have done in the last 4 or 5 years - raising wages, increasing expenditure - has caused the phenomenon of labour emigration, as far as nurses are concerned, to be virtually completely eliminated. Nurses stay in the country, work in the country, because we've improved pay conditions. This also applies to doctors. Of course, there are various life choices, there are trips, but this is not a phenomenon of mass economic emigration, as it happened several years ago. All because we care about the medical staff. We are taking further steps and we will continue to improve the conditions for remuneration. As regards the changes in the valuation of benefits and the financing of hospitals, I gave you the amount of the amounts that we spend on this. We know exactly how much we spend on financing benefits. The cost of benefits also includes labour costs, so the employer has the means to take care of those professional groups for which it has not been regulated separately. That is why you, Minister Szumowski, since last year - mentioned this to you - both met with representatives of medical professions and gave orders to the directors of the Regional Departments of the National Health Fund to talk to employers about the increased funds that were transferred to healthcare providers - from year to year, the amount of these funds is increasing - in part, for the remuneration of employees. This has happened, in many medical entities, increases have been introduced for physiotherapists, diagnostics, pharmacists, technicians - for those workers who are also very important in terms of providing benefits. Unfortunately, some of these employers have not yet fulfilled this promise. Therefore, together, even with you, who represents the applicants, we meet and talk on a daily basis to support those workers who have problems enforcing these salaries from their employer. So that I hope that these actions that we are taking will continue, that they will result in medical staff, which in Poland are a condition for the good functioning of the health system, to be stopped. By the way, I would like to provide you with information because this has been shown in many questions. The issue of post-graduate education, doctors, nurses or other medical professions. Of course, the cost of education is very high, but I would like to remind you that it is the government that finances the costs of residents, that is, the specialization of doctors. From year to year, we're increasing our resources for residency. This is the cost of the state budget. We also increase spending on specialization training for nurses. Last year we spent 8 million, and this year we spend 9 million on post-graduate education. From year to year, this is increasing so that the representatives of these professions do not really have to finance post-graduate training by their own means. We are also taking steps to facilitate this learning process. We introduce, among others. to subsequent legal acts, training leave of 6 days. Further professional groups, because the next projects are already prepared, will have the opportunity to use a paid training leave of 6 days so that they can carry out their professional improvement calmly. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that these actions that we are talking about show that the Government of Law and Justice is taking care of the staff in order to improve their situation. We take action, we talk to the social partners, also with employers' representatives. From year to year, we are taking steps to ensure that more and more funding for the financing of benefits is secured in the state budget. And that's what happens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u324	Thank you very much. A representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Tomasz Dybek, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I will answer the Minister in a very simple way: fairy tale, fairy tale, propaganda and that's all. It doesn't reflect in reality. I will address the questions for which I thank you very much. The first of the questions was regarding the legislative procedure that dates do not change. This is legally considered so that, when the Committee moves to second reading, it must make an automatic amendment. Now we can't change anything. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I don't know all of you by name. The applicant asked me a question about specialization in nurses. The whole community was involved in the process of writing this project: nurses, physiotherapists and doctors. I hope you didn't do it on purpose when it comes to what you said, because you want to divide the environment. That's not nice, sir. I'm sending you back to read this bill. One table is enough to read with understanding. Thank you. But you're talking to me? No, to the Member who talked about the difference in the physiotherapists and nurses' physiotherapists. Just read this project by entering the discussion. If you'd heard from the nurses that this wasn't true, you'd have gone out on the stand and said, 'cause the ladies told me to say it wasn't true? Read it. I think you represent your group. Sir, this is no place for discussion. Please continue your statement and do not discuss it with the room. The nurses were involved in the process of creation. I hope that the Member has done so unconsciously. With regard to the next question, the agreement of medical professions and physiotherapists or diaphragm, or representatives of other medical professions participate in all meetings of the Health Committee, so we are ready to proceed on this. On the last question: the trilateral team, the Social Dialogue Council, all the medical professions that are represented here. I too, my humble person, am on the Social Dialogue Council, I am on a trialogue, so I do not see any obstacles to this as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u326	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the conditions of employment in health care contained in print No.35 to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds (Print No 37). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Tomasz Dybek to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This project was lying in the refrigerator from starvation, probably already died of starvation, literally, because it was created during starvation in 2017. We've raised 150,000. signatures in two weeks. Once again this postulate, this project has united all the medics, we have united once again. And, of course, on 7 February 2018, the first reading took place, very quickly, a day later the Minister made a meeting with residents, an agreement was signed with residents on the increase in health care expenditure and that's where it all started, you can say. There's speculation. Do you hear from the ruling: patient, quick access, patient care? Do you hear, like, a conversion factor, a grid conversion factor? You don't care about the patient... They don't care about the patient, they care about what the conversion methodology is supposed to be and what the increase in health care expenditure is supposed to be. I must tell you in a very simple way: 6,8% that is the minimum that a country must have in order to function normally. The European Union average is above 10% gross domestic product. Not to mention such countries as: Germany 11% , Sweden. But it works as it works, we don't hear: patient, quick access, evaluation, only government side focuses on conversion and proving. In the last two years, 357 branches have been closed, 357 hospitals have been closed. I could give you information from more than 500 institutions we have about access to speech therapy, psychologists, physiotherapists, but that's not the point, you know how state health care works today. Because there must be the right means, the right effort to function normally. Colloquially speaking, from the empty one, and Solomon will not pour. Diagnostics. I will base myself on a report from an institution called the Supreme Audit Chamber. The expenditure on laboratory tests in Poland is many times lower than in highly developed countries. In Poland, laboratory diagnostics are underestimated, and in terms of supplies of laboratory diagnostic products against the background of the European Union, they are small: 8.5 euro per person in Poland, while in Slovenia - 23 euro, in Germany - 27 euro, in Belgium - 33 euro. If there is no good diagnosis, then how is the patient to proceed to the next stage, which is how is the doctor to diagnose? Access to psychologist: Warsaw - 2 months, Świętochłowice - 2 months; psychotherapy: Małopolska Zachodnia - about 3 years, Podkarpackie -1.5 years, Pomorskie - 2 I could bore you with this data. That's how it works today, unfortunately. This is a brutal reality. Logopedo. These logopeds employed full-time in the state health service, health care is only 1028, in total there are about 2 000 of them at half-time. Waiting time - 6, 7 months. I won't mention it again. About how it was after the stroke. After the stroke, he's a physiotherapist with a patient who works, speech therapist and psychologist. Unfortunately, they're not in the wards. Not to mention rehab. What's this rehab after trauma if it's in two months, three months, five months? Oh, my gosh, that person has to go to her in private. Yet the Constitution guarantees us all equal access to health protection. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister spoke about education. Physiotherapists and lab diagnes. The specialization for which they have to pay with their money costs 20 and 30 thousand. zł. So much for specialty. They don't have the vacation the Minister was talking about. They don't have a day's leave. And the Ministry of 23 July 2017 imposed an obligation to study on these professions. It's hard to talk about the frustration of the environment. We're dating, it doesn't make any sense, which is why we're sick of these fairy tales. In conclusion, what has been happening beautifully since 2015 with health, was propaganda, a change of narrative. For the first 2 years or 1.5 years it was possible to hear in Poland: Polish and Polish, for the last 8 years... And it was a narrative. But at some point you had to say to yourself: stop, stop, because we're already in charge. It's a historic moment. You've heard the Minister say, "Historical moment is this bill, a law that makes medicine so good." The minister said 3900 and 4200. 119 PLN and 163, difference 40 PLN gross. It was this historic moment. They're just fairy tales. Later, as part of the next propaganda of success, the government announced that there would be a reduction of queues, but only to two treatments - cataracts and endoprothesis. I'm not gonna go into the details of the endoprothesis because you know what they were last time. Let's move on, 4200 - propaganda, an increase in the conversion rate from 3900 to 4200 - it turned out to be what it was. And now from January 1, we hear: 2600 PLN each earns. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and today I got this. We waited for the so-called. the first payments that took place on 10 February. Today it doesn't matter what physio therapist, the diagnostics should make 2600 zlotys. Propaganda of success. They have 2100 zlotys, 2200 zlotys, 2300 zlotys. A service of years is calculated from this amount. It's not a service of 2600 years, it's from what's on the contract. Going further, how is the supplement fixed so that only 2600 zlotys earn? And that's another bypass of the law, but that's the minimum you hear about. Now, I've heard the Minister say that since March 1st there will be further procedures, the queues in cardiology, orthopedics, neurologists and endocrinologists have been eliminated. I don't know who's gonna use it so fast because someone needs quick help. We're talking about indicators, frostbite, about the twenty-fourth meeting - yes, I'm taking part in it, I know - but why talk about indicators when you have a project ready? That's where all the environments signed up. These environments also participated in the Social Dialogue Council and the Tripartite Team. Here and now you have it. To sum up this propaganda of success, I will quote one MEP. As it turns out, this MEP a few days ago on Twitter - of course it is from the government camp - summarized it in a very simple way: In no other way did Poland remain as disgusting a post-communist state and society as in the field of health care. I'm not talking about exceptions. I'm talking about individual doctors and nurses. I'm talking about the whole system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u328	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Violetta Porowska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u329	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the citizens' draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The stated purpose of the bill is to ensure equal access to health care services for citizens by increasing health care expenditure to a maximum of 6,8% GDP from the previous year, provided that the amount of funding allocated to health finance for the years 2018 to 2020 may not be less than 5,2% GDP from the previous year in 2018, to 6.2% GDP from the previous year in 2020, i.e. this year. Only these assumptions show that the draft law is broadly applicable to the past. Moreover, on 1 January 2018, the Government Act on the provision of public-funded healthcare entered into force, as amended, which regulates inter alia. issues covered by this citizens' bill. It is worth noting at this point that government solutions are an unprecedented increase in health expenditure in the past, and this is not propaganda, but facts. Well, no previous government, no party before - apart from the boastful exception of the project by Prof. Religion, which neither the Civic Platform nor the PSL wanted to continue - I will repeat once again: no previous government took responsibility for regular, permanent, progressive, regardless of the economic situation, to increase annual expenditure on health protection. Others have only said - often not true - but it is the government of Law and Justice that has a real and responsible effect on health care. And now the facts. Between 2015 and 2019 health expenditure increased by PLN 25 billion, and only for this year is another significant increase in health funding, as much as PLN 8.5 billion. Given that last year's expenditures reached 5,25% GDP, and this year we're going to see another growth, that's a 6% ceiling. GDP will be achieved earlier than expected in 2024. In short, the Government of Law and Justice is carrying out its declarations and plans faster than it promised. Does this mean that we are satisfied with the present state of affairs in health care? Of course not. But you have to have a very bad will not to notice these historically large expenditures. Let me repeat once again: historically large investments for the first time. Today we can objectively state that the repair of the Polish health system by increasing expenditure on health care is already taking place. You'd like to say, finally. But reconstruction of Polish health services should also take place through the introduction of mechanisms to increase the efficiency of spending, rationalisation of system processes. This should be discussed today by responsible, far-sighted discussions. An unprecedented increase in health expenditure is currently taking place. This direction will continue. Therefore, although the citizens' draft of this law has been largely exhausted, consummated by the Government's 2017 law, the Law and Justice Club proposes to pass on the project to the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If it's so good, why are we even talking about this trouble? I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition's position regarding print No. 37, the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, the civil project which entered the High Sejm on 5 December 2017, and talks about an increase in expenditure of 6,8 GDP in 2021. Of course, the first reading took place. The project went to the Health Committee. The Health Committee has reached a position, has given a negative opinion on this project and has gone into the drawer, into the freezer, whatever we call it. And at that time, the government was very quickly and very well prepared for these historic events that you spoke about, for those historic expenditures that never took place, and in 2018 it prepared, passed the Act on GDP growth to 6% by 2024. And we know very well that, contrary to what the Member has said, the situation has deteriorated almost from month to month or year to year. I would like to say to you that, according to the very important European institution, our health protection, assessed in 2018, was already a three-year rule of law and justice, one of the worst systems in Europe. We were in 32nd place in 35 evaluated countries. The historical expenditures on health protection, which you are talking about, amounted to EUR 350 billion in Germany in 2016, in France - 260 and in Poland - 25 billion, in Germany. In Spain... And what were they like in 2013? I didn't disturb you, Member. In Spain, 100 billion and Spain is only 8 million larger in terms of the human population. We are talking about employees, about salary increases, and meanwhile in Poland it is 2.4, that I will say so ugly, a doctor for 1,000. residents. We are also at one of the last places when it comes to the number of doctors in Europe. In Austria there are more than 5.2, and the European average is 3.7 doctors per thousand. residents. Nurses in Poland are 5.1 out of 1,000. The population, Norway - 17, Czech Republic - 8, and the European average is 9.4. The age of doctors, I'm a doctor myself, I know my PESEL, is that there are about 150,000 at the moment. active doctors, but there are over 30,000 in this group. pensioners. If they had given their notice one day, and they were already close to the electronic prescription, Minister, it would be a health care system, it could be said to have fallen. There are still many nurses, but in the next four years about 40,000 will be lost. Nurses. She also spoke about the great burden on health protection. Indeed, revenues from the introduction of a network of hospitals, for our hospitals that are online, increased from 2017 to 2018 by 13%, but costs increased by 17%. Hospitals are in debt, especially county hospitals, and quarterly these debts are increasing, even several hundred million. The fact that Polish hospitals are obliged to pay over PLN 14 billion does not need to be mentioned, because everyone knows that, and the liabilities are due to more than PLN 2.5 billion. The debt of Polish hospitals in the last 4 years has increased by 3 billion. Madam President, it was not only the Member who spoke about the great burden on health protection, the historical growth. It's not from the state budget. This is the money from the contributions that result from the salaries, and these measures are affecting the National Health Fund. But any proposal to increase health funding, in this case a civil project 6,8, of course, will be supported by our club and we will be in favour of further proceeding on this project. And that's what I'm gonna ask the High Sejm to do, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u332	Thank you. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u333	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! During the election campaign Law and Justice promised changes in health care, a cross-party pact, five Kaczyńskis. That's the five in your budget proposal you can't see. You also said other things that the health situation was the result of many years of negligence. And I agree with you here. But what have you done for the last five years? Almost nothing. Now you have a second term, and where's the breakthrough? From the presentation of the plans of the Ministry of Health at the committee meeting, I have the impression that this term will also be filled with empty speech, because the objective of Law and Justice has, in fact, remained the same: keep real expenditure on health protection at the same level as GDP. For years, we've been oscillating around 4.5 and 4.7 percent. GDP for health protection. The average in OECD countries is 6.7% GDP. More, you've decided to lie about it by adopting a creative way of calculating your health costs. Unseen in the world. You're counting on GDP two years ago. Somehow you can count your military expenses by this year. You care about the army, and you don't care about the people anymore. But you don't lie to me, Lefty, you don't lie to the opposition. In your eyes, you lie to patients and patients, health care personnel, sick and dying. I'm not gonna tell you how long people wait in line because we know how long we wait in lines. If we're worried about whether we're gonna make it before we get worse or dead. We realize how long we have to wait for a specialist's doctor or simply for a simple visit. Diaphragm, rehabilitation, nurses earn pennies, and each of these professions must be trained on an ongoing basis, of course, for its own. I talked to the physiotherapists, 2,000. On hand, the cost of training 20,000, of course, for yours. And the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister believes that since the cost of living in Poland is low, low salaries are not the biggest problem in the world. Says the man who made tens of thousands a month. She's not complaining about poverty now either. Instead of working in the health system, you still require heroic acts in the name of the mission. The staff has such a password, very accurate: by not hiring, voting with their legs and leaving. When is it gonna get to you that people aren't gonna work for pennies? During the 2015 campaign, you spoke a lot about the dignity of work. How quickly you've forgotten this is truly regrettable. People who save the lives of our children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents, work for starvation salaries. And the raises? Increases can be seen when the minimum wage is increased. Midwives in smaller towns are closed. Apart from the big cities, night and Christmas health care are being wound up. The waiting time for an ambulance is extended. Hospitals have problems with organizing S.R.'s work, lack of staff, and people die waiting for good health care. It's all because you can't say to your finance buddies, no, that money can't be done. And as a result, the system is being reformed by itself, by decomp. You don't have the guts to accept digital tax, tax international corporations, and use that money to protect your health because you're afraid of them. That's what PiS looks like getting up off his knees. That is why we appeal to you: raise real expenditure on health care. This money will go on staff salaries so that Poland will eventually stop exporting workers and employees to Germany, the Netherlands or the Czech Republic. The Member said here that there is no problem with leaving. Then let him drive to the village in the Czech Republic, because recently I spoke to the hospital staff who say that the hospitals at the Czech border they don't have doctors because they work in the Czech Republic. They will also go to abolish the limits on the provision of benefits so as to finally start really. So that no parent has to beg for money to treat their child on the Internet, on Facebook, to beg people for surgery, expensive therapy. We wholeheartedly support the Medical Profession Agreement's proposal to increase health expenditure to 6,8% GDP, because we know we can't fix the health system without it. At the beginning of the year, the left club submitted its own project, gradually increasing the expenditure to 7.2% GDP and changing this shameful way of counting expenditure on health care. If you really want Poles and Poles to have good health care, stop lying to them, accept the project of the social side, accept the project of the Left, increase the expenditure on health care, finance health protection, as other European countries do. We can't still be in the tail. You have to do something. If you don't do it (the bell) then the failure to protect your health will actually be your fault. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u334	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Healthcare in Poland suffers from a lack of money. This is the first and most important cause of further ailments of the health system in our country. Poor treatment efficiency, lack of available benefits, lack of doctors and nurses, and consequently poor management, which complements the witchcraft of bitterness. Poland is at the gray end in terms of expenditure on health care. Further reports from the European Commission and the OECD make this clear. The experts are clear: without increased expenditure on the health system, we will not take a single step forward. As much as this money is missing, you can see even after the financial results of hospitals for 2018. The net loss in marshal hospitals in the Łódź voivodship is PLN 71 million. But these are hospitals that have a relatively rich owner who provides investment support and thus depreciation that saves the results of individual facilities. Unfortunately, it is much worse in county hospitals, which divides the gap from local government institutions. Finally, the problem that needs to be seen is the increasing debt of a large proportion of medicinal products. In this case, the slogan for a balanced state budget is perceived in many places in Poland as a grim joke or even a mockery of honest people. Why does there have to be more money in the system? You don't need to be an expert to know that patients have to wait for certain medical benefits, treatments and even medical advice, because the NFZ doesn't have the possibility to finance these benefits on an ongoing basis. Another very important argument that there must be more money in the system is the fact that from year to year there is an increasing gap between medical knowledge and what the State can offer to the patient in the framework of public insurance. There is a kind of health care of two speeds: for those who have money, and for those who benefit from universal insurance and treatment in the NFZ. Finance really limits patients' access to modern treatments. In many cases, our doctors have global knowledge and treatment can offer district services. I have myself experienced a situation where a young, capable surgeon leaves the hospital because the management or the owner of this hospital cannot afford to buy equipment and adapt the infrastructure to the possibilities that this doctor and his team have. An example is nuclear medicine, access to PET research and restrictions on the use of new radiopharmaceuticals. These are only legal changes that no one in Poland makes, nor does they add money. Another problem is that there are too few medical staff in public services, especially doctors and nurses. Looking at the total number of doctors, we have the least, given their number per thousand. residents, throughout the European Union. For Poland this average is 2.2 per 1,000. In the European Union, there are 4 doctors out of 1 000. residents. NIK, the Supreme Audit Office, calls every year for more expenditure on health care. The underfunded health system is a barrier not only for the patient, but also for the staff, the person managing the facility and the owner of the facility. Many experts appeal not only to increase the expenditure on health in Poland, but even to increase the resources allocated from the state budget. I think this is the last time to do this. I would like to draw attention, for example, to the current inflation rate. Prices go up, and hospitals with these finances live in a permanent strike alert system. A question should be asked about the NFZ. Is he going to be eliminated or not? In the election campaign, Law and Justice politicians spoke loudly about this. After the election, I didn't hear a discussion about it. It is worth noting that the NFZ is a centralised institution and 80% institutions are in the hands of the local government. Unfortunately, local authorities have no impact on the level of funding. The question arises as to whether it is not worth considering the self-regulation of the health care system, including the NFZ's finances. For this reason, among others, and for many other reasons, we strongly support the bill, which envisages increasing the financing of the health system in Poland to 6,8%. GDP. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All parties outside the Confederation have exactly the same approach to health care: add more money. This is a philosophy that is based on the assumption that if we add more money to the system, this system will work better. We're the only ones who think that's not possible. This system has been badly constructed from the very beginning. We must remember that it is an inheritance of the rule of the Democratic Left Alliance, which means it can certainly not work well. Nothing works well there, this system is extremely centralized, this system is extremely bureaucratic and one central office is unable to solve the health problems of 38 million Poles living in our country. Just co-financing alone won't solve your health problems. We need to bring about a thorough system reform. Inspiration should be sought, for example, in the Czech Republic, where patients have been given the opportunity to raise health standards through co-payment. We can look for inspiration in Singapore, where people are allowed to manage their own health contributions. It should be stressed that all other opposition clubs have similar ideas. They're bidding on who's gonna pay more. At the same time, these parties have not identified in a responsible manner the sources of funding they wish to cover the growing expenditure in the health care system. Only the Confederation doesn't fit in with the division I've drawn. We do not want to bid with other parties, but we want to point out where to look for money to increase the level of funding for healthcare. We propose that, as a Norwegian example, we make profits from the extraction of natural goods, in particular copper ores and silver, in order to build a stable security for the state's health commitments. In this direction, I think, we should be going to really secure our health system. With a major crisis ahead of us due to the shortage of medical personnel, however, we need to consider the support of medical staff by more than previously employed auxiliary staff, healthcare professionals and medical assistants. The introduction of such elements in the system will ultimately allow for a milder survival of the staff crisis, which is inexorably approaching, and a little more rationalization. costs incurred. For these reasons, the Confederacy Circle will abstain from voting on this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Fellow Preface! Let me put it this way: a really good reform of the health system was started in 1999, and it has been ruined since 2004, and it has been ruined until today. All we do is reform, reform, and it gets worse. So I'd suggest we stop reforming, listen to professionals, give money and demand. On the other hand, I would like to say that today I welcome the fact that we are debating the citizens' draft law on amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision, even though this committee of initiative submitted a draft in that term of office in 2017. Today is 2020 and it is not true what Mrs Porowska said because this project is still up to date. [[Applause]] The objective that has been set is still to be achieved and I would like to call in this debate for us to really lean on this project. In fact, I wanted to appeal to the right side of the room, but I see, Marshal, that you are alone. And I think there's a friend. So I'm asking you, let's really sit down over-party, substantively, to solve this problem. Because if it's so good, why is it so bad? After all, at every turn we discuss the state of health care. Today at the hour. 9 a.m., the new building had a meeting of the task force. county hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the old men said: We no longer put out fires, we are simply preparing applications for closure, for liquidation. This is total bankruptcy. Of course, some clinical hospitals, marshal hospitals are in a slightly better condition, but also not quite. For many years I have been chairman of the Social Council at one of the voivodship hospitals and I must say that although this hospital always ends a year with good results, it has amazing problems. A representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee said 357 closed branches. Mr Hok said three billion debts. These are indicators that make it very clear that we should lean forward to speed up our efforts. I would like to see these indicators achieved thanks to these proposals that were prepared in 2017. I think we'd have a much better situation in hospitals. We really have a lot of professionals who clearly show us that. For two terms, since 1999, I was responsible for implementing health care reform in voivodship hospitals. At that time we also worked with district authorities, i.e. the old-timers who ran county hospitals. I must say that we have often talked about the fact that there are simple reserves, we have said: let's reform these institutions, some of this money is. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2020 and today we clearly see that money is simply lacking and that the Ministry, the government side, is introducing certain initiatives. Most of these initiatives are tasks without resources, i.e. the hospital director must be concerned about how to cover it from this budget, from this contract, how to pull this short quilt to the other side, so that at this point this money will be enough. You can't go on like this. Therefore, I would ask that we really have a cross-party sitting here, in Parliament, sitting down and solving this problem, so that we do not have to discuss further such projects. God forbid we meet here again and discuss such a project. On this occasion, I have one more request. This is also a topic that I am systematically talking about when we are debating about health. Once - the size of these funds, but two - the way they are divided into different branches. I am from Opole Voivodeship. It's a shame Mrs. Porowska left because she knows exactly what the situation is. This Monday I was at the head of the National Health Fund in Opole, because we've been talking about resources for months about a contract for a neurosurgery department that's been standing by for 268 days. We can't ask for a contract. Minister! Please look at this and wonder if we can afford to spend (the bell) investment funds in millions and then wait for these medical services to be provided. And needs are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u340	Thank you. High Seym! 11 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. She's gone again. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poles cannot wait years in endless queues for operations that save health and life. Therefore, the need to raise the financial level is probably not subject to any discussion. There's a simple prescription for that, just don't steal it. Just don't give away money between yourself, yours and yours. Ladies and gentlemen, I hold in my hand a dramatic list of women from the district of Strzycki, who, through the liquidation of the gynecological and obstetric unit, are taken away by law, equal access to health protection and the possibility of safe delivery. I remind you that such rules are enshrined in the Polish Constitution. And, surprisingly, ladies and gentlemen, this is happening under the rule of a party that, in a low demography, sees a very big threat that bends over every conceived being and at the same time eliminates maternity wards. Today is the time of the test and the truth. Will you vote for the purpose of the money (the bell) for the treatment of cancer patients... Thank you very much. ...on pregnant women and newborns, or on television hat, contempt, sting and hate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u342	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that, at last, after 3 years, the Sejm was brought into the Sejm - and once again there is discussion - a citizens' bill increasing the level of funding in the health care system to 6,8% gross domestic product. The health of Poles today is one of the most important challenges for the government. This is a challenge that governments should address as soon as possible. Let me add that the Civic Coalition has declared an increase in health expenditure. Government representatives have repeatedly promised to increase health care expenditures and to increase the pay of resident doctors or nurses. I would therefore like to ask the applicants: Are you discussing the solutions you are proposing with government representatives? If so, what do these conversations look like? What was the government's position and position? I believe that the subject of health protection should be the subject of a nationwide, broad debate, including a round table, so as to address the most pressing and urgent issues in the health system as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u344	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, also the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From year to year, the situation of public health services is becoming more and more dramatic. Hospital debt has been rising at record rates for several years. The situation does not improve staff shortages and the government's lack of concern for medical professionals. However, there are measures for propaganda, and these are extremely low flights. On the one hand, the President admits that the cost of living is rising and on the other hand the Prime Minister says that the lack of increases is compensated for by lower costs of living. It's a shame all this is at the expense of the health of our countrymen. The authors of the project rightly point out that the resources allocated to the provision of health services are insufficient. Additional support for health care can be the transfer of funds that the government intends to spend on public television, the amount of PLN 2 billion, and their allocation to health care, to the fight against cancer. This action will support the demands of the authors of the law. So will the government take such action? The funds are, only you need to make a transfer, and including the Law of Justice is already in place. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Poles in public opinion polls think that the most important issue for them is the issue of repairing health care. If so, it is our common duty, parliament and government, to look for ways to solve this basic problem of Poles and Poles. Surely, one of these elements is insufficient funding for health care. That is why this citizens' project is part of the search for a solution, i.e. the fuller financing of health care needs, as is the Left project, which Mrs Marcelina Zawisza referred to. If it is as good as the honourable Member said it is, why today over PLN 14 billion in debt to county hospitals? Those counties in which indebted hospitals operate have limited functioning and development. I wanted to ask (the bell) how the government will be given assistance to these hospitals this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u348	Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a saying: the government feeds. You can say that the government will heal because you have the opportunity. Even rehabilitation equipment is sometimes carried by hospital directors to their homes. Speaking of serious matters, every decent Pole and every decent Polish woman must answer the question of whether 2 billion from the state budget will be spent on the National Oncology Strategy, for cancer treatment - 30,000. Poles and Poles die prematurely of cancer - will these 2 billion PLN be spent on TVPiS propaganda? Let me remind you, High Izbo, these stripes, the stripes of shame that we know from the news of TVP. The doctor's rails become the past - you remember this belt. And the next one: The salaries are growing like on yeasts. The question is, who are they growing up to? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u350	Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, in my speech I said, I called for, however, a cross-party work to be carried out on the increase of these measures. I would like to ask very specific questions about what I said at the end, namely the system of contracting services. Are you expecting a job, a return to a more proven cash system? Are you thinking of changing this allocation algorithm to the different branches of the National Health Fund? I do not hide that in the case of these smaller voivodships it is very unfair. The division of these resources makes it very often possible to afford much in one region, and in this region, which has fewer resources, it is much, much harder. Do you want to review this during this term? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u352	Thank you. Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In my speech I also talked about general issues, but I have a specific question. Minister, you are talking about an annual increase in health expenditure. This follows, as I said, of course, from the increased contribution, from the increased wages. But the demographic is clear. We have an ageing society. Unfortunately, these contributions will not increase at some point, because in the case of people who work and save their health contributions, they will be limited. Therefore, I ask you: What are you going to finance the expectations you are talking about, e.g. Unlimited access from April 1st to cardiologist, neurologist, orthopedist and endocrinologist? There's no money for that unless you have it secured. I would ask the Minister to answer the question as to whether there are real resources for this. You've released the MRI and CT scans, and very well, but the radiologists' queue has been extended, which describe these tests, and the specialist's queue has been extended, because without the radiological description of this test, no specialist will accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u354	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the treatment of nuclear medicine, which has recently been developing very dynamically and is extremely helpful to patients. Will the Ministry of Health finally respond to the pending requests to extend the list of reimbursements of studies with PET indications? It is primarily about new types of radiopharmaceuticals and the number of studies that should be increased by around 30%, as experts in this field point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today I would like to take this opportunity to ask the representative of the government when the implementation of the Health Pact will begin. President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish proposed a pact involving an increase in healthcare expenditure to a minimum of 6,8% GDP, raise the salaries of all health professionals by 30% and promote prevention. These seem to be the necessary steps to get health care back on its feet. I would like to ask one of the signatories to this agreement, and it is also the Polish government, when there will be action to implement it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u358	Thank you very much. High Seym! The Marshal of the Sejm has convened the Senior Convention, and I'm forced to close the session for a moment, but we still have a few minutes. Will the Minister fit in in five minutes with his speech? It could be hard. We don't know. Okay, I'm calling it a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 51 hrs. 18 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 15 of the agenda. Mr. Sławomir Gadomski now has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u359	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I regret now, Marshal, that I did not take this advice. In those five minutes, I would have tried to do my best, especially since a group of Members were still more interested at that time. But also in the case of a civil project, I wanted to respectfully approach the applicants and answer them, address the project itself and its concept. What do I want to draw attention to first and first, and where do I start? The chairman, the applicant, was saying that all we're talking about today is what's happening in the health care department, it's some fairy tales and there's a discussion from the government about how we're counting expenditures, not about the patient, not about availability. I think it's quite the opposite, and the facts point to it. In order not to develop this, not to drag these facts out of the way for a very long time, I'm going to give you short facts. Only from 2020, which has just begun. Many times, also in this Chamber, we have talked about child psychiatry, child and youth psychiatry, its underfunding, the lack of investment in this area. Exactly, we have also seen this need, and if we compare spending on child psychiatry in 2019 and 2020, we will see an unprecedented increase from 221 million to 504 million, by 228%. It's not fairy tales, it's a fact. It is a fact and these measures, these hard measures, will be directed to this very sensitive area - child psychiatry. Infirmary specialist care. It is also not another fairy tale, it is not a dream and the first in many years we will raise the valuations in AOS: this year by almost 20%, from 1 January 2021 by another 10, and this is precisely associated with limitless benefits and lifting limits to the neurologist, orthopedicist, cardiologist, endocrinologist. This is what we want to allocate about PLN 300 million. It's not a fairy tale either, it's a fact. Only at the beginning of February, 4 February, on the World Day for Combating Cancer, the National Oncology Strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers. It's not a fairy tale, it's a fact. For the next 10 years, we want to direct PLN 5 billion only to actions related to the implementation of the strategy. At the beginning of January, another resolution of the Council of Ministers concerning the Central Clinical Hospital in Poznań. It is a long-awaited investment consolidating three clinical hospitals, which operated under very difficult infrastructure conditions. More than PLN 500 million from the state budget for this investment. The end of December 2019 - a grant from the state budget to the National Health Fund for PLN 2.7 billion, which is intended primarily to increase the availability of benefits in 2020. Another fact. The analysis of the state budget itself, the budget law that the Sejm is currently investigating, shows further facts. Increase by more than 136 million funding for university education, increase in study limits. Another fact. All the limits we've been talking about... Many times today, there was a lack of human resources. We are well aware of that. With this in mind, we increased these limits by more than 50%, and in 2015 there were 6.5 thousand. students accepted for studies, in the academic year 2019/2020 and 9,5 thousand. That's over 50%. It's not a fairy tale again, it's a fact. And the last fact is also resulting from the same budget law. There was also a statement here that we are spending too little on education, so if we look at the position concerning traineeships, residents, general education in funds, in the Labour Fund, in the last 2 or 3 years we have increased this amount more than twice: from PLN 1 billion to PLN 2.2 billion for today. These are all facts. They're not fairy tales. These are also the facts caused by what happened in 2017 and later in 2018, namely the first preparation by the government and then the adoption by the Sejm of the so-called. Act 6% That's a bill that's supposed to bring us closer to what we've been talking about in this room. It is intended to bring us closer, which is to increase really the financing of health services through this stable - although spread over several years - increase in health expenditure. We look at it really, and we realize that these growths could, of course, have been bigger. In particular, as a representative of the health department, I probably would very much like them to be much higher. But this discussion must also take place in a government forum, in a discussion with the Minister of Finance, in a forum of opportunities that we have today. I would like to thank Mr Kaminski very warmly for his speech in which he pointed out something that is real, i.e. showing certain draft laws. I'm talking about a civil project here, but I think the Sejm is about to bend over to a very similar law of the Left, a similar law of the PSL, where we will really talk about an increase in health expenditure. So I really repeat Mr Kaminski's question. I would be grateful - I think that I and even more the Minister of Finance - if you show you the source of funding for these laws. On TV, you serve. I know, sir. Television was falling from this platform, so maybe I can tell you and the High House where there's TV expenditures, and where are the ones we're talking about today, with this bill. If we had adopted this law, the Sejm would have adopted it, then the expenditure on health protection would have to be increased automatically by almost PLN 30 billion already in 2020. If we adopted the Left Act, the PSL Act, these increases would be even greater. Let's start with the 2 billion. Mr President, 45 billion - up to 2 billion for television. I think we're very distant. So today we cannot compare the law we are talking about, the law we are probably going to talk about - it is about getting to the next increased percentage of GDP - with the 2 billion that are going on TV. Because this is a discussion at all about a completely different level of quotas and a completely different level of involvement of the state budget. It seems to me that the answer to many of the demands that have come from this speaker is this law that increases expenditure. It's a fact, it's not something mythical, it's not something we're not realizing. Moreover, since the Sejm passed this law, since the President signed it, we are not only carrying out these expenditures, we are carrying them out. What is more - also from this speaker - it is a result of good economics, it is the result of the fact that the contributions are growing and the National Health Fund has more resources. That's a fact, I don't argue with that fact. But also please pay attention to what has never been done before - for 2017, for 2018, for 2019, i.e. funds from the state budget just to the National Health Fund. 1 billion in 2017, 1.8 billion in 2018 and 2.7 billion in 2018 - a record grant, a grant that was never before - in 2019. In fact, Mrs Zawisza was talking about staff, about very low staff salaries. To be honest, I am listening to a very interesting interview with the President of the Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, who says: "We have finally started to respect us, we are not at the limit of minimum wage, and finally someone has noticed us and these salaries have increased. I listen to the representatives of the District Medical Chambers, the Chief Medical Chamber - they clearly say that they no longer want and do not insist on increasing the remuneration of doctors, that is not the purpose of their actions. Paramedics - another group. But even referring to the state budget - health inspection, somewhat forgotten. More than 220 million PLN - this is also an increase in the amount of remuneration in this group. Mrs Zawisza also spoke about a certain fear of raising taxes, and I hear something that is quite in contradiction with it. If we really want to implement the sugar levy, the sugar tax, we hear quite a general criticism of this tool. From who? Who's it from? It seems to me, Mrs Izbo and I, that we have no fear of seeking solutions that are also intended to increase resources for broadly understood health. Mr Klimczak spoke about the need for jumping growth. It's just this jumping growth that's going on. If in 2 years the expenditure on health increased from PLN 90 billion to PLN 110 billion, i.e. by more than 23%, this is an increase in leaps. It's hard, I think, to discuss this with the honourable Members. I am happy to subscribe to what Mr Galla has said. Indeed, I think that this law will be addressed to work in committee, and I encourage the substantive discussion within this committee, above all, about the sources of funding for this and similar legislation. I think that's what we're gonna do, whatever we're gonna accept. We will accept as government, we will accept as Sejm 6,8% GDP will be six months, and 7.5% will be asked. In such a way, let's say to ourselves, the negotiating attitude is about to come up with laws that are going to talk about 10%. GDP, why not? I'm sure as Minister of Health I'd be willing to do that. Yes? But I repeat the question: What will be the source of funding for these laws and where to look for them. And as I said, this year, the bill will require about PLN 30 billion more. Several specific questions have been raised about certain solutions. Mr Hok asked about the limitless, whether the unlimited benefits in these four areas were financially secured. Yeah, the National Health Fund has the resources for that. As I said, we want to allocate over PLN 300 million and these funds will be guaranteed in the National Health Fund plan. I have already talked about the Polish Television and regarding these 2 billion to what the expectations of this law are. Mr Klimczak asked a very interesting and detailed question about nuclear medicine. Excuse me, I'll answer that question in writing. The subject is indeed very interesting. In conclusion and closing this perhaps with a certain buckle, let me remind you that Mr Paszyk asked about the health pact, about 6,8% GDP, a 30% increase in salary, about what was signed by Prof. Łukasz Szumowski. As I understand it - and so we understood the intentions of this pact - it was a pact that was supposed to be in force for the next term of office. It was a pact made and signed before the current term of the Sejm, so it seems to me that almost four years before us, so that this pact for health can be implemented calmly. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, we need growth. Health expenditure, and I will not argue with that. I totally agree with that. I would very much like this growth to be faster than today's, guaranteed by law, 6%. But maybe we should note that in the decades of Poland's history after 1989 and after successive reforms of such a law there was no law binding on health protection with a certain level of development or welfare of the state. This law has been in operation since 2017. I think you will remember that in 2018 we took up another challenge, speeding up the path to these investments. Discussion in committee - very gladly. I think it will be fruitful if we consider together the sources of funding for this growth. As Minister of Health, I would really like to see these expenditures grow even faster than before. And happily today, looking at the last two years, that's what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Dybek is now speaking from the Legislative Initiative Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for asking. One of them was Mrs Kołodziej's question. No discussion of the Medical Profession Agreement with the Ministry concerned an increase in health expenditure. Minister! The fact is, this bill was three years old in the Seym. The fact is that the previous bill, under which there were a quarter of a million signatures, was three years in the Seym. The fact is that physiotherapists and diagnes pay for their specialization with their money, and they earn PLN 2200.2400 gross a month in one job. They work in two to function normally in Poland, that is a fact. The fact is that the bill you said was, you can say, written as a result of the protests that took place earlier was forced on the ruling side. Same as the previous bill. They forced you to bring something in. That's the way it is. And that's the fact that every single government after 1989 had to be forced to do anything. And the fact is, I'm gonna say it firmly that there are queues. What's access to the medics? And yet, this is guaranteed by the Constitution to society. You have to ask yourself, on the right, on the left: What do you have to do to make it change? I've got an offer at the end. Perhaps it should be mandatory for the law to enter into force that each Member and Member will have to benefit from the State Health Service. You'd be standing in these lines and then you'd understand. Now, finally, I can congratulate you. There's a new scientific discipline, NoZ. Do you know what it is? It's a science about relationships, because no one gets anywhere without knowing them today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u362	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare contained in print No 37 to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Seym! One committee has not yet provided a report, which is why I am declaring a break for voting, which is until 3 p.m. 7:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 36 hrs. 19 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted draft resolutions: - commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of Poles to the East from areas occupied by the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, print No 256, - on the commemoration of Mieczysław Grydzewski and his contribution to national culture on the 50th anniversary of death, print No 259. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws, - the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, - for the protection of plants against pests. The reports shall be in prints No 235, 225 and 226 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws, - with an additional annual financial contribution to pensioners and pensioners, - amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Construction law and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations, - amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws, - amending the Law amending the Law - Geological and mining law and certain other laws, - specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020. The reports shall be printed in no 232, 224, 228, 230, 229, 237, 250 and 254 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of Poles to the East from areas occupied by the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics (print No 256). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of Poles to the East from areas occupied by the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. Exactly 80 years ago began the drama of the inhabitants of the eastern Carses of the Republic of Poland occupied by the Soviets under the pact Ribbentrop - Molotov. On February 10, 1940, the export of Poles to the East began. The first deportations included military settlers, foresters, railwaymen and government officials. Together with their families, they became victims of a criminal system. The endless steppes and taigas of Irkutsk, Omsk, Nowosibir or Archangielsk circuits were to be their home for years of shipping. For many, they have also become graves. Raw nature, extreme temperatures, inhuman living conditions, starving food rations, and hard work made it possible for only the strongest to survive. By May 1941, four large-scale deportations took place. As a result, around one million Poles were sent, but also many Ukrainians, Belarusians and Jews, citizens of the Republic of Poland. Life on exile lost nearly 200,000. from among them. Many of those who survived did not get a chance to return to their homeland. Their lives were carried out in the wilderness, and their descendants still live there today. The deportations of our fellow countrymen to the East, including Sibir, were an extremely painful and tragic experience for the whole nation. The communist regime intended to exterminate political, economic and intellectual elites and break down the social structure of Poland. Despite the scale and nature of the actions taken, the spirit in our nation was not destroyed. There are no words that fully reflect the drama of our compatriots. They lived and worked with the knowledge that few of them could be given a return home. Let the memory of the shrouds be a warning to present and future generations. Let them prove what man can do. Having in mind the tragic fate and heroic attitude of hundreds of thousands of deportees, on the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of Poles to the East of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all exiles and their families. Please accept the resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of Poles to the East from areas occupied by the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of Mieczysław Grydzewski and his contribution to national culture on the 50th anniversary of death (print No 259). I ask Members to rise again. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of Mieczysław Grydzewski and his contribution to national culture on the 50th anniversary of death. In 2020 we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the death of Mieczysław Grydzewski, who died in emigration, editor, publisher, literary critic and journalist. Since 1920 Mieczysław Grydzewski has published a monthly magazine 'Skamander', around which a group of young poets, associated with the title of this magazine, have concentrated. In 1924 he began publishing 'Literary News' - one of the most important magazines of interwar Poland - which survived, in various incarnations, almost 60 years. The last pre-war issue of 'Literary News' was published on September 3, 1939. Mieczysław Grydzewski left Poland and went for an emigration from which he never returned. But they returned 'News...' under his editorials: first in Paris as 'Polish, Political and Literary News' and later in London as 'News'. For several dozen years 'The News' edited on exile by Grydzewski, then by Michał Chmielowiec and until the spring of 1981 by Stefania Kossowska, were the most important center integrating Polish emigration poets and writers. Mieczysław Grydzewski and the environment around him "The News" remains a symbol of an intranspensive attitude towards Soviet Russia and communist authorities and a firm attachment to the idea of independence of Poland. Mieczysław Grydzewski's life and work remind us of what we still forget too easily: that the creative and spiritual life of society is not based solely on individual efforts of individuals. Literature is created in the process of collective work: from editor, translator, accountant to printer. There is no literature without literary life and there is no culture without cultural institutions, which must be a basis for creators. On the 50th anniversary of the death of Mieczysław Grydzewski, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors his memory and work. Please accept the draft resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Mieczysław Grydzewski and his contribution to national culture on the 50th anniversary of death. Please, with a formal proposal from Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir. It's not a formal conclusion. It's a question. No? Okay, thank you. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on subscription fees, print No 234. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees, No 211 and No 234, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Does it work? It's not working. It's working, thank you. Thank you. 451 Members voted. 237 was for, against - 214, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. The additional committee report shall be in print No 201-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u363	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. The Commissions: Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering proposals and amendments at its meeting on 13 February 2020, ask for the rejection of two proposals for rejection of the draft law in its entirety and for the adoption of eight amendments and the rejection of nine amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u364	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 201. [[Applause]] In the additional report, the committees submit a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection... But wait a minute, I was asked to speak. I'm sorry, Madame, I don't have a report. It was. We'll proceed with the vote. It's okay. It's okay. I'm sorry. Exactly. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! No one in Poland has ever committed such a plundering of the funds of citizens. Jumping to PLN 24 billion pension savings... [[Applause]] Balcerowicz. ...which citizens have put away for many years, working hard every day... Balcerowicz. ...you're just gonna squander in 1 year. Citizens put it off to live a decent old age. And you're gonna squander it in 1 year. Let it ring in your ears. [[Applause]] In addition, you hide that those who take funds to the IKE will simply in the future have lower pensions paid with the Social Security Office. From the beginning of the work on this law, I ask the government to present a report (the bell) on this matter. But you're afraid of it. We're not gonna lay a hand on this. [[Applause]] Bravo! Balcerowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u366	Thank you, Member. Please, question, Mrs Jolanta Fedak, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u367	This law is a bad and harmful act and should not be passed. There's still time. But we've tabled amendments that make her more digestible to the insured. So I ask myself: why do you not want to accept those amendments that we have tabled that share risks between the insured and the financial institution that value a decent account to those who want to return to the Social Security Office in 2020? Why can't the Social Security Office be an intermediary between handing over declarations to open pension funds and facilitating this operation to the insured? Why is that impossible? Usually people choose the default option anyway, which is the one you're proposing, so there's nothing to be so afraid of. And why don't you finally rationalise these high and unlimited top-level management salaries (BELL RINGING) FRD? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u368	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, as Mrs Fedak said, is deeply harmful. The introduction of OFE generated 330 billion additional debt from the Social Insurance Fund. IKE means... But at least that money was still public and managed only by private institutions. At the moment, you are giving 150 billion of the remaining financial institutions in the OFE in a completely private management of financial institutions without any control. No control whatsoever. OFE - at the moment the average pension from OFE is PLN 200 per month. We have no guarantee that we will ever see these pensions from the IKE because you have not guaranteed in this law any control mechanisms over what exactly these funds will be invested in. Will they be invested in the best interests of pensioners? I can already assure you that banks and financial institutions do not act in the interests of pensioners, do not act in the interests of the stability of the state or of the pension system. They're in their own interests. And you're giving them a present. Just like OFE didn't work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u370	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would agree with the Member of the Civic Coalition that this looting is actually bold, but I would disagree with the fact that it is the largest in history. Let's remind you that a few years ago, not a coalition... Thank you. ...but the Civic Platform has robbed not 24 billion, but 150 billion. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me! I understand that there are differences with regard to where it was transferred, whether the bonds were surrendered, or simply in the form of tax it was plundered, but the truth is that citizens' private accounts were reduced, then 150 billion, now by 24 billion. So Law and Justice are a modest copycat of the Civic Platform. You should be proud of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u372	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 219 was for, 233 against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st minority application, applicants propose to give a different title to the law. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition, with a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Mr. Speaker! Don't play the spokesperson of law and justice. [[Applause]] Bravo! We? You do it, you're the forerunners. Let them defend the looting they're doing. Member, but this is not a dispute with the Member. I didn't approve... ...just a question. Mrs... This is an important discussion about how you plunder Poles' pension funds. You're the forerunners. Difference. What happened in the past was to rewrite 1 to 1 on the sub-account in the ZUS of the money deposited by the citizens. Yes, sir. Bravo! I didn't support it, my clubmates know it, but the difference is huge, because no one then reduced the savings on the OFE by rewriting them to ZUS 1 to 1. Moreover, these funds were inherited. No, they weren't. Nonsense, nonsense. The funds that are going to the Social Security Office today will no longer be inherited. That's the second basic difference. You're disinheriting... Thank you, Member. ...the citizens of pension funds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u374	There you go, Mr Kulesza. Mr President, I would like to remind you that we are in the process of asking questions about a specific amendment, so please do not succeed... But in corrigendum mode. ...from this discussion room, okay? Here you go, sir. Your question, sir. But why?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u375	Thank you, Marshal, for the opportunity to speak out of the pulpit. Tasks of the question, sir. The tasks of the rapporteur's question, because this will be a question for the Member. There is no question for the Member. You don't understand what I said. Comparing the Civic Coalition to Law and Justice is not a compliment, it's an insult from my lips, really. [[Applause]] For us, too. And as for this change of name. What's gonna change the name? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u376	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 173 was for, 233 against, with 43. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 13 draft amending act containing amendments to the Social Security Act. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 22. Amendments 2 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The consequences of their adoption will be the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 14. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 170 was for, 231 against, 45 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 59. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The consequences of its adoption will be the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 4. Question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As a result of poor management of companies of the State Treasury only in the previous year they lost 28 billion PLN. The Act forces the raising of capital for pensions in companies, even 90%, including companies of the State Treasury that are badly managed by the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Applause]] Due to this poor management Poles will lose their savings on pensions. Prime Minister Morawiecki, will you return to Poles the savings that will be lost as a result of your inefficient management so that they will not suffer hunger when they retire? [[Applause]] What's the point? And second question. You say you love Polish families. Prime Minister, why are you disinheriting children? Why are you disinheriting widows? Why do you deprive them of the wealth that families have raised in a pension fund that they could have received if it weren't for this theft, not the looting that you're doing today? Overkill, sir. You're talking about yourself. Is this concern for Polish families? Is this concern for Polish children? Is this concern for the Polish society? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u378	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, against - 232, 10 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 59 (1) (a) 6 point 10. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 256 - for, against - 186, 10 abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1a 76. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 was in favor, against - 208, 10 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose amendments to the inserted Article. 50g Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against - 209, 10 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 8 to 10 were tabled in Article. 18 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, paragraph 26g, The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 235 was for, 207 against, 10 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 34 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1c and 1d. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 9th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 208 was for, against - 235, 10 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 34d applicants propose, among others: delete paragraph. 8. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 was against -210, 12 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. The 48th National Tax Administration Act of the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 5. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 235 - for, 207 - against, 10 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 38 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 2. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 210 for, 233 against, 10 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 38 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 6 point 2. The committees are filing for rejection. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome. Let's go. Slower, slower. All right, everyone, calm down. And culture. Please, sir. Fame, in those glasses...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u379	I understand that you, Mr PiS, would like to avoid this discussion. What a question! But it is actually unprecedented because for the first time the State is withdrawing from pension promises and for the first time the State is privatising its responsibility for future pensions. No, Donald... PPE. IKE managers will take some profits in the form of commissions, while future pensioners have investment uncertainty when it comes to the funds they collect. The second thing that is related to this law is actually disinheriting Poles. If someone chooses the ZUS, then the funds that have been in the OFE so far will not be inherited. They won't be able to inherit their new contributions, either, because they're going to the account, and they're not going to go where? On an individual subaccount. And that is, ladies and gentlemen, the difference that you decide today as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question! Question!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u380	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 175 - for, 234 - against, abstained 34. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 43 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 was for, against - 209, 10 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second minority application and the same 16th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 58. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, is the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is the second, another detail. Probably at the end of the debate, at the end of the vote on this bill, Minister Bud will come out and say that you are privatising pension funds. But he won't, because you hide it all the time, that Poles won't get 100%. IKE account funds only get 85%. So if someone's got $50,000 in their account at OFE. zł, it is you who consider that you have the right to charge 15% for the transfer of money from your account to your account. That's $7.5,000. From the 50,000. The world's most expensive transfer. Even Santander was cheaper. Nobody in Poland has ever charged such handling fees for transferring funds from an account to an account. This is ordinary, ordinary looting. We promised the Poles this amendment and we are fulfilling our promise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u382	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority proposal and the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. It was 175, 238 against, 39 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. ...after every speech you make, it's worse. In the 17th amendment to the article. 67 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The committees are filing for rejection. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! It's not enough that like I just said, you're taking... It's not only that you know everything, it's still a question. ... 15% Hard wealth of Poles, money placed on the stock market, shares, corporate bonds and other tax papers or just more aggressively invested, you are actually taking the safest part of OFE's portfolio and forcing citizens to take their money to IKE to a more aggressive investment policy. Today, the requirement is that the funds in OFE should be invested in shares in 70 percent, and you want to force Poles to tighten this investment policy in the first years and increase the funds invested in shares on the stock exchange to more than 90%. Retirement money must not be so risky. What are you doing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u384	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 174 was in favor, against - 233, 46 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 75 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 171 was for, against - 233, 48 stopped. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 75 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 2. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 173 was in favor of, against - 232, 47 holding back. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 75 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 172 - for, 232 - against, 48 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. 76 applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u385	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing details here, we are making amendments to this system, but it is important to be clear that this system is not about putting away the money we have worked for retirement and then, after we retire, we use it, but about the fact that people currently working are paying pensions for current pensioners. This means that this system can only work if - only on this assumption - when the same number of children are born as before. Meanwhile, as we know, it is not. This system has a genetic error that leads us to a disaster. Now we can still cope because the double demographic increase is among the working people and they can relatively afford to pay their pensions, but in a moment this double demographic increase will retire and we will face an inevitable disaster of the pension system. The only way to get rich is immediately, radically lower taxes, eliminate bureaucracy, which is to do exactly (the bell) the opposite of what the Law and Justice Government does. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u386	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 171 - for, 233 - against, 49 stopped. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Before voting on the entire bill, we have questions. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Polish pension system needs to be changed, especially after its devastation, which you have been doing for the last four years. [[Applause]] Today, the replacement rate, which is the pension rate for my generation, my peers, is 20%. The minimum wage, and the minimum wage at the end of life, because that's what I'm talking about, is usually lower than the average wage. You condemn my generation and my successors, our successors to starvation pensions... No one's convicting you. ...even lower than those pensions that retirees receive today. You look at the pension system from only one point of view - how much for yourself, on your own electoral promises and on overeating in the ministries mismanaged by your ministers, you can train today. You don't think about it in the long run. You are the most irresponsible government who does not look long-term at the needs of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u388	Thank you. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u389	High Izbo! One of the representatives of Law and Justice said proudly: we privatize this system. You have nothing to be proud of. The privatisation of the pension system has not worked anywhere in the world. What you're doing is a huge gift to the banking sector, the financial sector, a gift at the expense of future generations. To be honest, I wonder when I look at the faces of several statesmen in the benches of Law and Justice - I look at one of them - that they raise their hand for something so harmful. Who's the stateman? Because the fact that the Prime Minister didn't realize that he had changed his job, that he no longer works at the bank and has a slightly different task than taking care of the interests of the financial sector, doesn't surprise me at all. [[Some Members are hitting the desks, applause]] Where's the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u390	Thank you. Please, the question will be asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation. First you transferred the money from OFE to ZUS and then from ZUS to OFE.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What may be most shocking in all these pseudoreforms... Ask me a question. That is the justification for the question, Madame. Don't gawk at me. I know you have a habit of doing that. What shocks the most about what you do, reform, pseudo-reform justice and pension system, that's... Question. Substantive. ...scandal lack of courage and preservation of the really worst practices of the Third Republic of Poland. Password: The fourth Polish Republic was forgotten, Morawiecki's plan went into oblivion. All you have left in this Sejm term is making some makeup to save and powder the staff casts that have been the essence of your power for the last four years. Unfortunately, this is also served by the current pseudoreform. [[Applause]] Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u392	Thank you, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Waldemar Buda. Well, a little propaganda now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, today we decide on a fundamental issue for 15 million Poles. The question is whether the funds raised on open pension funds are, as Donald Tusk said a few years ago, public funds and therefore half of them can be taken away or private and private from the very beginning. Today we decide that these are private funds of Poles. It's a lie. Ladies and gentlemen! On 27 November, these funds will be transferred to individual accounts of Poles. What does that mean? This means that you will never be able to reach for these measures again. That you're taking it. No government after us, after Law and Justice, will ever be able to take these measures. What are you gonna do with those in the ZUS? There's a record, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (2) which states that these are private funds and are not I understand that this is a problem for you. Applause Give me 15%. . Poles have the power to decide. They may also decide whether to transfer these funds to the Social Insurance Institution. This will be possible from 1 June to 1 August. It is absolutely preferable to transfer these funds to individual accounts, because they will be inherited, will earn and can be paid in full as soon as the retirement age is reached. No 15%. This is the solution that this system differs from the social security system. [[Applause]] We need to deliver on the commitment that underpins the whole reform. Poles were promised that these funds would be private funds. We're handing them over right now. And the commission? Troublemaker, 15% . Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about commissions, you're talking about fees, you don't like 15%. Come here and tell me how these measures are being taxed today. How much of this money did you take to send them to the CSO? 32% Or 18%. Thieves. Is there a difference? That's not true, that's not true. We're reducing this fee. It's going to be from a few to a dozen percent. 3%. Please don't do this. I'll be right out with a corrigendum. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the thief says, "Get the thief." 153 billion zlotys were stolen. [[Applause]] Today you say you're defending pensioners? Today you say you're defending the pension system? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] That's not true. PCK! On 27 November, these measures will become private funds of Poles. Thank you very much. Some Members are chanting: PCK! PCK! PCK!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u394	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 201, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working! Who doesn't work? Well, then I'm gonna come over in person and check it out. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Bravo! Does it work? It's working. Thank you. 451 Members voted. 232 was for, against - 219, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. Disgraceful! We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the law - Geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 169-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Infrastructure Commission today considered amendments made at second reading to the government draft law amending the law - geodetic and cartographic law. As a result of the work carried out, the Commission recommends that the High House reject the amendments: 1st, 19th, 21st, 24th, 31st, 32nd and 34th, to be voted on jointly. This concerns the classification of materials which the surveyor transmits as a result of the work carried out to the payer. This procedure is not new, it's been in operation for years. And this clause means that this material is up-to-date and accepted into a state geodetic and cartographic resource. The Commission also recommends rejecting amendments 2 and 20, which should be voted on together. The Commission recommends rejecting amendments 3 and 4 on which amendments 5 must be voted jointly, rejecting amendments 5, rejecting amendments 6, 7 and 13, which must be voted together, rejecting amendments 8 and rejecting amendments 9 and 10 and 11, rejecting amendments 12 and 25 to be voted on together, rejecting amendments 14 to 18, rejecting amendments 22 and 23 to be voted together, and rejecting amendments 26 to 35. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u396	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 169. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 30 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the law - Geodetic and cartographic law. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording to be added points 7a and 7b. Amendments 19, 21, 24, 31, 32 and 34 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2 and 20. I don't have a report, sir. You volunteered? Now you're checking in. I submit to my amendments to this bill. But, sir, in the future, please sign up early, because I do not have a report that you are asking questions. There you go. This is not the European Parliament, Polish law...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u397	The State of PiS promised deregulation, elimination of verification, but again it turns out that this is a switch to an axe, or rather an ax stick, because this clause, which is introduced here, is actually more severe for entrepreneurs than the previous verification. The problem is, first of all, that we are now taking an investor into the billing facility between the surveyor and the office, who will not be able to start work without a red stamp from the office, so the main pathology that Polish geodesia is doing, that is, that officials are unfairly competing with entrepreneurs, will become even deeper. The offer of entrepreneurs who will have to be categorized, for which the lack of stamp will hinder their investment, will be even less attractive compared to the offer of earners in the old-age civil servants. That's why I'm asking you to accept. [[♪ The bell ♪]] of this amendment team. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u398	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 19, 21, 24, 31, 32 and 34 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Ten was for, against - 438, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording to be added points 7a and 7b. Amendment 20 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u399	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We need to ask each other questions. Should the liberalisation of footnotes mean introducing new procedures and new obligations for entrepreneurs and investors? Should the State impose new obligations on businesses for the provision of various services, or should it communicate and finance them from taxes? Should the law introduce draconian increases, or should it regulate them in such a way that they correspond to costs? Geodetic and cartographic law applies to all, it applies to investors. Today we have such a situation that this amendment can cause problems in investment processes and certainly increase. You have to keep the proportions. We are making amendments that are designed to introduce such proportions and liquidate the investment process. I think that everyone who wants business to work, the economy to function and, on the other hand, the relevant registers have the right level (The Bell) will vote for these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u400	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 20 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 166 for, 239 against, with 47 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 applicants propose a different wording of the introduction into the calculation. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 35 - for, against - 284, 128 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of the introduction into the calculation and the addition of point 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 40 for, 284 against, with 127 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 4. Amendments 7 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 8. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u401	At this point, we ask you to remove the absurd restriction on reporting work for only one year ahead. We know in advance that 10% the work exceeds this deadline, so we force entrepreneurs to make false statements that they will finish their work in a year. All this to adapt the law to the computer program produced by the company, whose co-owner was the main surveyor of the country. We just cut our hand under the watch like this. I call on us not to be a bantustan in which laws are written for a specific computer program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u402	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6, 7 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 41 was for, against - 281, 128 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 12 applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 167 was for, 231 against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 12. 2b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 39 was for, against - 283, 128 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 12 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 11. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 215 was in favor, 233 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 12 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 63 was for, 257 against, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 12 applicants propose to delete the added paragraph. 8. Amendment 25 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mr. Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u403	At this point we are again proud to abolish the license, and in fact we are introducing a quasi-license which will, in its greatest simplification, make it necessary for a surveyor, in certain situations, to pay the office for his own data to use it back. I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u404	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 12 and 25 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 12 was for, against - 437, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. 12b applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 15. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u405	This amendment removes another inconvenience of checking additional criteria in the form of data consistency with existing data in the system. The criteria for this consistency have not been defined in any way, which is likely to result in numerous misunderstandings, controversy, litigation and again delay investment processes. Once again, it is suspected that this is about the consistency of data with the ePODGiK computer program, which has problems with data reception in the most common format. Therefore, it is likely that the Geodecians will have to purchase the program of your chief surveyor's former company. This way, once again, we're gonna let the lobby get paid. Please vote for my amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u406	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 44 - for, 283 - against, 125 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 12b. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 168 - for, 279 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 12b applicants shall propose a different wording to the added paragraph. 1a and 1b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 17. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 218 - for, 232 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 12b applicants shall propose a different wording to the added paragraph. 1a and 1b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u407	In this amendment, we propose to introduce a rule of silence in a situation where the authority fails to comply with the verification deadline. I know that this amendment is heartfeltly supported by the rapporteur, Anna Paluch, but the chief surveyor did not allow her to vote in favour of this amendment, but I don't think he is today. I think it will encourage you to support this amendment this time. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u408	Mrs Anna Paluch. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u409	Thank you very much, Marshal. Have you signed up for this? I've been called to answer, so I have two words to tell you what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, if the principle of silence of consent actually entered into, i.e. The obligation for the authority to accept defective material will affect the quality of the map and everyone will lose it: investors, contractors, the one who did the wrong job, and everyone else. What about the faulty government? Ultimately, this would lead to a deterioration in the quality of resources, and although a few years ago a very large amount of money was spent on the computerization of geodesic resources, the content of this resource still leaves much to be desired. We should not deepen this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. So that the Member totally misread my intentions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u410	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... [[Speak outside the microphone, laughter in the hall, applause]] Mr... Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 90 for, 232 against, holding 130. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 12b applicants propose to add paragraph. 3b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 214 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 12b applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 7a -7c. Amendment 23 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u411	This amendment introduces an institution to agree deadlines, in a situation where the surveyor himself admits that he has made a mistake and needs to make some adjustments so that he can agree with the body on the deadline for making the amendment. Such a friendly country just like that. Requesting backup. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u412	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 22 and 23 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 40 for, against - 280, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 26th amendment to the annex to the Act, the applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 27. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u413	Yeah, some of them are impersonating themselves. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the 42nd bill, which introduces an increase in fees. In this act there are sewn flowers like this. conversion of the unit of account from 1 km2 to 1 ha. That means draconian raises. The 42nd Bill. Question for the government. Is it a way of exercising authority that every fee, every tax that exists, you increase, and if you lack these taxes and fees to increase, you introduce new ones? Is this a modus operandi for this term? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u414	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 219-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to the annex to the Act, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph 2. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u415	This is a similar amendment. We eliminate such a Byzantine system, but praise is due, such a Byzantine charging system, which was based on many different factors, from 1.1 to 3.0. We replace it with a relatively high coefficient, 2.0, for all, so for a large part it will be a significant increase. That's why I'm asking you to make this raise easier. Let's set the pointer at 1.5. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u416	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 88 for, 232 against, 128 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the annex to the Act, applicants propose not to amend Table 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendment 29. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u417	At this point we change the unit of account from the previous 1 km
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u418	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 45 for, 277 against, 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose not to amend the third column of Table 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 171 - for, 276 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment to the annex to the Act, applicants propose amendments to Table 13. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u419	At this point, we're raising the coefficients again, in some cases even a dozen times, because the ratio that has been 0.02 so far is going to be 0.3, so that's a dozen times the increase. Let's have mercy on our surveyors, our entrepreneurs. Requesting backup.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u420	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 40 - for, 282 - against, 129 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 9th draft bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 163 for, 282 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the Annex to the proposed law, applicants propose amendments to Table 16a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 36. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u421	This is the last time. We're introducing a flat-rate fee here. You are proud to have a flat rate instead of some complicated rate calculation. But once again the flat rate is more than three times the minimum fee so far, because the minimum fee was 30 PLN, now we raise it to 100 PLN. I propose to the Krakow trade fair 50 PLN. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u422	Thank you, sir, for this proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 45 for, 237 against, 170 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th amendment to the Annex to the proposed law, applicants propose amendments to Table 16a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. There are questions before that. Mr Zbigniew Girzyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Moved by Mr Sosniar's concern... Sorcerer. Ha, ha, ha. Excuse me, sir. ...to deregulate the geodesic services so much and, at the same time, to know the excellent concern of Anna Paluch, who by education and at one time by profession is a dry surveyor, I would like to ask the rapporteur's question, referring to an example of history, although somewhat more connected with fiction, but showing a certain reality. Well, before the war, there was also a geodesic law. It was not as regulated as it is now and in a remote village in Kresy, Krużewniki, there was a conflict which you know perfectly well from the film, about the copper which Kargul and Pawlak had only two fingers of this between they had to decide in a well known way... Three fingers. Three, that's it, three. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...which ended with the emigration of one of them. Time. Madam, the question. Does this law help to resolve such conflicts?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u424	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u425	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no profession of more conscious ill bureaucracy than a surveyor's profession. Geodeta must be a good lawyer at the same time, he must be a specialist in the local office with familiarities, with the incredible ability to lurch in the absurdities of this bureaucracy, the absurd decisions of the officials, and thus waste at least half of his time, which he could use on his orders, precisely for this bureaucracy. I'm not talking about these ridiculous fees every time, for example. a fee for obtaining from the Office information which it must obtain which it itself has inserted into that office. And Dobromir Sosnierz has prepared, putting a lot of work into it, amendments that would change this state. We voted for your amendments, which were good. You voted against all our amendments. And you're saying that someone here is a total opposition? You are the total opposition to entrepreneurs and common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u426	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, PSL-Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u427	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday I asked from this speaker whether this change of law is really meant to serve the public, to speed up, to facilitate the procession. I didn't find out. I asked if it was written under a particular company, under a company in which until recently Mr Izdebski was the principal surveyor of the country. There was no answer. So we're sticking here, giving the Law and Justice a chance to complete what happened here, that it's actually a law written for society, for entrepreneurs, for surveyors, not for the country's main surveyor. That is why we will hold off and we will then, of course, account for you later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u428	Thank you. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u429	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Girzyński called me to answer, so I answer briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are looking at and which I encourage you to support is eliminating a lot of nonsense with which Geodecis has been tormented for the past five years. They're collecting good stuff. In 2014, the PO-PSL government introduced a very complicated system of accounting for geodetic works, bureaucraticized contacts between geodesic and cartographic services at the district level and surveyors. The Geodetes were in the heat of Gehenna. I heard from them that they were being chased by the D.A. for going into the field without reporting a job to the facility. All these outrageous things are being eliminated. And now you're bringing in new ones. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to consider that we need to balance these rules... There's no balance. ...that, for example, the fees for the provision of the resource would give the district districts and local governments the opportunity to operate geodesic-cartographic documentation centres and cooperate with the contractors on a daily basis - to maintain these centres (the bell). Thank you very much, Mrs... And that's the balance. There's no balance. Thank you, Member. This is the main thread, or the main thread... Thank you, Member. ...story of this bill. Thank you very much. And there's no balance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u430	Mr Waldemar Izdebski asked for a vote. There you go. Under his company... Member, please. There were so many questions. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u431	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you... yesterday, in all the work of the committee, I presented you with a very good bill, which is a modern law that brings things that are important at the present time, brings computerization. There were a lot of things about clauseing in this room. We introduce the possibility of computerization in this law, the possibility that surveyors can give materials in numerical form to investors, not on paper. Of course, we leave the possibility of paper clauses on paper. But above all in the times of BIM technology, which from design through investment, implementation, to use the investment uses electronic materials, we give this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill eliminates many of the things Mrs Paluch said. To this day, there are restrictive things. Today, a surveyor has to visit a documentation centre or Internet service on multiple occasions to download each material separately. Therefore, the introduction of a flat-rate fee gives him the opportunity to collect everything he needs in the course of his work. It's a kind of all inclusive, just like on vacation. He's gonna pay, and he's gonna be okay with the fees. He can use it all he wants. I ask you, as far as the next things are concerned, very positive and moving us as if to another dimension, this is the release of geodetic data, because here the opponents raise the fact that prices are changing somewhere. These prices are balanced, allowing the normal functioning of the geodesic administration in the powiats. However, from central resources, from district resources we release a lot of data. Ortophotoma, or whatever you see from the ceiling, aerial photos. It's available. Numerical model of terrain, i.e. terrain, topographic maps, data from land and buildings records, plots and buildings - each of you will be able to process, analyze, design, and use on your computer for whatever purpose. This is where the world is going today. This resource -- there's an accusation here -- there can't be any archive that everyone brings to it, whatever they want, and we're supposed to accept it. Because the administration is responsible for the quality of these data. In order to ensure that the Member and the Member, as they carry out the investment, have the security of the implementation of the investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to prolong this whole case. Let me just say that there is a record of land and buildings, which we simplify by introducing the possibility of making changes without waiting at the request of the parties, only if the office comes into possession of information that can change in material and technical mode, it will make this change. So that, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the views of Members who have been shaped by several opponents of the law who bend the current rules, e.g. reporting work for 100 years forward, 200 years forward, and as if taking over the labour market... They're against it because we're cutting back on these practices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Jadwiga Emilewicz asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, This is a very important bill. This is one of the package laws, which are intended to accelerate the real investment process in Poland. In addition, it is a deregulation law. How does it deregulate this profession? Mrs Paluch and Prof. Izdebski were talking about this. I will not refer to all these threads, although, by the way, these are very interesting threads raised by Mr Sosnierz from the formation, which by nature wants to deregulate things, and meanwhile I see in every amendment tabled that in fact protects not the investor, not those to whom the geodetic law serves, but in fact a certain professional group, so that rather interesting and inconsistent doctrine. However, since the arguments of ad personam and Prof. Izdebski were not appropriate to refer to them, I would like to say that this is also very surprising on my part that the parties which consider themselves liberal parties... First of all, we have at the head of this office a person of good repute, with clear achievements and substantive authority... Just like Banas was... ...and a representative of someone who combined intellectual activity with economic activity at the same time. I see no reason why someone who has kept such registers should not keep in a perfect way those registers that we want them to work for well and efficiently conducted investments. I therefore ask you kindly to adopt this good, modern law, which allows you to make public registers available and accelerate the investment process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Next crystal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u434	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 169, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 283 - for, 10 - against, 159 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law - Geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 198-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No. 198-A. At its 5th meeting on 13 February, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 198 to the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering these amendments today, asks the High Sejm to reject Amendment 1, accept Amendment 2 and the whole of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u436	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 198. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Railway Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete the addition of point 58. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the committee has given a positive opinion on the 2nd amendment, I withdraw the 1st amendment. Thank you, sir. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose a new wording of point 58 added. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. There is still a question before the vote. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. Please. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! For many months you have been telling Poles about the Central Communication Port, showing slides and ensuring that we reach the Central Communication Port and from Warsaw, and from Łódź by high-speed trains. That's a bitch. You referred to the Sejm a draft law in which you introduced a definition that high-speed rail services are services carried out without intermediate stops between locations located more than 200 km apart. From Warsaw to Baranów is 30 km. From Baranów to Łódź is 100 km. Then how do you want to fulfill your promises with this definition? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u438	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by Minister Bittel, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u439	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, this amendment has already been translated several times. She's still being reported. This provision concerns regulatory issues and economic issues rather than how to build high-speed rail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u440	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 215 for, 228 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill... But before that, there's another question. Mr Dariusz Joński. You're welcome, sir. Do you have a receipt?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u441	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 January, the Prime Minister presented a strategic location study, including high-speed rail corridors. Prime Minister, in the Łódź voivodeship and in Łódź railway corridors were presented, which were accepted by residents, local governments, a study was adopted, development plans already 10 years ago. To the surprise of the residents, you have introduced new railway corridors. I have a short question for you: Why do you want to start housing estates in Łódź, Constantine, in other cities without any analysis, without talking and discussing with residents? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u442	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the whole... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But you don't know it yet. Oh... We're voting! He knows everything. The government representative will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u443	Short answer. I share my concern and regret very much, Mr President, that your colleagues from the Civic Coalition have failed to implement rail investments for 10 years. Unfortunately, many of the arrangements then made had expired. No, it's not. Nothing's over. A strategic localization study is exactly why it is presented to the residents so that they can discuss it, discuss it... That's okay, because there's an important feasibility study. ...to carry out an additional stage of discussions and public consultation. So don't tell me something's been imposed here. On the contrary, it was presented to the people so that they could express themselves and that we could develop solutions that would not only be socially acceptable, but, above all, will, unlike yours, simply be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]] Right! Bravo! We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u444	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 198, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 440 - for, 1 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. With a formal proposal from Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request for a break because a break is needed so that the PiS club can change its mind and withdraw from the hideous intention to transfer PLN 2 billion to the rudeness and lie on Kurski's television. [[Applause]] 180,000. people are diagnosed with cancer each year. 100,000. He's dying of cancer, 30,000. by late diagnostics. Many people cannot go to an oncologist's doctor because there are less than 1000 oncology specialists in Poland. And you have a choice: either 2 billion for human life and health, or 2 billion for false and hypocritical. Either 2 billion for rapid diagnostics and saving lives and health, or 2 billion for taping in rudeness, lying and propaganda. It's a real choice. Life and Health or hat, false and hypocritical. [[Applause]] Bravo! False and hypocritical. Boris, to the podium. Mr. Boris for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u446	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that we have voted on this proposal, but there is a request for a break and I will put it to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break in the session, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees (Prints No 211 and 234). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee. Who's this? That's a shame. He's defending Kurski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This was the case: On 12 February in the morning, the cultural committee met, and at that moment for a few dozen minutes the majority in this committee, a little by chance, gained opposition. You yourself are by accident. I'm the rapporteur. The opposition has voted, ladies and gentlemen, and has given a positive opinion on the proposal... You should have respected that. ...to accept the scandalous... That's the report? Scandal! ...scandalized Senate request to prevent public media funding. Woman, what are you saying? Get out! That's the report? As you can see from this reaction, the opposition cannot get over the fact that public media exist... Ladies and gentlemen... ...and are not under strict control of PO, PSL and SLD. This is not a report. Marshal, shut her up. Mr... Today, the committee reconvened and changed its decision to send the rapporteur. Woman, what are you saying? Because the opposition has chosen Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus as rapporteur. How can you lie like that? This is the committee's report? I will read the position of the committee voted by the opposition. Why do you allow this? Liar! Absolute scandal. Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 10 February 2020 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The Committee on Culture and Media, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 12 February 2020, asks the High Sejm to adopt a resolution of the Senate. You lost, believe me, you're losing. That is the opinion of the opposition's position as a committee. And that's what you should say, not... Mr President, I ask you to remain calm. No, I won't be calm, Marshal. The minority in this committee, of course, voted against for a few dozen minutes. I now also inform you that the Law and Justice which has the majority in this Seym will reject this proposal as an attempt to destroy public media. He'll take the money for cancer and give it to Kursk. But it's not your job. What are you talking about, woman? Public media, Polish Television, Polish Radio should exist and serve Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u448	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Act of 9 January 2020 amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on subscription fees. The Commission proposes that this resolution be adopted. Mr Grzegorz Braun with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u449	God bless you! Good evening! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Right side, wrongly the right side of this House! [[Applause]] Bravo! You have such a special opportunity... To be decent. You've been lost three times. Now, please, as you rightly point out by your fellow Member, you have a chance, in some cases, to improve, sinners. Do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, Do not send 2 billion Polish zlotys to TV power. For the campaign. Change the name of this TV to TV power. It won't cost as much as 2 billion. Let us fight not only fraud but also hypocrisy in public life. [[Applause]] That's great!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u450	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska joined the question. You're welcome. Ooh... Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Public media are long gone in Poland. [[Applause]] In fact, PiS wants to transfer 2 billion Poles' money to its TV, where there is disinformation, manipulation and contempt. You don't want to give the money to people what they want. You don't want to transfer that money to oncology. What have you done? You need this TV because you're afraid of the truth. [[Applause]] You are afraid that Poles will see how you really are, that Poles will see how you manipulate, how you ignore their lives, their desires, and how you do business. Remember, the truth always wins. If you don't know how you manipulated it, the Poles will look into your eyes and see what you're doing. From this sin you will have to translate long, long time. I really know you're gonna vote this out, I know you're gonna take that money, but I'm counting on the president to have the courage to go to closed hospitals and explain to people why he's taking their money. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Thieves! Shame! Disgraceful! You stole money from sick people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u452	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u453	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just learned that propaganda is more important to the majority of the parliament today than those in need than those with cancer in Poland. Don't lie to me! Then leave today and at least tell the Poles if you will terminate the 2 billion subscription because 2 billion is more than the proceeds from the subscription. So tell me today if this money means you're gonna lose your subscription. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u454	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Mrs Lichocka, you are lying, you are simply lying brazenly. [[Applause]] Yes, sir! Bravo! Secondly, 2 billion PLN should not be passed on to propaganda and hat. 2 billion PLN could be transferred to 2 000 PLN. modern ambulances, for 300,000. insulin pumps... To the dog shelter. ...of 750,000. folding armchairs for parents who are lying on the ground while their children are in hospitals. Which one of you is it? [[Applause]] Tomorrow he's gonna look himself in the eye in the mirror? You spend $2 billion on propaganda, and you don't want to help people who need it? Don't you want to give $2 billion to psychiatry, which is in catastrophic condition? I could use one. What you are doing today is simply embezzling money from Poles and Poles and pure filth. [[Applause]] Bravo! Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u456	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u457	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! What is hypocrisy can be said in this way: in our governments, we have given several dozens of billions of zlotys more to health care than you have given to your governments. Suski, don't lie to me. In what mode? In what mode? But what is this... Who's a hypocrite, who's aggressive and who's acting like one, you showed up in Puck. [[Applause]] Ooh... Liar. Shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u458	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 9 January 2020 amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. [[Applause]] Take another 100 billion zlotys. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws (Prints 212 and 237). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. But only two votes, less and less.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u459	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present the report of the committee on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws, prints No 212 and 237. The Commission, after its meeting, recommends rejecting the Senate resolution rejecting the Law of 23 January 2020 amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! This decision of the Senate must be surprising. especially in the context of what we have seen in recent days. E.g. At the request of the Members of the opposition, we have discussed this week the risks associated with the coronavirus. This is an excellent example, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that it was worth adopting this law, it was worth introducing verticalisation in the health inspection. I hope that the entire hall will take this into account and vote against the Senate resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u460	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 23 January 2020 amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u461	Don't buzz. Have respect for people who at least read the laws we vote on. But who's buzzing? Ladies and gentlemen! The Confederation, as in previous readings throughout the procedure, simply advocates against centralisation for fear of murder - let's not be afraid of that word - because already local, decentralised health resorts have affected people who seek to preserve freedom of choice for medical procedures used e.g. to their newborn children. We fear that the centralized health centre will play a dual role: the one who records unwanted vaccination reactions, and the one who has to register those who claim freedom. We fear that as such a central police officer in this field (The Bell) will act to the detriment, against the freedom and health of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u462	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, if you can agree with the substantive content of this bill, unfortunately you cannot agree with the violation of the law as regards the regulation by the High Chamber, and the violation of the law is the introduction of changes after the second reading, which have changed the wording of the law in a decisive way. You decided to eliminate the State Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of Interior and Administration with one move. I don't want to discuss content. I don't want to discuss where you'll have people who have access to secret areas where you'll have people who have access to other types of documents that you just need to have. You can't agree to breaking the law. This is the judgment of the Constitutional Court (Dzwonek), which speaks of lawmaking in Poland. Therefore, the question is whether we can vote on such a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u464	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u465	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will not do any good reform in Poland if the government creates laws whose main reason is to change the system of appointment of district officials. And the mixing of Coronavirus by the head of the Health Commission to the theme of calling the head of the health care department in the county is very hypocritical. Mr. Chairman, what good is it if the governor doesn't appoint the head of the health centre and they appoint him in the voivodship? How will this affect the fight against Coronavirus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u466	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 23 January 2020 amending the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 was for, 210 against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection and some other laws. Don't lie to me! Liar! All of Poland is about to see it. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the amendment of the Law - Geological and Mining Law and some other laws (prints No 214 and 250). Is this the culture committee? Lichocka! Mrs Lichocka, how can you... Scandal! I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. Only the guilty translate. Kaczyński proud of his messengers. Scandal! Can you keep your patience for a while? Just for a second. And did you see the marshal, what Mrs. Lichocka did? I didn't see it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sit down, sir. Have a seat, sir. This is an outrage! And don't argue. There you go, Mrs Anna Paluch. Apologize! This is an example of contempt. Look what your friend's doing. Mrs. Lichocka showed her middle finger. I would very much like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present a report. I can explain. Explain what?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has examined the amendments... Liar! Disgraceful! Your Marshal, respond. In silence, you express... ...considered the Senate's resolution on the bill amending the Geological and Mining Law and is against the Senate's resolution rejecting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u468	In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Act of 23 January 2020 amending the Law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. Shame! The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! We'll proceed with the vote. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Shame! Disgraceful. The middle finger showed. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 18 hours 21 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 28 of the agenda. Disgraceful! With a proposal... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. With a formal proposal from Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome. Punishment!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u469	Mrs. Marshal! I should start by saying that something outrageous happened in this room, but, in fact, given the matter we were dealing with, that is, granting money on TVP, which makes de facto similar gestures to Poles every day, we should not be surprised at anything. [[Applause]] But I think it's right to react. It cannot be that a member of the cultural committee, who comes out on behalf of the cultural committee, treats the opposition with such obscene gestures. It can be said that he treats all cancer patients whom you refused to help with these gestures. Oh... Disgraceful! How can you not be ashamed? This requires a really firm response, because it is not a lack of culture, it is a lack of humility and it is the arrogance of power in the purest edition. That's why, Marshal, we expect your reaction. It is you, not us, who should be the one who has asked Mrs Lichocka to be punished to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union - immediately. [[Applause]] Punishment! Yes, sir! Of course, if you don't, we will. But we think we need a Marshal's response to the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We just won't tolerate such rudeness here. [[Applause]] Bravo! To the ethics committee! I heard from the ladies' boxer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u470	Thank you, sir, for this proposal. Here you go, with a formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski from the Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's not talk about whether the TVP Act has been adopted or not, because the money has been transferred. But let's talk about the importance of the High House. Here's a request for the president. It's the same. Citizens are watching and listening to us, and such behaviours as Mrs Lichocka simply do not fit in this House. [[Applause]] It's just that in the world, we should have the courage... Mrs. Lichocka should come out here and say she's sorry. Don't mention it. That's not enough. For Poles and Poles, for people who believe that there are honest politicians in this House and do not despise Poles. Mrs. Marshal! I request a formal request for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention, where we will decide what we should do next. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Financial penalties.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u472	Thank you, sir. And you're still Marshal Richard Terlecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's Tusk's fault. I agree with the opinion that the seriousness of the High House has been compromised, but I would like to ask... Ask. By Lichocka! ...or Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, candidate for President of the Republic... No. That's not the subject. You're turning the cat's tail. ...can tolerate rude returns to the President-in-Office of the Republic... [[Applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Disgraceful! ...and shouldn't the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm be in front of the House he represents, apologize for supporting the people who were rudely addressing the President of the Republic. But stop saying such a thing. Liar! The importance of the House has been violated, but the majesty of the Republic of Poland has been violated. And the vice marshal of the Sejm did. Isn't that a bigger deal? [[Applause]] She showed the Poles her middle finger! Liars!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u474	To the contrary, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u475	Thank you, Marshal. That's the opposite of it. I'm competing with Margaret Kidawa-Błońska in this election. Ha, ha, ha! But I'm not gonna let her say she's rude, she's rude, she's uncultural, and she's unworthy. [[Applause]] Bravo! It's not. I've known her for years. I want to win the election with her, folks, I want to win the election with her, I'll do anything to win the election. But I cannot agree that you would insult her so that you would say that and compare her behavior to the gestures that all of Poland had just seen. I've never seen such a gesture from your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. Think about it, a bucket of cold water for all the heads. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u476	Thank you very much. Since there was a formal request for a break, we are voting on this proposal. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 210 was for, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. Out of session! Out of session! Out of session! Oh, it'll be remembered. We continue to consider item 28 of the agenda. Please exclude Mr Lichocka. What about Lichocka? Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation, came forward before the questions were put to the vote. You're welcome. But please exclude the Member! Member, please, for the time being, I am a marshal, please don't tell me what to do, please. Please, Mr Braun, with a question. Don't tolerate rudeness. Sir, are you asking... Didn't you see what happened here? Mr President, you are resigning from the question, as I understand it, are you?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is: Is it true that the Exvice Minister of the Government of Law and Justice is an interested party in this case, to which this law applies? In this case, which is settled in these few sentences, in which some say that the adoption of this law may violate the principle of non-action backwards, while others say that a successful vote on this law may increase citizens' confidence in the state and the law. The various statements of experts in advance qualify this law if it were to move to the Constitutional Tribunal. But the Confederation is asking if your ex-minister is interested in this matter. The Confederacy is behind this... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u478	Thank you, sir. ...so that the extraction of wealth, natural resources, would serve Poles. Gregory, getting weaker. Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u479	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mr. President Kaczyński! This project passed through the Sejm instantly, so I would like to ask if you are aware that this amendment concerns copper deposits worth perhaps up to PLN 250 billion. Are you aware that this project violates the rule that the law doesn't work backwards? And that was the opinion of BAS. Are you aware that he wasn't created in the Seym, but in the Department of Congress at the Ministry of Climate? Are you aware that its beneficiary is the Canadian Copper Corporation Copper Company and may be affected by KGHM's interests? And are you aware that Mr Konrad Raczkowski, member of the National Development Council at President Duda, your Deputy Minister of Government in 2015 and 2016 has been Vice President of the Company since September 2019? That's it. And do you not think that, in view of the above facts, it would be appropriate to examine whether there has been illegal lobbying or perhaps even corruption here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u480	Thank you. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u481	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is very dangerous because it allows the law to work backwards. It's about litigation, about concessions for copper and other rare metals, which is really big money. This law has not been consulted with the institutions which are set up by law. That's what the Legislative Bureau said. He's running, he's running. Mrs. Lichocka is on the run. And here's my question. I am very surprised why you are on the side of a foreign company from Canada, and not on the side of KGHM, where you have a stake. I'm surprised. Why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u482	Thank you. Mrs Anna Paluch. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u483	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This has to be said with all responsibility: it is exactly the opposite of what comes from all the voices and your suppositions that were made here just a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 July 2014, the PO-PSL government adopted a change to the Geological and Mining Law. It contained a retroactive provision which eliminated all licence applications 3 months back from the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. from 30 September 2014. During the last term of office, we amended this law three times with prints 364, 996 and 2551. And in order to be able to end concession proceedings at all, we have to, so to speak, carry out this bill that we are proceeding on right now. Otherwise, in view of the change in the overall procedure for the examination of concessions, the concession proceedings cannot be completed at all. So it's exactly the opposite of what you're saying. Specific companies. Specific companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u484	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 23 January 2020 amending the Law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 was in favor, 209 against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the bill amending the Law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. Shame, shame! We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (Prints No 213 and 232). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u485	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Report by the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and on certain other laws. Your marshal, according to the article. The 54 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, on 10 February of this year, sent a resolution of the Senate, which rejected this law in its entirety, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. As a result of a brief discussion and in a vote, the result of which was as follows: 5 votes were in favour, 11 against, 1 abstention, the committee rejected the rejection of the Senate resolution and the committee asks the Sejm to reject this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u486	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 23 January 2020 amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. The question will be asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u487	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition, of course, supports the Senate's resolution to reject this law. A bill in which a group of Members furniture the prime minister's government. Prime Minister, maybe it's worth not re-entering and presenting your own idea to the House? Just like the slogan of a furniture network: you're the one who's gonna set it up! Because when you're drafted by the authors of this bill, it can be really different. I do not know whether you know that the most frequently repeated term in relation to this law is the division of spoils. And this division among the increasingly divided, not the United Right. This law is not a division of competence, it is a festival of incompetence, irresponsible Byzantium of power, also greed. In order to steal the Senate's money to support Polonia, new functions were invented at the Prime Minister's firm. The government's representative for equal treatment was also demoted at the Ministry of the Family. It's like inequality and exclusion are the domain of families. Prime Minister, courage! Don't avoid being held accountable (the bell) for your government and vote for the Senate's proposal. For your own good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u488	Thank you, Member. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u489	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! At the last meeting of the Sejm, Minister Dworczyk said that the government intends to increase the funding for Polonia. On the other hand, the budget amendment, which receives 100 million zlotys from the Senate for these purposes, contradicts that. Therefore, I have a question: isn't this bill aimed at making the Senate uncooperative and uncooperative? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u490	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law raises many questions, including questions about why, since you have already decided what was very sincere and brutally awarded today at the meeting of the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad, to collect funds for Polonia Senate, why, for God's sake, you did not accumulate it in one hand, in the hand of Minister Dziedziczak, but scattered many ministries and offices. It's gonna be totally inefficient and it's not gonna be a priority. This is the question of the efficiency of this government administration, which is remodeled according to the party key, not the competence key. There's a fear of what's happening now with the koravirus in China. The Americans create 11 zones at airports to isolate those who will eventually reach the sick. We have a sharp increase in the number of diseases in China. How is it that today, 10 years after the Smolensk disaster, we observe the same horror, the same series that became the cause of this catastrophe 10 years ago, the dispute between the Presidential Palace and the Prime Minister's office about who organizes the celebrations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the measure of failure of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u492	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 23 January 2020 amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against -210, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners (prints No 215 and 224). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners, print No 215. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy after considering this resolution at its meeting on 11 February this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the Senate amendments contained in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 to reject. At the same time, the committee calls for amendments No 1 and amendments No 5, 6 and 7 to be voted together, since these amendments concern the deletion from the name of the law of the words for pensioners and pensioners. Amendment 2 should be put to the vote together with Amendment 3. On the other hand, Amendment 4 and Amendment 8 must be voted together, because in this case this applies to the financing of this law. If these amendments were adopted, there would be no financing for this law. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much, High Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u494	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1, 5, 6, and 7. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Why will additional pensions not be financed by the Social Insurance Fund managed by the Social Security Office? For the Social Insurance Fund managed by the Social Security Office, this would be a few percent extra expenses, and this would be an obvious and simple task. However, the PiS decided that additional pensions and pensions would be paid by the Solidarity Fund... Created by the PIS. ...for which this means liquidation, because the amount of the payment will absorb the long-term receipts of the Solidarity Fund. Why, then, is the PiS destroying a fund to support people with disabilities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u496	Thank you. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A few months ago, Law and Justice in the election campaign promised a decent retirement life. We're working on it all the time. Promised a decent retirement life, i.e. minimum salaries, which will reach normality. When the Left submitted a minimum wage project for pensioners amounting to PLN 1600, what did you do? You threw him in the trash. When we asked you to start working on getting nearly a million pensioners to get money to pay for their apartment, rent, drugs, you said, "No, there's no way." I have a question for the Minister. When will a fair work start on a bill that will allow pensioners to live a decent life? Because today you're stealing from the disabled and every 12 months you've decided to help the pensioners. What are we stealing from? Lie! You're lying! It's unfair, unfair, and above all, it's building emotions that give the pensioner hope. It's just a pity once every 12 months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u498	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u499	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to make it clear: that we will be paying out the 13th pension from the Solidarity Fund, in no way will it cause people with disabilities to have no benefits paid. I will remind you of what has already been said many times. Today, the government's representative for the issue also spoke on this subject. Disabled persons Mr. Paweł Wdewik. When Mr. Paweł Wdewik came to our ministry, he started working with us, the first thing he looked closely at was the Solidarity Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! We are implementing all the programs we have started so far, and we are going to carry out the next ones. It is in our term of office that 10 billion more funds have just been transferred to support people with disabilities. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ooh... To cancel. Lie! Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like you to be interested in this subject. [[Game in the O.R.]] But Mrs Lichocka left. Let the president take an interest. Mr... Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: Ladies and gentlemen! I'm emphatically emphasizing... But we know it. But we know what you're saying. ...that the support of people with disabilities will be realized and implemented: care and residential centers, rest services that are so necessary. Without the president, there's no way. But it's an Emerity+... Disgraceful! Ladies and gentlemen! The "Emerity+" package, over 20 billion for our pensioners. It is our intergenerational bond that causes both the 13th pension and the valorisation to be fully implemented and our pensioners to be secured. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u500	Thank you, Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, some strange customs are beginning to reign in this House, I give you my word. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Bravo! You're addicted to these phones and smartphones, really. [[Applause]] But the president is watching. We'll proceed with the vote. Mr. President, how's the control... Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 5, 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 287 was in favor, 137 against, with a hold of 22. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. Amendments 2 and 3. The Senate is proposing editorial changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I dare say that the Minister does not know what the Solidarity Fund was meant to do. He wasn't supposed to make people with disabilities stagnate, he was supposed to make them live a decent life. I was going to say this: you are perfidiously stealing from people with disabilities from the Solidarity Fund, who were supposed to change their lives. [[Applause]] But how can we rob? The Member is lying. I am glad to say two words to Mr Kaczyński again, because Mr Kaczyński already in 2014... Mrs Kaczyński, not Mr Kaczyński. You're welcome. Mr Kaczyński, you are right. ...promise help for people with disabilities. This is the place for the question. Get out of here with your face. I ask you not to rob people with disabilities from the Solidarity Fund. What are you talking about? Remove the criterion to 500 PLN. Families at this point add to the specialized care services and to the centers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're adding a lot of money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u502	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 274 were in favour, against - 137, 29 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 14. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u503	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Stop lying. You're saying on your TVPiS that we want to take away people's pensions. You're lying. That's why you needed the 2 billion zlotys. How embarrassing are you? You're cheating old, sick retirees and renaissants. You're telling them the wrong thing. What's not true? We want to make it clear to pensioners: yes, we are in favour of thirteen, but we are in favour of the real budget, funded by the social security system, not at the expense of people with disabilities. You're not ashamed! [[Applause]] Bravo! But we're not gonna give up money for this like we have for eight years. Don't lie to me. We're shutting down the source of funding. It's in your Art Act. 17 says the 13th pension is to be financed by the Demographic Reserve Fund. We don't delete it, we leave it, and this fund is, Minister, in Chapter 6 of the Social Security Act. That's the truth, but not on your red stripes on TVPiS. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u504	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 273 was for, 141 against, 31 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this end we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Act on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws (Prints No 217 and 235). I ask Mr Jan Kanthak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u505	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, the Seym No 217. At yesterday's meeting, the committee considered all 22 amendments, which are mostly legislative and regulatory. After considering the amendments, the Commission proposes and recommends that the High House adopt all amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u506	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. I've been asking you a question. Amendments 1 to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the new wording of Article. 479. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of... Excuse me, Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question, which of course concerns the Code of Civil Procedure, is addressed to the government, but also to Marshal Terletki in the context of what he just said. Do you realize that your clubmate Jan Mosiński is probably the only person in this courtroom who has been sentenced to a final judgment for a heyt? You know that? [[Applause]] Exactly. Convicted for a hat on the Internet on Internet forums under the nickname monkey. That's you, haters. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u508	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. It's not working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 4 - for, against - 426, withdrawed 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 479 The Commission calls for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. It's falling apart, President. It's falling apart. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Don't sleep tonight, Mrs. Lichocka. The eye's blurry. Evidently eye rubbing. 444 Members voted. No one was for, 434 against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 479. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 436, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 479 The Commission calls for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 434, 9 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 5, 10 to 12 and 15. The Senate is proposing legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5, 10 to 12 and 15, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. No one was against 433, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 479 The Commission calls for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 434, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 2 The amending act containing amendments to the Act on Copyright and Related Rights of the Senate proposes to delete paragraph 2. Article 3 80. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. No one was against -433, there were 9 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 4 The amending act containing amendments to the Law on Industrial Property The Senate proposes to repeal the article. 286. Amendment 18 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 18 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 438, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Now they're playing a second movie on the Internet... rubbing their eyes. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 6 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Patent Ombudsmen. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 425, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 15 The amending act containing amendments to the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and certain other Acts of the Senate proposes to repeal the article. 14. Amendments 16 and 21 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13, 16 and 21 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 427, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. That's not the video you're showing. In the 14th amendment to the article. 16 amending law containing amendments to the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws The Senate proposes inter alia. the new wording of point (b) is replaced by the following: and in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the following paragraph is added: 3 point 2. Amendments 17 and 22 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments: 14th, 17th and 22nd, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. No one was against 432, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 19th amendment to the article. The 20th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. No one was against 431, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. The 20th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Jacek Decoration joined the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u509	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very simple question. Will the provisions proposed in this amendment improve the functioning of the courts and make the legislative process easier? Thank you. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u510	Thank you. Mr Sebastian Kaleta, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ha, ha, ha! What's in your hand? We are talking about a very important draft amending the rules relating to proceedings before Polish courts. In recent weeks we have been having a lot of discussions about the judiciary, but usually the main topic of this discussion is the shape of the National Courts Council or the Supreme Court. You didn't understand any discussion. He didn't understand any of them. However, in the last 4 years - today too - we have made very important changes that have improved Polish judiciary, but have not aroused such great emotions. These are very important changes. Thanks to the law originally proposed by the Ministry of Justice, four intellectual property courts will be established in Poland - these will be separate departments within the courts - and two appeals courts. This is a response to the demand of Polish entrepreneurs who want to solve very complex intellectual property disputes efficiently, such disputes which are the subject of very complicated processes. These changes will result in judges who are thoroughly prepared for this process in those very important from the perspective of the Polish economy. This will give them much more recognition than judges who have not dealt with such disputes before. We're gonna have to deal with judges who are intellectual property specialists. This is not, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the first such project. In recent years, we have passed laws on specialty courts for family matters. Often it was very controversial matters concerning children, where custody was tried to move abroad. These changes have made these actions much more efficient today. Work on this law is also an opportunity to remind the High House that thanks to the High House in its previous term of office, a number of changes have been adopted to improve civil and criminal procedures. Today these laws are already in force - the courts are also starting to function more effectively in this respect. Let me just remind you that when it comes to criminal cases, family cases or labour law cases, the courts have actually accelerated. These are matters that are less emotional during political discussions, but it is worth noting that Poles today also learn about them. The establishment of intellectual property courts is the next stage of the reform of the Polish judiciary, the next stage of improving procedures so that in each subsequent segment the Polish judiciary functions better. This law is part of a very broad judicial reform. I am convinced that we will talk about it again in this House. This law is also an example of the fact that an attempt to make false narratives about the fact that judicial reform is not a matter for a fair change of very thorough procedures that hinder the issuing of judgments... Such statements are false. These changes are, but as you can see, your discussion of these matters is not as interested as the discussions that are taking place about who might be the judge and who cannot be the judge. As we are determined in these matters, we are so determined, High Izbo, to consistently improve these very detailed procedures. So that both citizens who go to court in their private cases, as well as large companies who have very complicated processes, get their sentences faster and so that they can trust the courts more. That's why I thank you for that question. Of course, this law will improve the Polish judiciary and this is not the last law that will support the reform of the Polish judiciary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u512	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. And 20 amendments to the Senate. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 1 was in favor, 435 against, with a hold of 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws (Prints 218 and 228). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate's resolution on amending the Rail Transport Act and other laws. The Commission recommends voting against a single amendment on the deletion of the Article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 14. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u514	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes deleting the article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 236 - for, 211 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Construction Law and certain other laws (prints No 221 and 230). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u515	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Infrastructure Commission on 12 February considered the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Construction Law and certain other laws. The Commission recommends that the High House reject Amendment 1 concerning the rules for obtaining a derogation from technical and construction regulations, since this is properly regulated in the law adopted by the Sejm to ensure the safety of users. The Commission also recommends adopting amendments 2 and 3 which are editorial and legislative in nature. The Commission proposes to reject amendments 4, 5 and 7, which are voted on together, concerning the construction project, all the rules for drawing up it, because the Seym version of these provisions is as appropriate and consistent as possible. The Commission proposes to reject Amendment 6 on how to confirm copies of professional rights. The Commission also asks that Amendment 8 be rejected and that amendment 9 be adopted with an editorial and legislative nature. In addition, it requests that Amendment 10, which contains an additional condition for a simplified legalisation procedure, be rejected. The Committee on Infrastructure requests that Amendment 11 be adopted. This amendment concerns the exclusion of the possibility of carrying out simplified legalisation proceedings in the area of family gardens. This was already the subject of consideration at the seymous stage of the work on this law. The Commission intended to take into account the request of interested parties. This has been clarified by the Senate. The committee therefore requests amendment 11 to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u516	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 10. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Act - Construction Law. In the first amendment to Article. 9 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 237 - for, 209 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a The Senate proposes a new wording for the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 3 was in favor, against -445, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Senate proposes among others. the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Ten for, against - 439, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 34 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 2a and amendment to paragraph 2. 2b. Amendments 5 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4, 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 214 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 34 The Senate proposes a change in the added paragraph. 3d in point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 226 was in favor, 213 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 41 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 2 in the following paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 240 for, 205 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes a change in the added article. Article 48a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 1 was in favor, against -443, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. 49f The Senate proposes a new sound of the joint part. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u517	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current government is pushing the amendments to the Construction Law. I'm asking if you're sure you want to legitimize all the suffrage in the country. After all, in the absence of any rules for determining their age in this amendment, they are all 20 years old. A Pole can do it. You reward those who break the law at the expense of honest people who build by law. It's unethical and dangerous. PiS legalizes construction without design, without permission to use and until the next tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to make law, not to legalize lawlessness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u518	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. It was 233, 208 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes to add an article. 13b in the law on family gardens. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. Please. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. We changed, we changed. Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u519	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you, all of us in this Chamber, because for some time now the Parliament has been living this amendment, that we are legalizing all these civil liberties. I wanted to ask you in the context of this tragedy that happened in Bukovina in the last few days. Do those who propose this amendment know how much such a dangerous world stands, how many people are threatened by it? Do we really want to legalize them all? Are we sure that we make a decision wise, prudent and above all safe for Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u520	Thank you. Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Development, will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that Members of the opposition are reading the bill at the last moment. This is, let's remind you, a bill that has been proceded for a very long time, without a short path, with a very long legislative path. Tell me. What's he talking about? Maybe let's be clear about this so that we all know what the legalization of construction self-confidence is about. We're talking about self-wills that are 20 years old and older, and we're talking about legalizing them. These buildings will have to meet, they will have to undergo the entire process of technical acceptance of this building. No, no. Absolutely, ma'am. And only after the technical audit can they be legalized. What are you saying? What does that mean? That's not true. That these buildings will be subject to real control, precisely because they will be legalized if they meet all the criteria. If the criteria are not met, they cannot be considered legal. We don't have information today, we estimate, because we don't know what self-will means. The building he referred to, and the tragedy that the Member referred to, would not have happened... We don't know this building was standing. That is why, Mr President, today we are talking about legalising buildings that are 20 years old and older, after notification and after obtaining complete technical documentation of such a building. Eight people are in an inspector's office in Zakopane. That is the real purpose of this amendment. That's the real purpose of this record. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u522	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 436, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. I'd like to correct, Marshal. I'd like to correct. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation (Prints 222 and 229). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u523	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate resolution on amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. Let me remind you that this is a very important, good, well-evaluated government project, which by 2029 gives additional PLN 2200 million for the implementation of thermomodernization and renovation projects, the main beneficiaries of which are municipalities and housing communities with the participation of municipalities. The Senate has tabled one, as we believe, incorrect amendment proposing that this law should also cover companies which the municipality has not entrusted with fulfilling the tasks of meeting the housing needs of the local government community, which is why our recommendation was negative. We propose to reject the Senate amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u524	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 2 and Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (4) (a) b Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation. Your Marshal... The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u525	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! This is not only about municipal companies that have been excluded from this, but also about TBS. Probably the provision in this law concerning the municipal stock of the municipality simply did not include entirely those entities which very often in cities perform thermomodernization of not a new resource at all, just like for example. in Szczecin they repair whole quarters of buildings. That is why I would like to ask you, although there is no atmosphere to talk today, that we really allow this point to be extended to the bill and that TBS can also use money for thermomodernization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u526	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As in the case of thermomodernisation, the same is true in the case of the legalization of the construction self-confidence of Minister Emilewicz is wrong because it is possible to legalize only and only on the basis of the judgment of the valuer. Without design, without recalculating the ceiling loads, without any calculations, or the building can withstand the load. But you need an expert. Scandal! And don't tell me it's a responsible action. Except for the fact that he's legalizing himself. [[Applause]] not in accordance with the spatial planning plan. What are you saying? This causes the PiS state to act against communities in municipalities, because they define spatial planning plans as they want to develop their municipalities. What are you talking about? And you want to legalize them there. Thank you. [[Applause]] What are you talking about? About life.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u528	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Polakzek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to lower that temperature, I think, inconvenient dispute, [[Applause]] Therefore I would like to remind you that this law only indicates one of the additional sources of funding for these thermomodernization and renovation projects. I pointed out that this was a fund in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which I had previously reported in the Sejm, I spoke about these additional PLN 2200 million, while in addition those beneficiaries who were pointed out, like TBS or those other entities, can benefit from even greater resources, which are operated by regional environmental funds, and in an excellent way, to achieve these objectives together, combining the budgetary resources, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and those which have at their disposal the regional funds, in particular in the Operational Programme of the Regional Infrastructure and Environment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u530	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 223 was for, against - 212, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection (prints No 219 and 225). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u531	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, print No 219. On 10 February 2020, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Commission met at its meeting on 11 February 2020. After considering this resolution, of the 13 amendments of the Senate, it recommends that amendments 4 and 7 be adopted and that the others be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u532	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 8 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 1, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 238 was in favor, 204 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 230 was for, 202 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 and paragraph 2. 5, Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and paragraph 2. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 235 was in favor, 208 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 4 and 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 46 Amending Act containing amendments to the Seed Act. In the 4th amendment to the article. Paragraph 98. 3 The Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 4, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 1 was in favor, against -441, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the Senate amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Paragraph 98. 7 The Senate proposes that the reference in this provision be made to Article. Paragraph 98. Point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 5 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 237 was in favor, 209 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 6 to 12. The Senate reported it to the article. 47 amending law containing amendments to the Plant Protection Products Act. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 30a paragraph. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, articles. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 and the addition of paragraph 5. 5a and in paragraph 5a. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11, 13, art. 33b. 2, Article Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3). The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 6, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 237 was in favor, 208 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 33a The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. It was 8, 430 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 33a The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 239 was for, against - 206, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 75a The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 3 and amendment to paragraph 3. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting Amendment 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 235 - for, 207 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 75a The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting Amendment 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For-- 233, 203-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 75a The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 11, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 241 was for, 207 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 75b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 12 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 241 was for, 206 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. The 70th Senate Law proposes to amend the date of entry into force of certain of its provisions. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 13 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 239 - for, 204 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Protection of Plants against Pests (Prints Nos 220 and 226). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u533	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Plant Protection Act against pests, print No 220. The Committee on Agriculture at its meeting on 11 February considered the 15 amendments of the Senate and recommended that the High House adopt amendments 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9 and reject the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u534	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 9. Amendments 2 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 10 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 242 for, 203 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 16 in point 2. Amendments 6 to 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 6 to 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 44 for, against -402, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 18 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 8. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 5 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 236 - for, 210 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 58 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 3 in point 2. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 11 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 238 was for, 207 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 12th amendment to the article. 58 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 236 - for, 203 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 58 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 362 - for, 83 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 85. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 235 for, 207 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Plant Protection Act against pests. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020 (Prints No 216 and 254). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u535	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Public Finance has examined the Senate resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020. On the 8 amendments tabled by the Senate, the committee recommends the adoption of Amendment 2 and the adoption of Amendment 7. The remaining amendments are recommended by the committee to reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u536	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to amend Article. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 232 - for, 203 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes amendments to points 1 and 2 and to the joint part. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 5 - for, 429 - against, withhold 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 4. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 222 - for, 209 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 5. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 231 - for, 201 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 12. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 229 - for, 203 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 18. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes to add an article. 44a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 3 was in favor, against -435, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 45. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 was in favor, 208 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020. We return to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. After consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, I propose that the Sejm refer to the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations, contained in print No 133, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In the discussion, a request was made to set a deadline for the committee to submit its report by 14 February 2020. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to set a deadline for submitting the report by 14 February 2020 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 200 was for, 240 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Voting on the motion to reject the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers: The road safety status and the actions carried out in this respect in 2018 (prints No 76 and 124). At the 4th meeting, the Sejm heard information about the document presented by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure by Mr Rafał Weber, as well as the position of the committee presented by Mr Jerzy Polack and held a discussion. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the document presented. I will put this motion to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has accepted the document. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for a document. Mr Michael Szczerba with a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u537	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The number of pedestrians killed on Polish roads after the first 40 days of this year exceeded 100 people. That's half of all road fatalities. 60 of them died in pedestrian crossings. For 90% pedestrian accidents were the drivers' faults. Prime Minister! It's been three months since your exposé. You promised the High House that you would present a bill guaranteeing priority for pedestrians. The Civic Coalition submitted such a project in December. We're waiting on your project. How many more pedestrians passing through the pedestrian crossing to be killed in Poland to speed up work? It's about minor changes to the Road Traffic Law Act. There's this... buddy. We're waiting for this project, Prime Minister. We cannot accept the 2018 report. Then 285 people died on pedestrian crossings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u538	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers: The road safety status and the activities carried out in this area in 2018 contained in print No 76 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted 156 - in favour, 285 - against, 10 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. The Health Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, print No 253. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. In view of the opposition raised against the application of the Article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall be decided in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. It was 231, 217 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers, Special Services Coordinator - Mariusz Kaminski (prints 205 and 206). I would ask the representative of Boris Budka's applicants to state the reasons for the request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! No wonder President Jarosław Kaczyński is leaving. He's getting away. I am not surprised, because it is a great shame that today you must defend the minister who, instead of coordinating the activities of the special forces and making sure that Poles feel safe, will lead to probably the greatest collapse of these services in history. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It should be remembered when this evil began. This evil began in autumn 2015 in the Presidential Palace. President Andrzej Duda is responsible for Mariusz Kaminski coordinating Polish special forces today. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. President Andrzej Duda is responsible for Mr Mariusz Kaminski being the constitutional minister, even though the Polish court, an independent court, sentenced him in an independent trial... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. President, just a second. Stop clock. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone doesn't want to take part in this part, please step out of the room. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Hello, gentlemen of the government, this is about the vote, a little respect. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment I am speaking, so here you are, all right, Member? [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome... Mr. Sasin, you sit down or you leave. But there they go, your marshal, behind your back. Madam, you do not allow me to finish what I want to say. I interrupted the Member so he could speak in a moment. Then tell them, not us. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to stay, please take your seats... Mr. Sasin, sit down. ...and to put an end to the talks so that the Member can speak. You're welcome, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's enough, really, let's not scream. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, you've been walking around the room a lot. Is this the debate club or the Sejm? Marshal, I would like you to respect your fellow Members. With full respect, sir. Please submit your application. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, it wasn't just your colleague who showed the right gesture to the voters, but you even do the same thing to your own minister. [[Applause]] Because respect would require that, instead of empty benches, you listen to the arguments we have and support this motion. Today every decent Member should and every decent Member should vote in favour of the cancellation of a man who is responsible for the collapse of Polish services. Today, every Member responsible should and every Member responsible should be ashamed of the fact that, instead of order, security and a strong state, we have a country in which the services have allowed so many scandals that in this brief speech You can't name them all. But the symbol of your government and the minister's inadequacies will be that he allowed even the CBA to be robbed of its own money. [[Applause]] Is this the symbol and success of this minister today? It's a success. Banasi Republic. After all, it was you, Minister, and your colleagues who let you into the Supreme Chamber of Human Control, who became famous for cheating everyone: Prime Minister Morawiecki, party colleagues, servants. Unless, as some have said, it was because these services were allowed, and it was intentional. [[Applause]] Disgraceful. Disgraceful. After all, Minister, you are responsible for the fact that instead of fighting the VAT mafia, the VAT mafia landed in the Ministry of Finance and you could not prevent it. [[Applause]] Bravo! It is you, Minister Kaminski, who answers, among others. because you did not protect the Polish state from a number of scandals and Polish citizens from the issue of GetBack. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. That's your responsibility. 2.5 billion. After all, it is your services that should examine claims of property, among others. Your colleagues from the government... Minister. ...Mr. Minister... Prime Minister. ...premier, but also your colleagues from the parliamentary benches. Let me remind you that it is the CBA that should check out the statement of the one who is no longer with us today, because I think you are ashamed of what you have done with these services. Where was the CBA when one of your ministers hid the barn for $400,000.? [[Applause]] Where was the CBA when one of your ministers corrected the property statement several times? Yes, sir. Finally, where was the CBA when it comes to Mr Morawiecki's assets? [[Applause]] Where's the fortune? Prime Minister, this is not a debate about Mariusz Kaminski. This is a debate about the state you have led to under your rule. This is a debate. of fundamental honesty, which should not only be in this House, but which should be characterised by all those who perform the highest functions of state. [[Applause]] Only instead of this honesty, instead of this elementary decency, we have admission to a series of scandals that are the scandals of your government and your parliamentary majority. Prime Minister! You promised that the public would know your husband's wealth and wealth, with which you had made the distribution of property, only to conceal from the Poles what you actually had. [[Applause]] So? Hiding wealth. You're a fraud. Prime Minister! Do you tolerate Minister Kaminski in his own government because you have already verified your assets that he has made certain arrangements? And now it's gonna be impossible for you to call him out of your own government. Is that the real reason you're defending Mariusz Kaminski? [[Applause]] Is it possible that Mariusz Kaminski, as the supervising service, should also examine all the media reports that speak about the various types of contracts that the former president of the bank and the current prime minister has concluded with his employers and which may be related to the bonuses that will be paid in the future and which cannot be paid because of your functions? Oh... Why are you silent, Prime Minister? Prime Minister! This is a test for your decency. This is a test for how you treat how you should rule. You promised an effective state, you promised a country that would fight bandits, and yet you have common criminals in your own ranks. [[Applause]] Bravo! How low does it take, ladies and gentlemen, to rob containers for the poor by your party colleagues? Shame. Disgraceful! Stealing. PiS thieves. How low does it take for 3 million zlotys to be taken out by your former MP, by your former councillors? Until now, Poles have not heard the apology. And he financed your campaign. But what else is Mariusz Kaminski? An incredible desire for revenge. Today, after many months of farce and public lynching on former heads of Polish services, the court rejects an absurd indictment against one of the former heads of Polish services, stating that there is no evidence, but it is no evidence of any interrogation that you are doing. Disgraceful! And there was no word "sorry." The word "sorry" is simply foreign to you. Today, the Prime Minister of the Republic should stand here and apologize. Apologize for Banas, apologize for the VAT mafia at the Ministry of Finance. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Sorry about the PCK thing, sorry about the KNF thing. 40 million zlotys bribery. That's what the president of the KNF wanted, which you recommended. Where were the Polish servants? Where was CBA? [[Applause]] Exactly. Where? You may be staring at your cell phone, Prime Minister, but I would advise you to now see the report of the Supreme Chamber of Contro about GetBack. That's what your country failed. It was the people whom you pointed out to the institutions that were supposed to protect Polish citizens from these kinds of problems that failed, and the services of Mr Mariusz Kaminski failed double because they could not detect the scandalists in their own ranks. And today, in this place, we are debating exactly what a strong country should look like. A strong country is a country that does not intimidate its citizens, [[Applause]] which does not eavesdrop on the Pegasus system, which does not illegally allocate 25 million from the Justice Fund to the secret operational activities of Polish services, of which, I will remind you, probably from 10 million of your own people stole from this fund. This is your real face. [[Applause]] Specialists. You guys are bad guys. You are the people who failed the Poles. [[Applause]] You are the people who created an octopus entwining the Polish state. You have created a political prosecutor's office, political services, and you have led the party's vice president, and today you will defend him like independence, because you defend the impunity of your people, you defend the impunity of this treaty. [[Applause]] You're not on the side of a strong state. You're not on the side of the citizens. You create for your people so that your people can get rich, so that there is impunity, that you may be completely uncontrollable about these shameful things that I have spoken of. Finally, another element of this shame, because this debate is not only about decency but also about shame. Where were your services, Prime Minister, Minister, when you had to examine the property statement and the two towers? You've created mechanisms to guarantee your impunity. But I want to make a clear and clear declaration from this place, and I want to say it with all my power: there will be no more mistakes like that. We will create a strong country in which independent institutions will guarantee that everyone will be equal to the law... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...that there will be no presidents of developers, that there will be no people who steal from the poorest, that there will be no people who laugh and show a gesture that should never happen in this House. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking above all to those who are watching us today, from this place it is not only the resignation of Minister Mariusz Kaminski that needs to be demanded. Why? Execution? From this point on, we should demand that Prime Minister Morawiecki apologize, apologize for all these issues. Here's to your mess. He apologized for the fact that instead of a strong country, you created a republic of guys, a banasi republic. [[Applause]] Finally, from this place it should be emphasized once again that the ruins of the Polish state began in autumn 2015 in the Presidential Palace. [[Applause]] Because it was President Andrzej Duda who pardoned Mariusz Kaminski and party colleagues... Very good. He had the right. ...and freed the justice system, as he said, from this difficult case. He did it against the Polish constitution, because I will remind you that Mr Mariusz Kaminski was not legally convicted. From this point it should be emphasized that it is from the Presidential Palace that we will begin the repair of the Polish state in May. [[Applause]] Bravo! This evil, which settled there in autumn 2015, can be turned into good. Poland needs a real president, a guardian of the constitution, not a party agreement, a head of state, not a puppet. [[Applause]] Someone who can listen to Poles, not shout at them. Are you guys dreaming again? A president who will take care of the safe future of our homeland. What about the chandelier? But today I ask the High House to express a vote of distrust towards Minister Mariusz Kaminski. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u540	I now ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to present the opinion of the committee. Why not Lichocka?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Committee on Special Services on the request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of the Council of Ministers - the coordinator of the special services of Mariusz Kaminski. After considering the proposal, the Commission put it to the vote and decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal by 4 votes to two. Four from the PiS, against the others. Please don't disturb me. The Special Services Commission, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 11 February 2020, decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u542	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u543	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards Minister Mariusz Kaminski, the coordinator of special services. High Izbo! This conclusion is completely unfounded, based on insinuations, lies and untested information. [[Applause]] It is only a political opposition attack from the Civic Platform against Minister Mariusz Kaminski, one of the most honest and ideal politicians in Polish public life. Ha, ha, ha! Bravo. I know that most of us in this room, as well as the vast majority of Poles, have become accustomed to the level of total opposition. How's Lichocke? A few days ago, none other than Marshal Kidawa-Błońska... Ooh... ...not present, she said: total opposition now is not a good solution. Lichocka. On the other hand, your proposal is now the essence of the total opposition. [[Applause]] Agent Tomek. The masks are down, we see exactly what was behind Grzegorz Schetin, and now he's behind Boris Budka. Agent Tomek. Thomas Kaczmarek. This conclusion is unsubstantiated, it dominates assumptions instead of facts. You're one big guess yourself. I encourage you to seek this justification. Let's see, let's look at the justification. The applicants themselves have repeatedly indicated that they think that there may have been irregularities, that there is some possibility. Look at one sentence... Agent Tomek didn't exist. E.g. such: it appears that the above obligation is likely not to have been fulfilled. You see, if you think of anything from the Civic Platform... Bravo! For God's sake, first check, verify, and do not compromise yourself by submitting requests for the withdrawal of ministers. [[Applause]] Bravo. Hypothesis, hypotheses. High Izbo! Let's take a look at the facts about the work of the Secret Service. Between 2016 and 2019 CBA detected damage to the State Treasury for the sum of more than PLN 10 billion. Over 1 billion zlotys of property benefits awarded and promised have been disclosed. The CBA has secured over PLN 900 million in recent years. The CBA also thwarted actions which would result in a loss to the State Treasury of almost PLN 1.5 billion. It's all conjecture. Internal Security has revealed attempts at tax fraud amounting to PLN 3 billion. This has to stop. ABW has detained many suspects of terrorist and extremist activities. What do you mean, how much? How many of these people? There have been six convictions in terrorism cases. 14 aliens representing a terrorist threat were expelled, 48 of whom were banned from entering Poland. Five Russian diplomats and 28 foreigners threatening Poland were expelled from Poland. Five people were arrested on suspicion of espionage. In several cases, the ABW collected key evidence for investigations conducted in partner countries. In addition, we can identify many procedures where we can talk about our special services, Polish special services as a reliable partner for our allies. Between 2016 and 2020 more than 4 000 were charged. suspects. Glory be to the minister. Glory. The Special Forces have been operating since the end of 2015 without looking at political connotations. Everyone is equal to the law and will remain equal to the law. [[Applause]] Oh. Ha, ha, ha! I don't believe it. I don't believe it. High Izbo! Influential managers, mayors, councillors, lawyers, businessmen were detained. It's just that the services today account for those who, in the days of the Civic Platform, were even worried about checking out. Let's remind you, for example. a reprivatization scandal which in times of government the PO did not want to see any of the special forces. Those were your standards, and today the special forces are chasing down those who break the law. Only in recent days did the CBA break down a criminal group that transferred 8600 million PLN from Poland. The criminal activity was carried out using 26 companies. So a complex structure was created, which we managed to identify and effectively break down. I would like to say, High Izbo, that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice (The Bell) will vote against the motion to express a vote of distrust to Minister Mariusz Kaminski. We have confidence in the Minister and we will vote against. [[Applause]] The hand washes. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u544	Thank you, sir. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Now on behalf of the Civic Coalition, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, these successes were so beautifully spoken by my previous speaker, but it was your Marian Banas who said that there is no coherent, comprehensive system of disclosure and protection of property derived from crime that ensures the smooth recovery of this property. That's your Banas talking. [[Applause]] It was your Banas who talked about the lack of coordination of surveillance, the actions concerning the recovery of property. And these are your servants. That's how they work. Unfortunately, this is one big embarrassment. They're listening. They're functioning. That's why you canceled Pogonowski because he was so great, I get it. Yes? Because he was successful. And this is... [[The Member is weakening in the courtroom.]] Doctor, doctor!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u546	I'm calling a five-minute break. Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, take five, will you? [[Speech outside the microphone]] Excuse me, but this is your colleague's wish. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 07 h 23 min 17]] High Izbo! After this unpleasant event for all of us, I resume the session. Mr Marcin Kierwiński on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome, sir. Maybe we should cancel.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, it seems that it would be a better idea to postpone today's session, [[Applause]] But it's your Marshal's decision. Ladies and gentlemen! For 5 years, Minister Mariusz Kaminski has been destroying Polish special services, for 5 years Minister Kaminski has done everything to ensure that Polish special services do not work in the interests of the Polish state, but only in the interests of politicians from PiS. [[Applause]] Polish special forces managed by Mr Mariusz Kaminski take care of one thing, to ensure total impunity for PiS politicians. We should require professionalism from Polish special services first of all. But are there professional special forces who couldn't pick up on GetBack's issues? Are the professional Polish special services which during the KNF scandal were not able to do a search in the room of the head of KNF suspected of accepting or potentially accepting the biggest bribe in the history of Poland? [[Applause]] Are there special services that allow their operating fund to die? Are these people gonna be able to find, catch, uh, foreign Secret Service agents? You led Minister Mariusz Kaminski to this state of Polish special services. [[Applause]] Bravo! For 5 years, Minister Mariusz Kaminski has consistently thrown out experienced agents. It consistently destroys Polish counterintelligence. He is consistently implementing a plan that can only be enjoyed by enemies outside our borders. After all, the fact is that Polish counterintelligence was completely excluded by wrong decisions, such as the liquidation of the ABW delegate. These are facts, Minister. You brought this on. Indeed, these events, this all began in 2015, as Mr Budka said. Because then the element of criminalisation was allowed to appear in Polish special services. He's the one who showed up. [[Applause]] Yes, sir! Polish special services are headed by people who have been convicted by the Polish justice system. And nothing's gonna change that. [[Applause]] Yes, sir! And that's why they're taking revenge in court. Today, people who coordinate Polish special services do everything they can to ensure impunity to ensure impunity for their colleagues. Today, people running Polish special services only care about the interests of their colleagues. That is why this proposal, so well documented, so well prepared, is absolutely justified. Today, ladies and gentlemen, each of you in your conscience will decide whether to defend the minister who led to total paralysis of Polish special services? Do you defend the minister who led the CBA to lose its own money, that in the CBA (The Bell) their own money is lost? It was Minister Kaminski who allowed Polish special forces to be completely defenceless. Defendless against criminals, but completely submissive to the PiS. [[Applause]] The security of citizens is at stake. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u548	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! How often and how many times are we going to sit at night to hide the filth of PiS, and how many people need to pass out so that we have to debate about 12 a.m. Special Forces at night?! [[Applause]] That's rude. That's a piece of shit you're saying. Oh... What do the Polish service look like today? Lefty. Manipulation, innuendo, media leaks and political investigations. Violating powers, extorting testimony, forging documents, accusing and harassing innocents. These are the services of the Law and Justice days! Back then, in 2006, you did the same thing. Today, you've turned Special Forces into a private political police who's harassing your political opponents and protecting their own. You turned the CBA into a central office to fight political opponents, and the special forces became special care services for party colleagues. [[Applause]] What the PiS did in the Secret Service is a classic definition of the Mafia system. The Secret Service has been deprived of any control or supervision, and it is worth reminding you in particular, Prime Minister, that the Secret Service does not mean the services above the law! Today, secret services instead of effectively catching the most dangerous criminals, working out scandals, learning about scandals from the media themselves. Banasie's affair? Media. The KNF scandal? Media. Polish National Foundation? [[Applause]] Media. Two silver towers? Media again. And a cherry on the cake: CBA and taking out a dozen million zlotys. Media again. Besides, this case deserves a separate mention. It turns out that the most powerful service in Poland was robbed by Mrs Kasia - a cashier, who used a plastic bag for years to raise money from CBA. This is what your country looks like. [[Applause]] To this day, the PiS services have not detected a single incident involving politicians and activists in the PiS. It's either a mere faction and total indolence, or a conscious omission. In both cases, the chief of chiefs is responsible, i.e. you, Minister. So I ask, Minister Kaminski: Are you a mess, or are you consciously protecting your party colleagues? [[Applause]] But if you want, you can prove something, you can show that you can fabricate evidence. This was the case with the first couple, the Kwasniewskis. This case deserves special treatment because it was outrageous and reprehensible. Here, as in the lens, you can see where your missions are focused, pathology in the services led by Mr. Kaminski. It's been a long time since 2006, and a lot has changed, but one thing hasn't changed, one name: Mariusz Kaminski, [[Applause]] Head of CBA, Minister of Service Coordinator, Minister for the Interior. Minister Kaminski is the common denominator of all scandals under the PiS government and has already suffered consequences once before. You were convicted of exceeding your authority, although you were lucky enough to have been helped by the friendly President Andrzej Duda, who pardoned you and your deputies in an extraordinary manner. But let me remind you that pardon is merely a waiver of punishment. It doesn't change the fact that you're guilty. What's dragging off is not gonna get away. We on the left believe in the inevitability of punishment. [[Applause]] The Left will do anything to make you responsible for every case you've ever had your fingers in. We'll account you for every penny, every unauthorized decision, every investigation. These are the handcuffs you wanted to use against the Kwasniewskis. [[Applause]] They will sooner or later come to the hands of those who have broken the law in this and in other matters. Then you'll see what true law and true justice mean. The day of judgment will come. I promise you, Mr. Left. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u550	How can you not be ashamed, sir? Hard, hard. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party. He'll probably have Spanish shoes or stocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to refer to the proposal, but more to the philosophy of the state. It's not about the resignation of one minister or another today. In fact, in order to change the function of the state to strengthen the security of our citizens, our fellow countrymen, in order to actually guarantee the essential elements of security, a complete change in the philosophy of the state is needed. This atmosphere, the suffocating atmosphere of authoritarian rule... Authoritarian governments must be dismissed. [[Applause]] This isn't about one man. It's all about the philosophy of suspicion, the search for hooks. There must be several elements in the authoritarian state. There must be a narrow group that decides, a parliament that blindly accepts, subordinate to leaders and must be political police. This political police today is located in different places just to observe, to search for hooks, to play it internally, in the camp, and externally. These are authoritarian governments. They come true today in a pure form. These governments must be dismissed as soon as possible. Because of the election. And what is crucial in this constant situation? What is the Pegasus case - because unfortunately from the outside we learn that everyone in Poland can be monitored by the state-of-the-art system - that is not something to ask, because it is a state secret. If a few million out of an operating fund dies in an advert, that's not something you can ask, because it's a state secret and it's about state security. When the former head of the CBA Delegation is detained in Warsaw, that is not something you can ask, because it is a state secret. But if you fight in the family - with your icon until recently, Agent Tomek, you can reveal all the conversations, even the ones in the bathroom. And then there's no problem. Yes, sir. Then everything is clear and transparent. So what kind of country is this? Where's his safety? Who guarantees security? It's supposed to be strong, tight, ready for every challenge. And you're mostly strong in the mouth, tight on the manger and ready to run as soon as problems come. [[Applause]] Bravo! That's what happens again. Unfortunately, this story repeats itself. How do we change this country? There's no civilian control today, and there's no social control over the special forces. There's not even parliamentary control over the special forces. Of course. You didn't let all the clubs in that term, you didn't let all the clubs and circles in that term. I'm asking for it because in that term, we lost it. Today it loses the smallest group, or Confederation. But they've got over a million votes, and they should also participate in the control of the special forces. You didn't let anybody in to the committee bureau. There are only representatives of the ruling parties, there is no rotational leadership. So how do you talk about control, work, willingness to share responsibility? More Poles voted for the entire opposition than they voted for you. And these citizens don't have the right to have their representatives in elementary control? There are no results from the fight against corruption. And there's evidence of that in the form of international surveys, international research. In an analysis that describes the fight against corruption, we fell to 41 from 35th place. We are in this ranking together on one level with Cape Verde, with Cyprus, and Qatar is ahead of us. These are the effects of recent years of the fight against corruption? These are the giant successes? And this isn't really about -- let me say it again -- one man, one minister or even the whole government. This is about the pathological philosophy of a state that is not in the hands of citizens, there is no supervision of special services today. Countries including the effect will be brought to helplessness, weakened. And as a result of the absence of a national community, this can always lead to the collapse of the state, the breakdown of the nation and the disaster. This is the only disaster for all citizens, not just the rulers. Poland must be protected from such a disaster. The unjust, authoritarian rule of the PiS must be dismissed. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u552	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. All three of them split up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marius! I believed in you, I was counting on you. I supported you not even because I liked you, just because the president has an authentic right of amnesty, nothing limitless, not even a constitution. I was hoping that on the basis of the president you would clean up this mess, which is Polish political life. Mr. Mariusz, we're not joining Mr. Budki's demagogy or Mr. Gawkowski's demagogy. I'm just deeply disappointed in your actions. I'm sorry, Mr. Mariusz. [[Applause]] But you have arguments, normally. Six different positions of one Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u554	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this tone, in which despite the profound ideological differences that exist between us, not only because of the PiS, but because of the personalities of Mr.Kamiński... I will add this point that the last months of police work are also positive signals from this service. Yes, I must admit there are positive signals. So maybe it was a fundamental mistake to fill the minister as a special service coordinator, and maybe it had to be made head of the MSWiA from the start, and not to try to figure it out. Maybe it'd be better if it worked out better. On the other hand, when it comes to the special forces, the coordination of the special forces in the state, to be honest, I am not concerned about what Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish - supposed authoritarianism - is not your strength, I am concerned about your weakness as the minister of the special services coordinator. What worries me is that the servants fight among themselves, that there are leaks, that there are thousands of vacancies, among others. in the ABW that the ABW delegations are being wound up, to several on a national scale, from 16 voivodships. What worries me is that, as I find out, there are more Russian intelligence residents in Warsaw than watching these residents of our special forces officers. That's the reality. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. This is the reality of the weak state. This is the reality of the state that... Minister Wąsik writes today that there is a lot of common hard evidence that Alcop President Kwasniewski actually had this villa, whether he owns this villa, actually did commit some kind of property cover-up or other corruption. Well, for God's sake, those handcuffs that Mr. Gawkowski presented, I was really hoping we'd see those Commies, post-commies, those handcuffs. And a lot of Poles were counting on it. [[Applause]] And where is all this? But they already have handcuffs. You guys are just incompetent. And that's the problem. There are in Europarlament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u556	Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! God bless you! Yeah, yeah, we listen to it and say, "Who says that? Look who's talking. Winnicki. We also sigh, travesty the classic: authoritarianism, a beautiful idea, but unfortunately it is far from being realized in these systemic realities. [[Applause]] You're right, touching your shoulders... God bless you! ... laughing at these Tromtadratic accusations, because you know best that Minister Kaminski is in fact a guardian and chief conservator of this key principle of the political Republic of the Third and Half, of this post-PRL, and this principle is to quote another classic: we do not touch yours, you do not touch ours. You're digging no higher. Ankles, and that's what we resent about the Minister. The Minister remains far unbelievable for various reasons, also for this reason the various floors of his, say, youthful formation, ideological columners, from our point of view. This formation of Żolibor Socialists is always more afraid of the Polish national patriot than it is ready to protect Poland from the temptations of the older and wiser. And they parade, Minister, in addition to those of Mr Winnicki's chairman mentioned residents, agents, and uniformed representatives of services and troops, among others. a country located in Palestine. We demand that Poland be sovereign and that Polish services (The Bell) be the only host here. They're not, which is why we're gonna vote for you not to be the minister coordinator. [[Applause]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u558	Minister Mariusz Kaminski will now speak. You're welcome, Home Secretary, Service Coordinator. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I accept the motion for a vote of distrust towards me as a special service coordinator with complete peace of mind. I have been in office for 4 years, and for more than six months I have also been Minister of Home Affairs. Eight. I am a member of the government responsible for the security of the Polish state and its citizens. My duties are entrusted to me, always bearing in mind that the duties I carry out concern all citizens regardless of their political views. What about Banana? What was it like with Banas? From this point of view, it is important to me whether Poles feel that the country in which they live is safe. For 30 years, professional public opinion polls have been conducted in this area. Last year's figures are as follows: 89% Poles believe that Poland is a safe country, [[Applause]] 98% of Poles believe that the area where they live is safe. This high sense of security of our country's citizens is a reason for satisfaction for all officers of the Polish state who carry out this task on a daily basis. This is the right point of reference in the debate in Parliament on a vote of distrust for a member of the government responsible for security matters. [[Applause]] However, the opposition's proposal in its entirety was based on unreliable, repeatedly demented media publications. As coordinator of the Special Services under the laws in force on behalf of the Prime Minister, I exercise civilian oversight of the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office. In addition, I am responsible for proper coordination between these services and special services under the Ministry of National Defence. In connection with today's debate, allow me to share with the High Chamber information on the actual work of the services for the Polish State. In view of the confidential nature of the service's activities and the legal constraints in force on these matters, I will speak in a manner that does not affect the interests of state security. In Kwasniewski's case, everything for the newspapers... I'll start with matters relating to the coordination of civil and military services. I consider the service's activities related to the protection of American counter-intelligence bases in Poland to be the most important task in this area. For a number of months now, I have been operating a team for counter-intelligence protection of allies stationed in Poland. This team consists of representatives of all special forces, both civilian and military. This team identifies, analyzes and neutralizes all threats arising from the activity of enemy intelligence services in the context of the presence of American troops in our country. These tasks shall be carried out in close consultation with the special services of the United States. As part of my duties, I'm overseeing the Intelligence Agency. This service has made tremendous progress in recent years. Today it is a modern, extremely professional and offensive instrument of the Polish state. AW officers carry out tasks in the most important geopolitical places in the world. Some of these tasks are carried out together with the best special services of allies, and our officers often play key roles in them. AW shall perform the tasks assigned directly by the President, Prime Minister and Special Forces Coordinator. The effects of the agency's work know the most important people in the country and can effectively discount them politically in international relations. During my role as Special Services Coordinator, a dozen or so intelligence officers have received the highest national decorations from the President in recognition of the merits of sometimes life-threatening activities. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm gonna move on to my oversight of the Homeland Security Agency. Due to the statutory tasks that this service has and the extent of the risks posed by the present reality, I have identified several key priorities with the leadership of the ABW. First of all, to prevent the real threat of terrorist attacks in our country. I will remind you that Europe has recently been flooded with extremely cruel acts of terror organized by the jihadists of the Islamic State. This wave could have reached Poland. It was in our country that great international events were taking place at that time, which could be an extremely attractive target for terrorists. I am thinking, above all, of the NATO Summit in Warsaw and of the World Youth Day. The outstanding security of these events was to a large extent the participation of the ABW. This service led to the arrest and conviction by Polish courts of six persons involved in terrorist activities. One of them was particularly dangerous. He was a Moroccan citizen of Mourad T. sentenced by the Polish court to 3 years and 8 months imprisonment. He remained in direct organisational contact with a group that carried out a terrorist attack on a disco in Paris, resulting in several dozen deaths. Another effective instrument to protect our country from terrorism is the identification by the ABW of foreigners with radical Islamist views and the rapid expulsion of them from Poland. In recent years, the ABW has taken a number of decisive steps in this area. These actions will continue. Another priority pursued by the ABW is to counter spy activities in our country. As part of counter-espionage activities, the ABW has detained five spies who have been accused of intelligence activities for Russia and China. In addition, six Russian embassy workers were expelled who were under the cover of diplomatic activity engaged in espionage activities. 28 citizens of the Russian Federation were expelled from Poland as part of the fight against the hybrid war that Russia against our country. These actions will be carried out with full determination. At this point, I would like to express my special thanks to Prof. Piotr Pogonowski, who completed his four-year mission to lead the ABW. He performed this function with great courage and real success. [[Applause]] Another important direction of the ABW's activities is to combat extremely radical groups referring in their actions to totalitarian ideologies. The functioning of neo-Nazi groups is particularly dangerous. Not because they are socially rooted, or because they have any significance in political life, because they are not. These are marginal and socially isolated groups. However, in a country so badly tormented by Nazi occupation, there will be no indulgence for Nazism. [[Applause]] Bravo! We saw it, we saw it. The ABW showed its effectiveness in this respect during the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Members of such groups were prevented from disturbing the Independence March and organising their concerts and pseudo-scientific conferences. [[Applause]] Bravo! Yes, sir. These groups are also monitored as to whether their activities can be inspired by foreign special services. The government's extremely important task is to combat widespread economic crime, in particular the breakdown of the VAT mafia, the reprivatization mafia and groups dealing with money laundering and corruption. You created this mob yourself. No kidding. The effective implementation of these tasks depends on the possibilities of economic and civilization development of our country. The fight against organised crime is a domain of the Central Anti-corruption Office, but it is also a significant part of the ABW. The protection of the economic interests of the State is also a statutory task of this service. As the service did with the government's tasks, let them show the numbers. Between 2016 and 2019, CBA officials revealed losses, which amounted to around PLN 9 billion in total, stopped 3 000. the persons to whom the allegations were submitted secured the assets of suspects estimated at PLN 1 billion. This means a 10-fold increase in effectiveness compared to the times of the Civic Platform governments. [[Applause]] Bravo! Facts. During the same period, between 2016 and 2019 the ABW officials disclosed losses, which amounted to PLN 3 billion in total. Handcuffs, wise guy. They secured the assets of suspects estimated at PLN 260 million. CBA, I think. They've arrested 1,500 people who've been charged. You guys are completely incompetent. This means that in the last four years, the Secret Service has revealed crimes... And effective. ...the subject of which was the total amount of PLN 12 billion. The president says to shut me up. Mr. Nitras, take it easy. Minister of Interior and Administration, Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski: In connection with these crimes, 4,500 were arrested. persons to whom assets worth PLN 1260 million have been secured. You screwed up, Mr. Kaczynski, about these services. Mr. Nitras, I'm warning you. Minister of Interior and Administration, Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski: There is no doubt that the work of the Secret Service has led to the fact that a few thousand criminals who have spent years... Disgraceful! ...they've raided the state's budget for billions of zlotys, they've been eliminated from criminal activity. [[Applause]] Bravo! In my speech, I am trying to show the High House what the coordinator of special services really does, what are the real priorities and actions of Polish special services. The authors of the proposal, which is being processed today, focus on the Central Anti-Corruption Office in order to present this service as an instrument to combat the political opposition. The CBA is particularly vulnerable to political attacks by environments that have never been interested in fighting corruption... [[Applause]] Exactly. ...who shamelessly benefit from the political help of those involved in corruption. Corruption is always about people of power, people of influence: politicians, officials, managers. Banas, KNF, NBP. KNF. PCK. These people, when their corrupt activities are disclosed by the CBA, almost always use the same method of defence: defence by attack, defence by extreme politicisation of the case. What about that envelope on Novgorodska? Minister? If the briber is from the opposition, then of course we are dealing with the brutal action of the political police against the opponents of power. Yes, sir. What about KNF? If the briber is from the ruling camp, we're dealing with a brutal bulldog fight under the rug, an amoral fractal struggle testifying to the collapse of the state. [[Applause]] Exactly. Suggesting that the CBA, fighting corruption, sees only one side of the political scene, is simply a lie. [[Mr Robert Kropiwnicki enters the O.R.]] Bravo! Bravo, Robert! Among those who have heard the charges as a result of this service, there are also parliamentarians who are associated with both the opposition and the ruling camp. There is Senator Stanisław G. and Senator Stanisław K., Mr Stefan N. and Mr Mariusz Antoni K. And there should be Mariusz K. The same rules apply to the authorities of companies of the State Treasury, local government and government officials. Bravo, Mariusz, that's the point. As a special service coordinator and former head of the CBA, I always have the same message for the officers of this service: the thief is a thief, and what party card he wears by the way doesn't matter. Bravo! And that's what we're different from you. Kaczyński's envelope... I have this political comfort that I represent a group of Law and Justice which respects this principle. Sure. I don't believe it. If there is a person involved in corruption within our political environment, it is immediately eliminated from public life. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! And these are facts, not declarations. Unlike the behaviour of our political opponents in such situations who apply Neuman's doctrine: If you are on the Platform, we will defend you like independence. [[Applause]] But no one believes that, Minister, you ridicule this office. And today these people, from this group, are making accusations against me. I'm going to refer to these charges now. Requesting the authors to publicly provide information about what equipment, software or system they use in Polish special services, using operational control, is absurd. It's crazy. Yes, sir. It's illegal. As a coordinator of special services, I am subject to the prohibition of providing information on detailed forms and rules of conduct for operational and exploratory activities and on measures and methods applied in connection with their implementation. They want a diversion. The current legal situation should be well known to applicants as parliamentarians. On the other hand, the insinuations of the opposition to make citizens believe that they are constantly and massively under surveillance are a lie. I stress: no law-abiding citizen has to fear anything. The operational control applied by the Polish services shall be carried out only with the consent of the Attorney General and the Court. Ha, ha, you have authority. And precise data on the quantities of persons subject to this check is published each year by the Minister of Justice. Why wasn't Adamowicz arrested? I will now refer to the CBA operational fund. Operational activities of special services are financed from such funds. The expenditure of the Fund shall be subject to the procedures laid down in the top secret orders of the Heads of Service. In recent years, we have had a number of appalling cases of breaches of the procedures in force in this area and fraud of funds from the Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] I would very much ask the marshal to continue. You're welcome, Minister. Minister of Interior and Administration, Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski: I want to move on to the accusations that you put in the motion, and to all the charges specifically. But your time is up. Do you want to hear the answers to the charges you're making? Art. Article 179 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a. It can be extended. The Marshal of the Sejm extended on this basis. [[Applause]] Minister of Interior and Administration, Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski: That's exactly what I'm responding to. In recent years, we have had several appalling cases of breaches of the procedures and fraud of operational funds in this area. The first of these cases occurred in 2011 at the Central Anti-corruption Office. The then director of the Warsaw delegation, CBA Robert G. embezzled funds from the operational fund of the service. Scandal. Despite the discovery of this case by internal affairs officers, the then head of the CBA did not notify the prosecution, and the embezzler retired him by paying him 100,000. zł check-in. What do you say? Scandal. Scandal. He's lying. The prosecution was only notified of the fraud case after four years. There's an indictment in this case today in court. In addition, the former head of CBA Paweł W. Embarrassing. Another case concerns the embezzlement of the operational fund and took place in 2012 at the Intelligence Agency. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're Mariusz K. The embezzlement was committed by the cashier of Andrzej M. It was loud at the time so-called. Carrington's scandal. Mariusz K. The cashier was sentenced to three years in prison, but the embezzled money was never recovered. The head of the agency was General Maciej Hunia at the time, and the coordinator of the special forces was Jacek Cichocki. Don't lie to me. Despite the publicity of the matter in the mass media, no one demanded their resignation or demanded a public debate on the subject in the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Disgraceful! The latest issue of embezzlement concerns the results of the CBA operational fund control... The PCK is the latest. ... ordered by the Head of this Service at the end of December 2019. Was the commercials organic or not? The fund's cashier was apprehended as a result of a deficiency found in the fund's cashier. It's like a geesie. She has been employed in this position continuously since 2011. She was temporarily arrested and disciplinedly fired. The director of the finance office and the head of the finance department were also dismissed because of the lack of proper supervision. Where's the money? The CBA took immediate action to secure the funds lost. As you can see, no matter how restrictive... ...have been sunk. ...there are procedures in this area, sometimes a man fails. These are worse situations. However, it is important to maintain the service and its chief. It's a quick reaction, drawing consequences on the perpetrator, immediately notifying the prosecution of the crime and getting the money back. In the case of the Marshal of Senator Tomasz Grodzki, the CBA performs the tasks commissioned by the prosecutor's office. Shame. The announcement, which so upsets Members of the opposition, is a reminder of the content of the article. 229 § 6 of the Criminal Code on the Non-Criminality of Persons Who Unveil their Participation in Corruption. I don't believe it. Such announcements are repeatedly posted by law enforcement agencies, and this has certainly been the case also during the times of the Civic Platform's rule. You forgot. There was only one reason why this last announcement was loud: that the case was related to a person with such a high political status. To date, however, this person should be beyond suspicion. What about Banana? So far, 21 witnesses have been questioned in the investigation... And what, are we gonna listen to sweats like this by morning? ...and 36 will be questioned in the near future. I'm just saying, at this stage, no one. It doesn't rule out guilt. Until morning, right? The testimony of witnesses shall also be thoroughly verified in terms of their reliability. How much more time does he have? Incidentally, you may feel that Marshal Grodzki does not share the lack of trust of the applicants in the services I supervise... Time's up a long time ago. ...because on 13 January this year, on his initiative, a meeting with the ABW officers... Less alcohol and... ...in which he asked these officers to investigate whether the accusations that arise about him are not a provocation of foreign special forces against the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Just your own... Unlike this case, the applicants immediately decided my guilt about the revelations revealed by former CBA officer Tomasz Kaczmark. They have no doubt that these statements are fully reliable, and they express their surprise that the prosecution has not yet applied for the waiver of my immunity. I would like to remind you that this person has repeatedly been under the threat of criminal liability and has given testimony both at the prosecutor's office and before the court. It's a provocation. Everybody knows that. This was at a time when I was no longer head of the CBA and there was no service relationship between us. Maybe we could use a breathalyzer. He is a co-author of a book describing the scenes of the so-called. Kwasniewski's villas... That's it. ...and gave many interviews during the time when he was a Member of the Polish Parliament. How dare you read that at all. In all those statements and statements... Interrogate people. ...conclusively indicated that Jolanta and Aleksander Kwasniewski owned the property in Kazimierz Dolny. After 11 years, he suddenly changed his mind about it. It happened after he heard the allegations of fraud, money laundering and participation in an organized criminal group. That's a conspiracy. What evidence do you have? Facts. His words keep him alive. In connection with the investigation conducted by the prosecutor's office and the activities of the services leading to the submission of charges to former agent Tomasz Kaczmarek informally requested support from his former superiors. It's never been supported. You chose them. In view of the situation, I have asked the Attorney General to allow the investigation to be made public. Discredited. It's awfully weak. The disclosures clearly show that the investigation was not based on the former agent's notes and that its initiation was fully justified. Time. Sure. The prosecutor's office opened proceedings for false testimony by Tomasz Kaczmark. This is a disgrace. If it's not going, it's not going. 13 years of investigation. It is completely illogical that the applicants were accused of CBA's actions in the case of former Head of KNF Mark Ch. Can you make it a little clearer? Because we can't hear anything. Listen to me. They suggest that the CBA was to act in a way that would ensure impunity. The facts in this case are clear. Marek Ch. He's been detained by the CBA. He was charged and then temporarily arrested. Journalists have exposed more scandals than you have. Currently, an indictment has been sent to the court in his case. Discredited. The one called by Andrzej Duda, right? Such weak men are to be served. The charge concerning Marian Banasia is also not justified. I have provided detailed information on the progress of the checks on this matter and its results to the Commission for Special Services. The Commission received a dozen-page audit report and a dozen-page notice to the prosecution containing detailed allegations against Marian Banasia. The control of Marian Banasia's statement of property lasted for six months, i.e. 16 April to 16 October 2019 During that time, we voted for him. The duration of the checks was based on the procedures in force in this regard. For 380 checks on claims made by CBA since the beginning of its existence, 70% of them lasted longer than six months. The main issue in such a check is the determination of the real estate situation controlled. In order to verify this, the CBA addresses several hundred financial institutions, i.e. to banks, brokerage offices and investment funds. The answers from these institutions are coming in a few months. A detailed financial analysis shall be drawn up on the basis of information on the history of the audited account and its immediate relatives. In the case of Marian Banasia, this analysis was completed on 20 September 2019. 2200 financial operations have been analysed. It's time to end this. In view of the doubts raised after the study, the President of NIK made oral and written explanations from 24 September. These explanations have been assessed as unbelievable. The question is, does this speaker understand what he's reading? The CBA sent a report to the D.A.'s office of suspected crime along with a case file of 1,160 pages. Your marshal, this is gibberish. After seven weeks. The allegations made against Marian Banasia concerned the submission of false statements of property as to the amount of the cash resources of the controlled, undisclosed sources of income of at least 250,000. PLN and undisclosed mobility worth about 70,000. zł. And the Prime Minister? These allegations do not in any way relate to sensational journalistic material published during the audit. Minister, we're here. What am I supposed to do, how am I supposed to interrogate? They are the result of the reliable work of CBA officers. In addition, I would like to stress that on 28 August 2019, i.e. On the day on which Marian Banaś was elected President of NIK, the CBA had no evidence that he could commit a crime. You've been investigating this for eight months. This is an actor audition for the theater? A circle in the eyes, true circle in the eyes. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To conclude my speech, I would like to share one more information with the High House. When in 2015 I took over supervision of Polish special forces, there were 500 SB officers in their ranks. There aren't any today. [[Applause]] In this not only symbolic way we finally broke the link between Polish special services and communist security. They're all at the Constitutional Court. With brains. Today, the primary task of Polish special services is to defend the independence of our state and the security of its citizens. I would like to thank all the officers from this place for what you do for Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Get rid of Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u560	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. To give such applause a reward for taking out money in nets. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to... Prime Minister, one more second. Ladies and gentlemen, you are making a serious motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister. But they're not serious here. I therefore ask you to behave accordingly to the request you have made. Did you hear what he was saying? The Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, has the floor. [[Applause]] You're welcome. It's a property statement. But not at this hour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a property statement. You're interested in this case. You shouldn't speak. First of all, I would like to express my great joy that Mr. Robert Kropiwnicki is here with us. I wish you strength and health. Reveal the estate. I'd like to start by congratulating you, High Izbo. Yesterday we received word that 300 CBA officers were involved in an extremely complicated operation... Another plot in Wroclaw. And piss on the wife. ...which led to the break-up of a big international gang. The gang that robbed Poles, and who had huge potential to continue robbing Poles. From the PCK. With aid for the hydrate. 26 different entities. Everything the officers have done has led in an excellent way to the discovery of pathology, to the stopping of pathology. I would like to thank the ministers and CBA officers very warmly from this point of view. [[Applause]] Now a little bit more about the context. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of you definitely remember the '90s. You know perfectly well what corruption, pathology... The cannons were bought at the time. ...which was very deep into political life, into economic life. This corruption has been very often put on the agenda. It's a slightly different era, the '90s, but it's worth remembering. At that time, few people set themselves the goal of fighting for a modern state, a state without corruption. The most modern countries in the world today are also the highest in anti-corruption rankings. Don't insult your predecessors. Who was in that environment then? Since 1993, such an environment has been formed by the Republican League, one of which was Mariusz Kamiński. [[Applause]] Such an environment was built by the later president, the then head of NIK, before the vice-president of Mr Lech Kaczyński and the president of the Agreement of the Centre of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Bravo! You know that, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to go deep into history books. He's a good kisser. Then where did Silver come from? These people were nailed with patches of stunners... Right. ...that they don't understand what the regulation of the modern economy is all about. Silver alley, Novgorod. Today we know and today even people on your side of the political scene admit that we got rid of this cancer of corruption thanks to these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Lands in Wroclaw. I recently spoke to one of the leaders of the Western countries, whom you highly value... Reveal the estate, Prime Minister. ...I talked about the differences in development between Ukraine and Poland. Poland and Ukraine were about the same level of development in 1989. Even in Ukraine there is a poor prime minister than here. Today Poland is on three or four times higher levels of development in terms of national income per capita... Thanks to the Platform. ...counting both the purchasing power of money and nominal prices. Thanks... And when I talked to this leader, it was clear to us that the main reason is that our eastern neighbour didn't get rid of this pathology. No Central Corruption Bureau was set up in time. 50,000. In an envelope. Where's the envelope? That it was that mistake that there was a far-reaching oligarchy of life. Where's the envelope? We were able to protect ourselves from this and this is a great credit, above all, also to Mr Mariusz Kaminski. [[Applause]] This is also, ladies and gentlemen, the start of two visions. The vision of the modern state, because only such a state can effectively fight corruption. With two towers and an envelope. And the visions of a state that allows criminal groups to function. I invite you to put on this first vision, a vision of law and justice. [[Applause]] To the hotel for an hour. Now I want to move on to a few detailed achievements of Minister Mariusz Kaminski. PCK. First of all, $4.5,000. criminal groups... Banana. ...broken up during the work of Minister Mariusz Kaminski. The fairy tales. He's the one we owe. At the same time, dear entrepreneurs, dear fellow countrymen, level playing field for you, level playing field for competitiveness, competitiveness rules, [[Applause]] Because without effective fight against criminal groups, we're all being robbed by them. That's what we're all gonna agree on. PCK. The activities of the CBA, the activities of the ABW have greatly contributed to reducing the influence of criminal groups in Poland. SKOK-i, SKOK-i. KNF. SKOK-i. Thank you very much to all ABW and CBA officers for their excellent achievements in this area. [[Applause]] SKOK-I Volomin. We know very well, High Izbo, that we are living in a time of restlessness, said this to Minister Mariusz Kaminski, speaking about terrorist threats in other countries, here in Europe, not far from us. It happened, you can say, beyond our borders, very close. The fact that we've been protected from terrorist attacks is due to the effective actions of intelligence services, counterintelligence services. Of course, these services work on a quieter basis, the better. They're effective. They have to work effectively. It's all in the papers. A little bit the other way around, I think, because you don't act very much, dear opposition representatives, but you're still out loud. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But our services are very professional. I can confirm several international actions with our allies... And the Lower Silesian? ...which have been appreciated by the best special forces from all over the world. The fact that our society feels safe today... Yes, Zalewska in Brussels. ...we owe the professional operation of special forces under the direction of Minister Mariusz Kaminski. [[Applause]] And if they feel safe, the Minister also mentioned it. At the place of residence 98% People, ladies and gentlemen, a record, one of Europe's absolute records. I think he believes what he's saying. I don't know if it's in the world. I suspect so, too. But I know European data. In the universe. 98% people said in the study that they feel safe in their neighborhood, in the village where they live, in the street, in the city. Because 2% He's got a neighbor from the PiS. It's a huge success across the country. In your guarded neighborhood. Almost 90% of people said they felt safe. Yes, Poland is a safe country. How much was it in the days of the Civic Platform? 66%. That's a lot lower. Ooh... This is a significant improvement in the perception of the social state of security of the Polish state within 4 years. [[Applause]] ...or Kurski? But there is an area, ladies and gentlemen, in which I owe Minister Mariusz Kaminski... You owe the declaration. ...a huge thank-you - and all the officers, CBA and ABW in particular, special forces. You owe the declaration. Prime Minister, a statement. KNF. We'll need a property statement. Well, if they're asking us today in Brussels and in other countries why we're so successful today - you've probably noticed it today, I'm going to let you, High Izbo, forgive me, for a breaker, but a breaker, which has given me a great deal of joy. Midnight is. Today, the National Bank of Poland presented data for the whole 2019 year, balance of payments data. How much did she make...? Well, for the first time in the balance of payments data, we have a surplus of 1,1%. It's the biggest surplus in the last 20 years. [[Applause]] It's all success. This is an incredible success of economic policy, the success of which is also co-authored by Minister Mariusz Kaminski. And his son. And I'll tell you why, because maybe at first glance you don't think Minister Kaminski and his services are familiar with economic activities... With success. It doesn't ring a bell. Agent Tomek. With crap. But that is not the case, because in addition to combating these criminal services, there are actions that the European Commission really defines as a huge success for the rule of law and justice. I think you believe the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, don't you? [[Applause]] Yeah, for the gold. So the European Commission states that we have reduced the VAT gap from 27% to 9 or 12. According to CASE - up to 9%, according to more conservative calculations of the Ministry of Finance - up to 12%. And the money? This is VAT from food above all. As I hear the shouts now: 'This is not true', it is interesting, my dear country, because 'This is not true' - say the Members of the European Coalition, they say this to the European Commission, because this is the data of the European Commission. But I like such contradictions so that you scream of course. We do. So, ladies and gentlemen, the great cause of this enormous success, which is at the same time the main cause of this economic micro-miracle, this little economic miracle... All success, people cheer on the streets. There's President Kaczyński. ...is that we effectively fought the VAT mafia, which roared like the wind in the times of the Civic Platform's rule. [[Applause]] Where are they sitting? It's very easy to show it on an example of data, financial data doesn't lie. What I'm trying to say is that we already have data for 2019. 2021. They confirm maintaining the level of VAT collection at a very high level. But the Prime Minister is lying. And today I want to emphasize from this place, High Izbo, that there would be no such success, wouldn't be... If it wasn't for the president. Just the president. Because, of course, the Ministry of Finance is the author of these solutions. The VAT mafia. This project SENT 1, SENT 2, SENT 3 is a JPK project, it is a STIR project, it is a split payment project that we have implemented, it is a series of IT solutions based on the foundation of big data. PCK. The latest IT solutions. This is a base, as it were, but the implementation took place in close cooperation with the services of Minister Mariusz Kaminski. How were the transfers to Caritas? 50, 60 billion PLN more - it soaks into Polish land for Polish entrepreneurs for Polish families, for Polish children, Polish Erudites thanks to our special services. [[Applause]] It's soaking. You're talking about land on your property, right? It is therefore difficult for me to understand why you are calling for the cancellation of the Minister, and I ask for a vote against the vote of distrust. To Banas. I ask for a vote of confidence for the Minister, because he is the best special forces chief Poland has had for a very long time. [[Applause]] He's got it covered. By the way, I would like to say that life is not black and white and, yes, we also owe very much to Minister Marian Banasi, head of the National Tax Administration. Ooh... However, it is. It's a superstar banana. Thank Banasi... Shame! This should be emphasized for the sake of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of no doubt to me today that the professionalization of our special services, the counterintelligence, the intelligence activity has been raised to an unprecedented level. The Minister mentioned the release from work - to which, I think, at least a part of the former Solidarity Action will also applaud - security officers. I hope I hear applause from this side too. [[Applause]] Thank you. So the fact that we've definitely managed to change the special forces, the Internal Security Agency, the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, is a great credit to the Minister. There's no ABW, you've eliminated it. You destroyed those servants. That's why I regret reading in your program, in your program, that you want to liquidate the Central Bureau of Corruption. You ruined it. So what do you want to call? Central Corruption Office? [[Touchdown, applause]] You guys are better at this, you guys have... Who's gonna be the boss? Mrs. Zalewska from the PCK. Stanisław G. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I ask you to appreciate the enormous merits of Minister Mariusz Kaminski. We are acting in a situation where Poland has recently emerged for a longer period of time into a more and better outlined modernity, better and better built sovereignty... More and more. ...supplies from the special services of foreign countries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is obvious that when the Soviet troops left Poland... Jesus. ...in 1993, they left as many agents with us. This is obviously for anyone who thinks clearly. We get rid of these post-communist deposits year after year. You got them at the club. Yeah, in the grandstand. Pretty close. The fact that today - within 4 years - Polish special forces become more and more professional... So that the money from the fund is dying. ...they're touring the best Western services, and it's a great credit to the Minister, and I wanted to thank him again for that. [[Applause]] It's a shame you weren't born in the Polish People's Republic. The hand washes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Special Services: Intelligence Agency, Counterintelligence Agency... There's no such thing. ...internal security agencies and agencies that fight corruption, Central Anti-corruption Office in particular, well deserved, served the Polish state well. Until the P.I.S. shows up. They have my full trust. Thank you very much, thank you Minister... And Banasi! And PCK! ...and I ask the High House to reject the motion for a vote of distrust against Minister Mariusz Kaminski. Thank you very much. Some Members stand up, long-term applause. Why so short? What happened? Did you run out of energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u562	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will be voting on this in a moment. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 Constitution and Article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is to accept the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the coordinator of the special services of Mariusz Kaminski, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working! Who's not working again? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's not working again? Ladies and gentlemen, are you kidding me? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I haven't finished the vote yet... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam President, I have not yet completed the vote, so you have the opportunity to vote. Does it work? It's working. It's working. There you go. Can I be polite? Yes, you can. Ha, ha, ha! The results of the vote, please. 450 Members voted. 216 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstention. In view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Special Services Coordinator, Mariusz Kaminski. Even they get up, look. They're getting up. Ha, ha, ha! Congratulations like Banasi... Thank you. I would like to ask you, in the discussion on the added item 16 of the agenda concerning the Health Committee's report on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of healthy consumer choices on this item, the Sejm will listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed to the vote... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's fatigue. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, take five. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 mins 24 hours 0 min 30]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's resume the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft government law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices (prints 210 and 253). I would like to ask Catherine Chechara to submit a report to the committee. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report on the work on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, print No 210. Following the application to the Marshal of the Sejm, the Health Commission of 12 February this year. carried out the first reading of the above. a draft law. On 13 February this year. at the meeting of the Health Committee during the examination of the abovementioned paragraph. 13 amendments and one minority proposal were submitted to the draft law. Amendments 1 to 6 were accepted by the Health Commission and amendments 7 to 13. - rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u564	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first to speak and will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u565	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, he wishes to present a position towards the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, print No 210. At today's Health Commission meeting, the Law and Justice Club tabled six amendments that were adopted. I would like to make two more amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. The first amendment concerns Article. 2 (2) in Article. 9. The second amendment concerns Article. Point 2 of Article 7 12b. 2 after point 6, replace the dot with a semicolon and add the following point 7: which are products in which milk or preparations are placed first in the list of ingredients, irrespective of their classification in the Polish classification of products and services. Also, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply to join the third reading of the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, prints 210 and 253, without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals tabled to this draft law after service to Members. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u566	Thank you, Member. I'm asking for these corrections. Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u567	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will say from my chronicle duty that even though the transcript will say that we debated February 13th, this is February 14th, at 10 p.m. 24.35. That's all you guys talked about. Under the cover of the night, the PiS introduces two new taxes. Scandal. After we worked in the Health Committee, we did not change our opinion, hence our first amendment to reject the entire bill. On the other hand, I was very surprised to hear Mrs Dziuk's speech, which, if you have noticed, has proposed to proceed to the third reading without a committee meeting. This pace of adoption by the PiS of new taxes is simply devastating. This, apparently, is the first such case, because you've already been able to introduce new fees, taxes, raise them in 48 hours. But just to make sure there's no committee meeting, that's a scandal. [[Applause]] Bravo! They remain after the committee meeting and make amendments to the basic problems. That is, there is a beautiful title to promote healthy consumer choices. But on 20 pages, even after the amendments you made in the course of your work, it's still a bill on two new taxes. One from the monkeys, or alcohol over 18% packed in small bottles, and the other from the drinks. According to European standards. And here nothing changes. There's nothing about obesity, really nothing about sugar, it's just an indicator you're taking from the Poles... PLN 3 billion. Because that's what this bill is about. Scandal. About taking 3 billion zlotys away from Poles. And nothing more. In the explanatory memorandum of this law, you admit that its effects on sugar consumption will be zero, because you plan to have a 3-billion-dollar budget revenue year after year. Don't lie to me. Please read with understanding. It means that sugar consumption will be the same. This bill cannot be accepted. It is highly lobbyist. There are still major gaps left. [[Applause]] Bravo. Beer will not be subject to this tax, but non-alcoholic beer will. Milk will not be, but also milk-like, yogurt-like products in which milk or yogurt has almost nothing, but there is plenty of sugar, neither will they. It's all because of your beautiful public consultation. There is an amendment tabled, the amendment is complex. Congratulations. Something like that hasn't been in the Polish Sejm in a long time. The correction is. And what we're spending three billion on. After the committee's work, it is worth recalling, because you rejected my clubmate's amendments, that out of these 3 billion - so boasting that money will go into physical culture - in short, 170 million will go into physical culture. I also propose, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, the second amendment, which was rejected in the first reading of the committee by the votes of the PiS. I still believe that leaving the wording that the money that goes to the National Health Fund will be spent on other alcohol-related diseases. This is the gateway that PiS has traditionally entered into all funds, the gateway that will make it possible to use money spent on Poles for any purpose thanks to this law. We suggest that if you introduce this shameful tax, it is intended (the bell) for mental care and treatment of addiction. [[Applause]] Your Marshal... Yes, sir. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u568	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Marek Rutka. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u569	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill under consideration is a step in the right direction. However, this is not enough. The government has recently withdrawn its proposal to introduce fees for advertising dietary supplements, and this is a very poorly controlled market in Poland, which, which has to be stressed, feeds on the unawareness of consumers and consumers, who are encouraged by advertising in the style of a tablet for everything, are usually unaware of the risks arising from their overdose, cross-reactions and such similar threats. It should be emphasized here that the dietary supplement market itself is worth over PLN 4 billion in our country. Withdrawal from advertising fees for dietary supplements is very mysterious, as was mysterious was the sudden withdrawal by the government from the so-called idea. a digital tax that would affect global, mostly US IT companies. Did this happen as a result of the intervention of those who tell us, or perhaps more to you, in foreign languages, what should we do? A very short period of vacathio legis is unacceptable. The Act is due to enter into force on 1 July, originally it was due to enter into force on 1 April, so that it is a minor concession, but it must be remembered that in the UK, when sugar tax was introduced, of course in a much more refined form than the submitted project, the adjustment period was up to 2 years. The signals reported by the National Association of Juice Producers Union show that such an express pace of implementation of the law for many Polish companies could mean bankruptcy or the need to reduce employment. This law is to enter into force on 1 July this year, but it must be borne in mind that, according to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the relevant vacathio legis is a constitutional rule of law. The order to apply the appropriate vacathio legis is part of a democratic legal state. It is based on the principle of citizen's trust in the State and its rights. At the same time, the principle of adequate vacathio legis is one of the directives of correct legislation, the application of which is the obligation of the legislator. This is what the Constitutional Court judgment of 15 February 2005 and 28 October 2009 are saying. Adaptation of companies to new regulations in such a short time seems practically impossible, for example because it is necessary to make changes in finance, IT systems, production. It is also practically impossible to renegotiate long-term contracts with commercial networks. Anyone who runs a serious business knows that, for example. Credit lines and trade agreements are concluded for a year, and in this case the change occurs suddenly within just a few months. The Left Club is in favour of promoting measures to improve the health of our society and, in particular, to develop proper eating habits primarily in the young generation. However, the club looks forward to such solutions, which will deal with this problem in a real way, on the one hand they will seek to promote health-promoting attitudes, and on the other hand they will not expose particularly domestic entrepreneurs, farmers, fruit farmers, food producers to a significant deterioration of the economic situation or even bankruptcy in extreme cases. In view of the above, the Left Club shall submit a proposal to extend the vacathio legis until 31 December for the Act to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u570	Thank you very much, sir. I parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u571	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Health Committee, thanks to the fact that many entrepreneurs and representatives of various kinds of organisations, including their associations, were finally consulted on a real event, for example because of what the entrepreneurs claimed was that the project presented in the pre-consultation was significantly different from the one put to the committee. I'll be honest with you, I think the entrepreneurs have made a mess of this project. There was a substantive criticism until the chips flew. They claimed, among others, that the so-called. The business constitution makes it clear that such legislation requires the impact of regulation on small and medium-sized enterprises. Entrepreneurs also alleged that they had too little time to change their basic case, or recipes. Not much, the entrepreneurs argued that there would be a problem with the protection of recipes, which are a trade secret. The proof that the proposed regulation strikes small and medium-sized enterprises was that two years were given during the introduction of similar regulation in the UK to prepare domestic operators. This is not how domestic entrepreneurs are treated in Poland. Most often it was pointed out that the introduction of a new tax would result in at least job cuts, and many would end up on the pavement, forced to close the company. What does the government have to say about that? It was like one song: if you don't know what to say, speak vaguely. If the government continues to treat entrepreneurs this way, Polish companies will suffer, the Polish economy will suffer, the state budget will suffer - in one word, such a policy the government cuts the branch on which it sits. I will not even mention health matters, because they serve you only as a smokescreen for the usual fundraiser we are witnessing. I give the rest of my time to Mr Sachaika. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u572	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u573	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Act in its current form will have an extremely destructive effect on fruiters, growers, fruit and vegetables producers. It will have irreversible consequences for entrepreneurs who produce unique Polish juices, which contain more than 20% of juices. Ladies and gentlemen! These recipes have evolved since the 1960s. We are the leaders in Europe in producing these healthy juices... Drinks. ...which complement the Polish diet based on vitamins, minerals, micro- and macronutrients. We cannot allow the attempt to jump into money under the health protection coat to cause enormous losses for Polish fruit and vegetables processors. This law has very mobilized the agricultural environment and companies producing products, because it will cause a breach of competition between Polish producers and producers from neighbouring countries who are not subject to such an additional tax. If the law enters without this amendment, which I will deposit as a representative of the Polish Coalition in a moment, it will cause Poles to move away from these good, tasty, healthy juices and drink whatever they drink, they will drink poor quality water with dyes and some flavor additives. High Izbo! The law in this form is an attack on Polish small and medium-sized processing plants. The ones that produce these nectars, which are still very eagerly consumed by Polish consumers. High Izbo! I would ask that this amendment, which I have prepared, be accepted. It refers only to the protection of those Polish plants which produce fruit and vegetable juices, which have more than 20% natural juice. I think that we should stand again as a whole House both behind Polish processors and also behind Polish producers of fruit and vegetables, because if this amendment is not accepted, it will turn out that a few hundred thousand tons of fruit and vegetables will be left in orchards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u574	Thank you very much, sir. Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. Mr Robert Winnicki will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u575	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Legitimate. This law is a law which, I assume, was created with good intentions, which these good intentions appeared in the government under pressure from medical circles. However, it was done quickly, sloppyly, I suspect that under the dictation of some lobbyist groups, both in terms of alcohol production and in terms of drinks and products that operate in this segment. Finally, it is legislation, and finally it is a law that contradicts all common sense principles in terms of making changes, such radical changes concerning important industries in the national economy. Today, it was celebrated at the committee meeting with a statement: the industries will probably manage somehow. Are they gonna be okay? Ladies and gentlemen! In this market, both in terms of alcohol production, which hits precisely this segment, which is mostly controlled by Polish capital and which competes primarily with global companies which are not taxed in this law... Yeah, taxes hit 800,000. monkeys produced to a large extent by Polish producers. These regulations do not hit 16 million beer packages, which are consumed daily by Poles, which are mostly in foreign hands. This is one example of the absurdity of this legislation. But also no vacathio legis. The annual vacathio legis is really a minimum of decency, Minister. A minimum of decency is that companies, so that Polish companies can function so that they can move so that they can start producing healthier food than what they are producing now, so that they can really react to this crazy competition that is on the international market, which they will use mercilessly - because you are hitting mostly Polish entrepreneurs - international companies. All of this could have had hands and legs if you hadn't taken absurd assumptions, if you hadn't acted like, I'd say, King Julian of Madagascar: and now quickly, before we realized that all this doesn't make any sense. This is unfortunately the case with this law, and therefore in its present form it should go to the basket. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u576	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jakub Kulesza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u577	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our colleague, highly venerable Arthur Dziambor, who of this speaker was so critical of this bill, as you can see, is a bit biased. By the way, we're afraid he's gonna go to waste without that sugar. But I personally really: water, black coffee, since Christmas beer, but without glucose-fructose syrup, 100% malt. I can impose this healthy lifestyle on my son. He's two years old, too, and he only drinks water. But you want to impose it on everyone. Just like the most honorable of your Euro MP Spurek. She's vegan, everyone has to be vegan, because it's healthy, and ban meat. This is exactly the same fascist ideology. The left connects with the left. That should be nice. Ha, ha, ha! But do you have a moral right to impose on others how to live? Look at these empty benches. Here you go, a bottle of Coke, there's an empty bench - a can of Coke, there's two bottles of glucose-fructose juice. The messenger of the Left walked with a bar and a sweet drink. We have water. After every session - Members of the Whiskey Coke, Members of the Coke - a cookie, a sweet drink. Do you want to teach the public? The Confederacy. You've introduced, I'm talking to the Platform, a ban on yeast in schools. What's the effect? How much obesity has fallen among children, huh? I'm listening. Exactly. They brought them back. But it is not even about society, it is also about the economy, the Polish food industry, the Polish spirit industry, which the state is punishing. Two months of vacathio legis, so much time is given by the state to the production companies to adjust their production. New products, new recipes for lower sugar content. You simply want to slaughter this industry, just as the cow that gives milk (the bell) is slaughtered, this milk will no longer be there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u578	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of Members of the Question House. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Szejna, the Left. There isn't. Then Mr Jarosław Sachajko, PSL-Kukiz15. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. I saw it was, yeah. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u579	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question, namely both the draft and the report foresee that some of the money from the fees will be spent on the development of sport for children and young people, sport activation. The Act states that this is the amount of PLN 117 million which will be transferred to the Physical Culture Development Fund. On the other hand, the impact assessment refers to the amount of PLN 170 million. I would like to ask, what are the reasons why, in addition to the payment of money to the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture, there is a provision - up to 8% for the fund for solving gambling problems. Because this fund is an instrument of the Minister of Health, it is written: up to 8%, while when it comes to the Minister of Sport and Sports Activity (Ringing) it is only a sum. It is known that this will be an evaluation of income. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u580	Mr. President. Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u581	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My hands were affected by two letters: from producers of fruit drinks and dairy cooperatives. Letters containing a great concern that the new tax will result in a decrease in employment in these companies, as well as a decrease in cooperation with sadists, farmers, milk producers. It all happens at the expense of producers of black currants, apples, cherries, aronia, carrots and raspberries. In the area of the Limanów district, which I represent, it is Małopolska, the sadization in difficult mountain area, the Podgórski area takes about 5% the area of fruit orchards and the national average is around 2,5%. On the other hand, the agricultural land in my district is 42.5%. , while the national average is 74.6%. I am asking you how you intend to compensate workers, producers, farmers, Sadists, all these difficulties (The Bell) and all the losses they will incur for the implementation of this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u582	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u583	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will continue to insist with a maniac of passion that the Minister still has not changed the record and Polish juices, Polish drinks with 20% juice content will be taxed. Why? Because you didn't extract natural juice sugar and added these 5 g per 100 ml. I will remind you once again, on behalf of the Polish farmers of the Sadists, that this will result in what was in 2018. I will tell you because you probably do not know that the Polish state under the motto KOWR paid for intervention buying apples 100 million PLN. Imagine what will happen if most of these fruits are not bought, because with this one entry on the 12th page, as far as point 5 is concerned, you will cause (The Bell) that unique Polish drinks, which contain 20% of juices, will be taxed. Thank you, Member. I protest. I'm asking you to, and I'm warning you, this will be the next amendment in the Senate... Thank you very much, Member. ...because it's not right to kill Polish industry like that. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u584	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u585	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like an explanation for this case. If anyone has a great idea to fight for the right cause, does it come to the Sejm at hours? 1 a.m., does he process it under cover of the night when everyone's asleep? Is this the way a normal person behaves, who is sure that he is going to fight for the right cause, or is there a lot of looting going on at night? Secondly, if you have planned the tax impact in the amount corresponding to current consumption, what will fall? Explain it to me like a five-year-old. If the influence doesn't drop, then I don't think it's gonna drop either. But maybe I'm wrong. If the Minister were kind. Unless you're predicting it's not going to increase. But how do you verify that? This is a really windy case. And third, last question. Minister, why do you want to destroy Polish companies, Polish producers so systematically? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you want to destroy the lives of people who work in those companies who lose their jobs? Because you can't... Thank you very much. ...to look for savings at your place, but you're charging another 41th tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u586	Thank you, sir. Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u587	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You're actually rushing this project that we can't keep up with you, but it's a tradition. It's a shame we're debating such an important project at this time of night. I would like to ask a question provoked by the funding of the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports. Mr Tomaszewski gave me some warning. I think you're talking about the big money, the big billions, and the sport, the Physical Culture Development Fund and the units of the local government that you're supporting are just a veil, the kind of alibi you've come up with. Tell me, why 170 or 117? Why two hundred and a half million to local government units? Where did you get this? Where do you guys get this? What kind of analysis? It's supposed to be a percentage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's always been that the Seym did something once and for all. Thank you. It is not known whether these influences will be greater or smaller. Let's make it a percentage. It's fair, not from the hat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u588	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u589	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that we appreciate that the amendments to this law contain provisions that protect Polish producers from situations where hypermarkets or large corporations are trying to... Bullshit. I know it's very late, but I would call for any culture in this debate, okay? I am neither disturbing the Members of the opposition nor disturbing the Members of Law and Justice. This really is the minimum we can expect from each other. I'm glad that record showed up. I appreciate that, but we also want to call for this work on the issue of taxation of products containing too much sugar to continue. We have these dairy products, all these very, very sweet products, primarily directed to children, who really do not have a good influence on them. So let's keep going in that direction. I'm hoping we can sort out the whole supplement segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u590	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u591	High and a bit empty, Izbo! Minister! It is good that under the pressure of the arguments which the Left presented, you have made amendments to protect equality of Polish producers. Too bad you didn't have the courage to expand the number of products subject to this tax. It is a pity that the dairy products that Mrs Gosek-Popielek has just mentioned remain shut down all the time. I wanted to talk about something else. Minister, you argued - in and out of the room - that the vanishing tax on advertising supplements is that it is linked to plans for the overall regulation of this issue. My question is very simple. When, Minister? We'll hold you to your word, because this wild market just needs to be regulated. Each month of leaving the gates open is simply something harmful to the state and, of course, to people who fall victim to unfair business practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u592	Thank you. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u593	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would very much - it is hour. 1.10 - so that the government's determination to push this bill forward quickly equals his courage. I have the impression that this courage in terms of, for example, the limitation of sales of monkeys, or minor alcohol, was lacking. It is not that the universal and unlimited availability of high-interest alcohol in any litre is a human right. Here, it would be wiser to simply prohibit the sale of high-fat alcohol in packages of less than 0.5 l. There is something deeply inappropriate about the fact that in Poland vodka in small bottles is bought widely - going to work, coming back from work - that this harmful addiction accompanies us at every step, and much less dangerous joint inflammation by, say, Philip of Opole can end in very serious consequences. It would be worthwhile to ensure that what really harms millions of Poles is slightly less accessible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We call for more courage and for less alcohol sales in packages of less than 0.5 l.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u594	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u595	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure you won't be surprised that I'm going to repeat what my colleagues and my colleagues from the party said together. This bill is a step in the right direction, but we need more courage. I hope that ultimately more products, more unhealthy food will be included in the list of products covered by this tax. I also hope that the sale of alcohol in bottles with a capacity of less than 500 ml will ultimately be prohibited. I think that we can really talk about real health-promoting activities then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u596	Thank you very much. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u597	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very bad bill. It introduces a tax from which you will have 3 billion PLN of revenue per year in the budget, and that is all you want. It's all about money. The bottler industry accounts for 70% The Polish industry that you're destroying. You don't care about businessmen. There's gonna be dismissals. I didn't hear at first reading, Minister, who would pay the tax, so I ask again: producer, wholesaler or retailer? Why are you in such a hurry? Is it because you lack 52 billion zlotys to balance your budget? Looking hard for this money, you're destroying the drug industry. Entrepreneurs do not have time to prepare for the entry into force of this law. Is the legislator planning to extend the vacathio legis to at least 1 year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the way it's supposed to be. As far as the monkeys are concerned, you guys are totally overreacting. It's definitely not a health bill. Think about what you're doing. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u598	Thank you. Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u599	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's empty. Minister! Why are high-sweetened dairy products, so popular with our children, not covered by this law? First of all, we should go two-track and educate young people in primary schools to make them acquire good eating habits. This is what we should do first. And there should be a wide campaign covering all primary schools, high school, high school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u600	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u601	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As Poles we consume a lot of sugar, over 50 kg per person. But this bill only applies to those 9 kg that are in different kinds of drinks. My question is how much sugar we consume in those drinks that have more than 20% sugar. Because maybe we're really fighting the industry that makes these drinks, we're fighting farmers, and we're really gonna do more damage than good? Thank you. But we're not the ones fighting. They're the ones fighting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u602	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Janusz Cieszyński, will answer questions on behalf of the government. You're welcome. It's not the Sejm that fights, it's the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u603	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. I'll try to answer them one at a time. Starting with Mr Tomaszewski's question, which is why this amount for the agency for solving alcohol problems. Why the money for something called a gambling fund? As a general rule, it is a fund that can also finance expenditure in the context of alcohol prevention by the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's 8%. 50%. And here I will answer Mr Raś's question immediately, why there are no percentages. Well, sir, this bill fights percentages, but here these percentages are because it's 50%. The proceeds from the monkey toll, it goes to the National Health Fund. Brilliant, but not about it. Of which 8% This is the gambling fund that is being used in the context of the anti-alcoholic prevention conducted by PARPA. On the other hand, you also asked about the amount of PLN 117 million. This is the amount established with the Ministry of Sport and related to what amounts are necessary to extend the operation of the SKS programme to 1.5 million children. It is now about 0.5 million. Now it's going to be 1.5 million. Awful much. But in 10 years, it could be... Ladies and gentlemen, please. There was time to ask questions. Minister, answer me. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: On the other hand, as far as these amounts are concerned, the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture is also funded from other sources. In our view - and this is also in the assessment of the impact of the regulation, that influences may remain at a similar level during this time - we also plan a fixed amount, as I say, after consulting the Minister of Sport. It seems that this is a good step and for the first time such a breach of a rule, that in the context of this primary prevention, which was very often discussed in the course of the work on this law, these are the means for this prevention for the youngest, for children in classes I-III. It's for those school sports clubs. I hope that, at least in this respect, these changes find your approval. Mrs Nowogórska and Mrs Niedziela asked - and it seems that this question was also raised later - about the issue of sadists. That's a very good question. Drinks. Yes, of course. From drinks that have at least 20% content, this fruit stuffing... And nectars. Yes, nectars - 25%. And, of course, will this project adversely affect the situation of these companies? Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare the amount of the levy that is being imposed on just such a drink as you mentioned, with the amount of the levy imposed on other popular carbonated drinks, which are actually, ladies and gentlemen, a solution of sugar, water, some dyes, sometimes caffeine... Those are the ones we should be promoting. Dear Member, such drinks are subject to a 3-fold higher fee. It's not true that... If we read only the initial rules determining the amount of the charge, it may indeed seem that there is really no exemption here in any way for these beverages. However, if we look, this fee consists of a fixed part and a variable part. We know that, OK. Beverages with just this fruit or fruit and vegetable or vegetable input are in this category, which is covered only by this variable fee. That's the one that encourages reform. The provision which you point out concerns the exclusion and there is in fact up to 5 g, but from 5 g up goes precisely this variable fee. This is due to the legislative technique, but... But up to 5 comes the sugar juice content. As for products that contain only sugar derived from natural juice... They don't just contain it. Well, that's it. If we have added... Currants cannot be produced exclusively. We are aware of this, but if there is added sugar, we encourage reformation, we encourage a reduction in this level, while in any case such a blackcurrant drink is subject to a threefold lower fee than e.g. It's a soda. But he is Polish fruit, from Polish producers, should not be at all... 11 g per 100 ml is not a small amount of sugar in our assessment. 5, 5. But okay, back to the questions. Mr Suchoń asked why we are taking this project at this time. Well, I guess... You don't brag about anything during the day. We've all been in Parliament all day. Excuse me, sir... Member, please... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Also, as much as possible... And tomorrow we have to vote. ...we're happy to talk about it during the day. But we couldn't attend during the day, former committees. On the other hand, it seems that the state as an opposition actually required the government to prove that Mariusz Kaminski is an honest man, which seems quite obvious and that is why we spend so long here today. In one day... But if we're talking about stable influences... This shows how serious you are about this debate... Minister, please continue and don't discuss this alone. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: If we are talking about this issue, why these influences are stable, why this amount in the impact assessment is the same. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that there will be no effect, because consumption will be at the same level. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at what happened in previous years. In a few years consumption has increased by several percent. The number or percentage of children who are overweight or obese has increased by 20% over the decade. Polish children are the fastest fatter in Europe. And these are the actual reasons, based on the results of scientific research, for which we are introducing this fee. And, ladies and gentlemen, today at the committee meeting, each of you had the opportunity to read the positive opinion of the World Health Organisation. The U.N. says otherwise, because, Minister, why don't you tax the sugar... I'm gonna get right to it, because this is a whole bunch of questions from the Left Club and their questions, where the courage of Law and Justice has gone. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are following exactly those guidelines I was talking about. According to the World Health Organisation's guidelines, which clearly indicates that it is among the children, among whom these indicators are deteriorating so rapidly, that the percentage of obese people is increasing, the most effective way to tackle this problem is to introduce charges for sweetened beverages. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not result from the fact that this is the original idea, the only one in Europe, in the world. No. Such fees are introduced by many countries: France, Portugal, United Kingdom, Mexico, Denmark... It doesn't work there. Ladies and gentlemen! You're pointing out it's not working. A lot smaller. I encourage you to read the justification, where we refer to do dozens of scientific works, which clearly provide evidence of concrete effectiveness, that the consumption of sweetened beverages falls by up to 19%. And what are they replaced with? Not like our opponents said during the consultation with doughnuts or chocolates. No. Mineral water. Mineral water, which we have in Poland the best in Europe, the highest requirements. But in... Of course. And we accepted a number of these comments. We also received a number of comments during the work in the Sejm. We have accepted the comments which were supported by the Left Club, and here Mr Zandberg asked... In Hungary... ...why there are no milk products. You asked why we supported you on these import products, why we explained here why there are no dairy products. But you have not tabled such an amendment. We had nothing to talk about. It is with great pleasure, as you know, that we are referring to all these issues, but here there was simply no concrete proposal, so it was very difficult to make a substantive point. It is also worth pointing out that in the course of the second reading two further amendments have been introduced precisely clarifying, in a sense, in accordance with the spirit of this project. Question that also came from the Left Club: When are diet supplements? Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I have declared many times. In fact, with this last declaration at the meeting of the Sejm in December, I rushed a bit, I said that soon there would be a project that would respond to this. In fact, in the course of the consultation it turned out that we should further refine it, rethink it. On the other hand, I am convinced that such a project will come this year and you will all be able to lean on it and work on it in Parliament. Mr Necessary asked why we do not prohibit the sale of monkeys, why we do not go as far as possible, towards a total ban. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of the common European market, such a ban is ineffective. It would be very easy to import such products from abroad, especially since we have a packaging directive that makes it very difficult to exclude specific volumes from sales in one Member State. We know there are countries that have gone this way. We know. However, as I say, we also want time to start addressing all these issues as soon as possible. Where such far-reaching regulations have been introduced, it has taken much longer to process them, and in my view it is not absolutely clear whether these regulations will continue in the course of the examination by the European courts. But we don't say no. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Mrs Navel's question, the question about money in the budget. Dear Member, none of this is going to go to the state budget. These funds will go to the National Health Fund, they will go to local governments, who, during the work of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, said that they support this project because it is the first project in history to give them real tools to fight alcoholism in municipalities. Because it is the municipalities that bear much of the burden of fighting excessive alcohol consumption. And according to the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, this problem is largely focused on the consumption of alcohol in these smallest bottles, so-called. Monkeys. You also asked who would pay those fees. Dear Member, in the case of monkeys, we are talking about the so-called. the supplier, that is to say, the supplier of the product for retail sale. It's going to be a wholesaler, it could be a producer. This may also be in a situation where the producer himself is selling. The same entity at the time when the relevant storage transfer takes place. Dear Member, this is a definition that already exists in the same law today. We didn't come up with that. On the other hand, when it comes to sweetened drinks, here is the definition of so-called. placing on the market, also based on definitions from other laws, from other charges. We don't re-invent anything because we don't have to re-invent wheels, we just introduce mechanisms that have worked out and that guarantee effective collection. In the course of the consultation, we reduced the number of entities which have any reporting obligations imposed in relation to these charges, precisely by transferring this from detail to wholesale level. This has reduced the number of these entities more than ten times. As far as vacathio legis is concerned, I even had the opportunity to read the amendment of the Left Club. It's still there, and I think that's been going through some of the speeches, and you're talking about this vacathio legis before the committee's work, which is April 1st. But today, in response to the demands of entrepreneurs, we have indicated in response to your demands that we recommend moving this vacathio legis to 1 July. Not long enough, Minister. Mr Krutul asked why dairy products are not covered. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are based on the opinion of the Institute of Food and Nutrition, which clearly indicates that due to the fact that we have low intake of calcium in Poland, it is not appropriate to exclude such products. We have here the opinions of professionals who deal with this subject. Moreover, in the course of work in the committee, the Law and Justice Club prepared an amendment which was tabled at second reading and which takes into account that certain drinks which were different from what we assumed, classified in the classification of products and services, will also be included. It's about drinks that have milk as a leading ingredient. This is in line with the demands of organisations that represent the dairy industry. As for the question of education, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this bill, you will see that this is exactly what the funds will be allocated for. For education. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I've been able to answer all the questions. Thank you very much and I strongly encourage you to support the project at the third reading tomorrow. And my question? The corrected name was mentioned. How much sugar are there in those drinks? That's nine kilos? About the drinks... We're fighting for 20 pounds, including drinks. How many of those drinks in those nine kilos... Those drinks... In the juice? Ladies and gentlemen, according to my (Bingle) knowledge - that I should not be wrong in counting... Over 20. Very little. ...about 1/6 of the volume of drinks sold are those beverages. There are different levels of sugar, so it's hard for me to answer that. Why can't we fire them from this charge? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our goal is also to reduce the sugar content of such products, added sugar... I do. ...and the incentive to reform is a rational procedure, at least that's what our assessment shows, and that's how we got through the consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u604	Thank you very much, Minister. One sentence. Member, but in what way? Well, you didn't answer me, Minister. But this isn't the mode for that, really. But one sentence. The question has been asked, the Minister has answered as he thought it would be. He didn't answer. But it's the Minister's decision. Lockdown, ladies and gentlemen, discussion. Amendments were tabled in the discussion and a request for a third reading was made without referring the draft to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will therefore proceed to the third reading at the next session of the Sejm. Game in the O.R. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism and the law on enforcement proceedings in administration (print No 209). You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to move the conversations into cockroaches, because I can't do this, really. You should have answered that. I would like to ask the Minister of Sport, Mrs Danuta Dmowska-Andrzejuk, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u605	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed legislative changes aim to optimise the system of charging and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism, and to create the conditions for effective recovery by the tax authorities. The subject of amendments to the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism shall be the clarification of the provisions relating to the levy referred to in Article. 13. The date of entry into force of these amendments is 1 July 2020. I request that the Sejm adopt the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u606	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u607	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present a position regarding the Government's draft law amending the Law on Sobriety and Against Alcoholism and the Law on Enforcement in Administration, print No 209. The proposed legislative changes aim to optimise the system of charging and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism, and to create the conditions for effective recovery by the tax authorities. The subject of amendments to the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism shall be the clarification of the provisions relating to the levy referred to in Article. 13 According to the current legal situation resulting from the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, operators providing advertising services for alcoholic beverages pay 10% on a separate account created for this purpose by the Minister responsible for physical culture. the tax base on goods and services resulting from that service. The revenue from the fee is the income of the Sports Activities Fund for Students, which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for physical culture. The current circumstances mean that another entity receives the fee due and another declaration adversely affects the efficiency of the toll collection system. In addition, in the current legal state, the Law on Sobriety and Antitrust Education does not contain provisions of competence which would explicitly specify the authorities competent to decide and recover the fee referred to in Article. 13 The implementation of the tasks resulting from the proposed regulation will contribute to the efficient handling of the advertising fee for alcoholic beverages and thus the faster impact of the funds on the separate bank account of the Sports Activities Fund for Students. This applies to providers of advertising services for alcoholic beverages, e.g. TV, supermarkets, shops, publishing houses, radios, restaurants. The proposal does not require the submission of an opinion to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union. High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend supporting this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u608	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Ireneusz Raś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u609	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition's position on this draft law on the amendment of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration. As the Minister has presented, my predecessor, representing the position of the Law and Justice Club, has put forward detailed opinions, indeed this printing is intended to improve the efficiency of charging and to introduce provisions that could result in better recovery in the absence of these charges. At this stage we want, we are in favour of further work in committees. We're not making any comments. After these years of experience, it seems to be appropriate. We know, I want to emphasize that the Sports Activities Fund for Students has beautifully entered into the financing of Polish sport, especially the one that is connected with the dissemination of physical culture. It should be stressed that this fund is a fund that supports sports clubs, NGOs, local government units that organise activities for children and young people. These measures are always, you can say, in the Polish reality, lacking and should have more at the disposal of the Minister, the Ministry of Sport, so if this efficiency of toll collection is better, then more of these measures will be. That's what this parliament invented once, the Physical Culture Development Fund and the Sports Activities Fund for Students. They are funds that we can be proud of, that Parliament once introduced it, and today we just want to model it. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club at this stage, we are in favour. We have no reservations, and we hope that we will quickly introduce these changes that will help in the effective collection of fees that will feed the sport of children and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u610	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u611	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few sympathizers of lawmaking, but it is understandable, for we are already 14 hours old, and it is just past the hour. 1:30 a.m. By virtue of the article. 133 of the Act of 26 October on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism was created the Sports Activities Fund for Students, which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for physical culture. This fund is a State-owned special-purpose fund and its revenues are revenue from fees which advertising service providers of alcoholic beverages bring to an isolated account created for this purpose by the Minister responsible for physical culture. This fee is 10% tax bases on goods and services resulting from this service. The fund shall be used to finance sport activities for pupils, run by sports clubs acting in the form of associations and other non-governmental organisations which, as part of their statutory activities, carry out tasks in the field of the dissemination of physical culture to children and young people, as well as those organised by self-government bodies, as well as those set out in the public health legislation on physical activity. The implementation of sports activities for pupils has been supported by this fund since 2003. Between 2005 and 2008, classes were designed for students of all types of schools and included various sports such as football, volleyball and basketball. In 2009 the programme priority was adopted: swimming lessons. The aim of this solution was to promote swimming skills and to eliminate barriers to access to organised forms of physical activity by creating conditions for participation in extracurricular swimming lessons. In 2013, the Ministry of Sport prepared a nationwide programme for the dissemination of swimming lessons. I can swim. Since 2017, the implementation of the "Swimming" programme has continued and the scope of funding has been extended to include sports, among others. Winter sports. Why such a long introduction? This is a long introduction because it is with satisfaction that we accept that at the basis of the adoption of this law, a law good for the development of Polish sport, a law good for the development of youth sport, children and youth, was the government of the Democratic Alliance, former Members who were sitting here on these benches, among others. present here today at this debate by Tadeusz Tomaszewski, President of the Parliament's Committee on Physical Culture and Sport. We welcome, and probably so, that the left in this room will praise the good solutions that work in our country, which the Law and Justice want to improve so that they are even better. Therefore, we welcome the case taken by the PiS regarding the revision of this project, so that legislative changes optimise the system of charging, and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism. A good project, a project that has the right opinions of both the Polish Olympic Committee and the Polish Paralympian Committee, my club welcomes it, but it is probably the case that a little, I would say, we accept with such mixed feelings why such a good project of the PiS can be consulted at 1.45 p.m. We are convinced and encourage you to make these good projects that... 40 more. 40. ...were once, and good laws implemented by the left, the Alliance of the Left, were more often found in this room and were modified, and we will try each time to determine our green light. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u612	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u613	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to give an opinion on behalf of my club on these changes to the law on the amendment of the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the law on enforcement in administration. Given the time and the fact that the topic was actually exhausted by my previous speakers, fully described and told, it can actually only be added that my club will also support all the good changes that are supposed to improve the law that are also intended to serve the development of sport, so we will fully support this initiative, because we believe that the funds for the student sports fund are a noble objective. If we can only improve the flow of these funds, we can improve this good law, we will certainly support here. And these changes are very well founded, so our club also believes, so we fully sign, support and continue to work on them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u614	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. And Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the First Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u615	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Dear Parliamentaries! This bill will soon be 18 years old, she will grow up. On 28 March 2003, I had the honour of introducing this solution to this 10% fee on behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture and Sport. First, the money went to the minister's account, then to the fund, and it is good for the development of sport among children and young people, especially since in recent years this fund has two or three priorities that have not been distributed, but it is known that it is implementing these projects together with local and non-governmental partners. The Minister has a good start today, because a good bill, 117 million of sugar, so it's all good for sport. I wanted to ask you one question about this law (the bell) which introduces additional financial resources. I think the Minister representing this bill said it was only about after-school activities. Mr President, finish up. Thank you. But I think it's all about the goals that are being pursued in the Physical Culture Development Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u616	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u617	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Few Messengers and Members! Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't you three-tracking? I mean, first of all, we forget about education, too. You could introduce, apart from the monkeys we're dealing with here, to have a wide-ranging media coverage, on TV, on the radio about countering alcoholism. Why in this bill we also forget about cheap beers, to which all consumption will now be transferred, which are plenty on shelves of shops or shopping galleries or food discounts. We shouldn't forget that, because as far as beer is concerned, we have a very high growth year by year in terms of its consumption, and this is going to translate into hop alcohol. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u618	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, the Minister for Sport Mrs Danuta Dmowska-Andrzejuk will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u619	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to point out that we are currently working on a law to amend the law on sobriety and alcoholism. The two questions that were asked here were the Sugar Act, the sugar levy. But of course I'm referring to the first question. In fact, the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture supports, so to speak, wide-ranging sporting tasks, precisely concerning children and young people. It's a pretty big source. As for the second question, it's just like I said, it's not about the subject, which is why I think... Don't worry. Good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u620	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill includes a significant change in the functioning of the system of charging for advertising of alcoholic beverages in connection with obligations arising from the provisions of the current Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism. However, the current charging system is highly inefficient due to the gap by which the Ministry does not have full information about the obliged entities. For what amount are the lost revenue of the State budget estimated due to the failure of the toll collection system? According to the justification of this project, the money pool from the payments made by entrepreneurs to the student sport will increase. So what is the estimated increase in revenue in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u622	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration, contained in print No 209, to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and to the Committee on Health for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this, ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda of the 5th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement and... Yeah, yeah. But you've come forward before? I didn't volunteer. Then turn yourself in. I consider the list of Members to be closed. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice will be the first to make a statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u623	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! People of Krosna Odrzański on Lubuska land! I come to you satisfied with this and glad that I do not have to start my second parliamentary term as in 2015 by participating in the blockade of the bridge in our city in order to force the decision to build the ring road Krosn Odrzański. This is no longer necessary, and if you look back at the history of her efforts, we need to go back to the times of your chief, then the mayor, Bolesław Bork, then Andrzej Chinalski and Mark Cebula, who knew that the ring road was necessary, but the power of the formation that supported them did nothing to meet these expectations. It is only the Government of Law and Justice, instead of saying and promising, that it is one step at a time, and the Member of Krosna Odrzański, in cooperation with the other Members of Law and Justice, has effectively led first to obtaining funds for work on technical and environmental studies, and today to put our investment in the government's 100 bypass programme. They're concrete. Now it is time for further work to announce the tender and carry out the construction procedure as planned and the tender in the third quarter of 2021. Killjoys in Krosno are not lacking. They are looking for a hole in the whole, different Facebookers and commentators are usually far from objective judgment and admitting that no one else, only the Government of Law and Justice has taken a great step to ensure that the dream of looms is fulfilled so that the next generation lives safer and healthier in our city. When I say those words, I don't expect you to thank me because I know you can't afford this gesture. Nevertheless, I know who to thank. Let me remind you of President Andrzej Duda's visit to our town. During this visit he also promised us that he would support this investment, and every time we met, we talked about Krosn's affairs, he reminded us of this commitment and helped effectively. I therefore thank President Andrzej Duda for his help, and I thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister Andrzej Adamski and Rafał Weber, who have successfully brought us to this stage in their political and economic decisions today. But without the support of Lubusian parliamentarians, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Mr Mark Ast or Jerzy Materna, it would certainly be much harder. We would tear apart the needs of individual cities of Lubuskie land, and so, being integrated, we successfully managed to ensure that six cities of Lubuskie land entered the 100 bypasses program. So I would like to thank my fellow Members of Parliament, just like you, the voivode of Lubuskie, Władysław Dajczak, for the fact that he has applied for this ring road every time. So rejoice, you looms, and do not be offended by the Law and Justice, that even though the authority in the city and you say it is less favorable to us, we support it, because we know that we are doing it in the interests of the people, not in a specific, more or less favorably favorable group of self-governments. It seems, therefore, that the Krosnień Land Lovers' Society can already remove banners from the vicinity of Krosno Odrzański, which were suspended during the protest period with the request to build a ring road, and it is probably more beneficial to put a sign on the new banners: the inhabitants of Krosna thank for the ring road.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u624	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. I do not see Mrs Margaret Chmiel. So I invite you to the speaker of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left. Why don't we stay till tomorrow morning? Ha, ha. We're doing so well...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u625	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, My statement concerns the acquisition by the bank of funds from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund for the payment of outstanding salaries. It turns out that the company which received these funds for the payment of outstanding salaries from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund in Poznań to the company's bank account PKO BP Branch in Słupca did not receive these funds for the intended purpose, i.e. the payment of outstanding salaries of employees. The ZUS bailiffs got to those measures and they took care of them. According to the Act on Benefits from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, these measures are not subject to bail-in. They would be subject to bail-out only if they concerned the same individuals and their arrears towards the Social Security Office. I therefore ask the authorising officer of these measures, namely the person responsible for the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, namely the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, to intervene against the next subject of the Minister, the Plant. Social insurance, so that it does not occupy the funds that they belong to employees, because the employer was unable to pay them adequate salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u626	Thank you very much, sir. Another statement, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u627	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The matter I would like to raise is quite delicate because it affects the sensitivity of religious beliefs. The current management board of the Podlaskie Voivodship, in which representatives of the so-called. The United Right, in a very specific way, decided to promote our region. That's why he hired $50,000. zł dzieciego youtubera, known as Lord Kruszwil, who shot and published on the Internet a video presenting his visit to the Podlaskie Voivodship. There would be nothing wrong with this, if not that the message to promote and convince to the advantages of one of the most beautiful parts of Poland, turned out to be rude and abusive fun for public money. The film, which cost really much and was accepted by the Marshals of the PiS and the Arrangement, in an indisputable way insults the inhabitants of Podlaskie. In fact, the whole contents of the Bible are in fact masquerading. The words that offended the religious feelings of the Orthodox community living in my region deserve special condemnation. The voivodship board considered it appropriate to spend 50,000. zł e.g. for mocking the Orthodox Cross and the Church. I am not going to quote the literal content of this questionable work, it does not deserve it. However, I want to strongly emphasize on behalf of the Polish People's Party that the strength of the Podlaskie voivodship is its cultural and religious diversity. So far, this diversity has been our strength and a kind of export goods, and we are still proud that Podlasie brings together Catholics, Orthodox, Muslim, old-timer and Protestant. All residents create a colourful mosaic of cultures, traditions and rituals, which represents a unique picture on the scale of Europe - an image which is interesting for visitors, including tourists, without any dubious promotion of the current management of the voivodship. Therefore, I stress with all my might: there is no permission from us to offend religious feelings, ridicule from any religion and church. We do not need such promotion and we do not agree to it. Podlaskie will always be a wealth of diversity, despite the mental poverty of some regional politicians who do not understand their own region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u628	Thank you very much, sir. Another statement will be made by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u629	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the year 100 people have been killed on Polish roads, including half on pedestrian crossings, and 95% It's the driver's fault. It's the scale of the challenge we all face. I am really glad that the current government has finally faced the problem of pedestrians dying on Polish roads. In recent days, the situation is that the Ministry of Infrastructure has presented a draft amendment to the law, and Minister Andrzej Adamczyk has ensured that the safety of vulnerable road users must increase. However, the ideas of the ministry are far too conservative not to say: too cowardly for what a serious problem we are facing. Over the past months, representatives of the Ministry have assured members and members of the Infrastructure Committee that they intend to change the situation of pedestrian safety in real terms. However, as it has already come to this point, the present bill contains only the provision of giving priority to the transition. The sound of this recording is absolutely not sufficient. As we know, Polish roads resemble the Wild West, in which pedestrians or pedestrians alone must face the traffic. The pedestrian safety rules must clearly protect against risks. Priority should therefore be given not only to pedestrians who enter the passage, but also to those who expect to pass, otherwise car users will continue to be treated in a privileged way, and pedestrians will only be able to stand and watch helplessly as their cars pass by. Changing this important law is also an excellent opportunity to look at the problem of pedestrian safety from a wider perspective, to create an impulse that will change our habits and ways of thinking. Therefore, it is worth asking what about the promotion of road safety. What's the Ministry's idea for that? What resources and what actions will be allocated? It is important to ensure that Polish drivers are aware that their behaviour depends on the safety of vulnerable users and road users, including children and older people who are very often killed under the wheels of cars. Finally, what about the infrastructure? The government assures us that the state budget is in very good shape. This is a great time to invest in the safety of pedestrian crossings, because there is no more necessary expenditure than the one that can protect people's lives. The Civic Coalition therefore proposes the creation of a new special-purpose reserve of PLN 1 billion, which would be used to equip pedestrians with lighting and other safety-enhancing elements. The Ministry of Infrastructure must decide on real and courageous changes in the law. Only such activities supported by education and infrastructure can ensure real safety. Ladies and gentlemen! Together, we can make the shameful number of victims on Polish roads finally lower. A word of closure, ladies and gentlemen, has just passed the hour. Two, it's past 17. hour of our deliberations, 18th hour of work of many employees and employees of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an outrage and I believe that such deliberations are some kind of mistake, and I hope that one day we will restore culture, normality and proper agenda to this House and to Polish politics. In the meantime, thank you. Good night. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u630	Thank you very much, sir. No one has promised that it will be easy, politics is service at every hour, and workers change and we try to ensure that they do not work for more than an hour. And last statement, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u631	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I dare to point out that we, too, have added a little bit of a brick because, through our statements, we have extended today's session of the Sejm, but we certainly have a lot of important issues that we would like to raise regardless of time. As you were gracious to mention, this is service to the nation. The people and our voters expect us to represent them with dignity here in Parliament. I wanted to ask again for my region, the region from which I come, the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. We have a really extraordinary problem with infrastructure, transportation. We just heard about the government's plans for 100 bypasses. I would like to see this programme carried out, although I am also obliged to act on behalf of the inhabitants of Sępólna and Kamień Krajński in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, because these important towns have been omitted in this programme, allegedly because the work on these ring roads is already very advanced in terms of design issues. Although I believe that they should also be included in this programme, because they are extremely important, they lie on important transport routes and their absence will cause major obstacles in traffic and communication within these cities. I am very pleased that Shozelno and Kruszwica and Nowa Wieś Wielka will receive bypasses, but I am very concerned about this program, because 100 bypasses are a huge challenge, mainly financial but also logistical: the development of the entire programme, the preparation of environmental decisions, all STEŚs and, above all, the search for companies that will implement these projects, all the more because the program is very ambitious, because it assumes the implementation of these bypasses in years when - I hope - PiS will no longer rule Poland, so that it will probably fall on our shoulders, because these investments are to be implemented after 2026. Question: "Where do we get the money for this?" Where are we gonna get the companies that are gonna do this? And will we be able to prepare projects first and foremost so far? Because these are very difficult tasks, especially when it comes to environmental issues. So much for this subject, although we'll do everything we can to make sure these bypasses are realized. Thank you very much and have a quiet night. We meet in a few hours. And since I'm the last speaker and it's Valentine's Day, I wish you a lot of love. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u632	Gee, thank you all so much. I thank the Members for their perseverance to the end. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u633	Statement on the 263th anniversary of Prince Kazimierz Nestor Sapieha's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 February 1757 Prince Kazimierz Nestor Sapieha was born, Marshal of the Confederation of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania at the time of the Four Year Sejm, General of Lithuanian Artillery, one of the creators and signatories of the Constitution on 3 May, participant in the Kościuszkowski Uprising, since 1776 the commander of the Holy Paul Apostle of the Maltese Order. Between 1767 and 1771 he studied at the School of Knights. His mother Elisabeth of the Branice Popeine led King Stanisław August Poniatowski to appoint an 18-year-old son as general. Prince Kazimierz Nestor Sapieha was a member of the Treasury Department of the Permanent Council in 1779. He was a Member of the Sejm in 1786 from the district of Brest. He was also a Member of the Brest-Lithuanian Voivodeship at the Four Year Sejm in 1788. In the same year, on January 11, he became the great master of the Masonic Lodge of the Great East of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. As it was then written: "This hand of freemason embraced the hammer, in which with such a famous staff (the Marshal's Sejm), this sign of leadership in the Free Nation reigns. Since 1776 he has been in the ranks of the Magnack opposition, led by his uncle F.K. Branicki. In 1788 he was a marshal of the Lithuanian Confederacy in the Four Years Seym. Under the influence of S. Małachowski went on the side of supporters of the Constitution on 3 May. He was one of the signatories to the Constitution on May 3rd. In 1792, he was in favour of continuing the war with Russia, opposed the accession of King Stanisław August Poniatowski to the Tarkowice confederation. Soon after, he went into exile. After the outbreak of the Kościuszkowski Uprising, he returned to the country and took part in battles as captain of the artillery. After the insurrection collapsed, he left for Vienna. He was awarded the Order of the White Eagle, and on January 1, 1779, he became a bachelor of the Order of St Stanislaw. On 6 October 1788 he gathered under the staff of the Confederacy (which meant the adoption of resolutions by a majority, i.e. the elimination of liberum veto) of the Sejm, called because of the importance of decisions made on it by the Great, and because of the duration - by four years. His marshals were chosen by Stanisław Małachowski, the Crown Speaker, and the Lithuanian Kazimierz Nestor Sapieha, the Lithuanian Artillery General.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u634	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Senior programmes run by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy are a response to the challenges posed by demographic processes in Poland. The Government of Law and Justice is not only seeking to improve the living conditions of the elderly. It is equally important for these programmes to exploit the potential and life experience of older people. Seniors are a true treasurer of knowledge, experience, and wisdom of life, which we should all use. The "Emerity+' programme, the restoration of the retirement age, the increase in the lowest benefits, the valorisation, the "75+' programme are measures to improve the status of seniors, seniors, who are a large and important social group. Seniors must have a decent place in the community. They must be surrounded by respect and gratitude. They cannot be excluded, discriminated against and forgotten. An important task of government programmes is to activate this age group widely. The extension of the network of daily homes and clubs for the elderly as part of the "Senior+" programme gives seniors the opportunity to spend time using cultural offer or sports activities, but also provides care and assistance in daily activities. Self-governments may submit offers under the multi-annual scheme At the turn of January and February in Mława and Lekowa, their doors for seniors opened up this type of facility. An especially important event for residents was the opening of the club in my home town of Lekowy (part of the Regimina). Thanks to the courtesy of the local parish my older friends, neighbors and friends have a meeting place, they can pursue their ideas and intentions, but, most importantly, leave the house, be active, be together, share their concerns and joys, they can count on each other. It's very important. Remember, we're all gonna be seniors someday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u635	On February 8, 1951, Zygmunt Szendzielarz was murdered in a communist prison. Łupaszka, major of the Polish Army cavalry, bachelor of the Order of Virtuti Militari and the Fighting Cross, participant of the Defensive War 1939, AK soldier, creator and commander of the famous 5. The Vilnius AK Brigade fighting the German and Soviet occupation. Along with him, other officers of the Vilnius District of the Home Army were executed: - Colonel. Anthony Olechnovich, - Captain. Henry Borowski, - Porcelain. Lucjan Minkiewicz. They died for free Poland faithful to the soldier's oath. Hello their memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u636	Statement on World Radio Day. In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the World Radio Day held today. The initiative of this day was born in the Spanish Academia Espanola de la Radio on 20 September 2010. Exactly this day commemorates the inauguration of the United Nations radio station, which was established in 1946. According to historical sources, the first country in which radio broadcasting was regularly launched was the United States in 1920. Above all, however, attention should be paid to the fact that radio and radio broadcasts were extremely important in our lands. The first broadcast was given on February 1, 1925, and a year later, in 1926, Polish Radio began to broadcast a permanent radio program. Local radio stations have soon begun to form, which have often started broadcasting as a result of the initiative of the inhabitants of the regions. And so began the activity of the Warsaw radio station, Krakow radio station or Radio Poznań. On 4 December 1927 a radio station was launched in Upper Silesia. Vilnius Radio and Lviv Radio began broadcasting in 1928 and 1930 respectively. At that time the broadcast of the Lviv's joy wave, whose main characters were Szczecio and Tonicio, was recorded on the pages of history and in the history of Polish radiophony and is mentioned for today's time. Radio as a medium also played a huge role during the war. Through its messages it assisted conspiracy and liberation. It is also necessary to recall the memorable activity of Radio Free Europe - jammed by the party authorities of the Polish People's Republic. During the martial law, radio was also an important factor in underground and liberation activities. In Warsaw, in Wrocław, in Toruń, Świdnik and Puławy, broadcasting of the programme of Radio Solidarity began, which was one of the forms of resistance to the use by the authorities of repression in the form of the decommissioning of NSZZ Solvency. On the occasion of this day, I would also like to wish all radios and broadcasters serving radio stations and working in them the best possible listening and feeling of well done work, which is often also their passion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u637	There was a mistake on my part in voting 56 over point 25, and instead of voting against it, I voted differently. The vote on 13 February 2020 concerned a report by the Health Commission on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u638	In the vote in item 2 of the agenda on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts: - in the vote No 8 on Amendment No 3, the intention was to cast a vote, - in the vote No 18 on Amendment No 14, the intention was to cast a vote, - in the vote No 20 on Amendment 16 and the minority proposal No 2, the intention was to cast a abstention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u639	There was a mistake on my part in voting 56 over point 25. My intention was to vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-13-sejm-05-2.u640	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 5th session of the Polish Sejm. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 2 min 07]]
