ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I shall make a formal request to interrupt the sitting until the points covering the first, second and third reading of three draft laws tabled by the Civic Coalition, including the Senate project, are put on the agenda. We have laws that people are waiting for. These laws are ready, we can work on them, we can do it here and now. You've wasted too much time, gentlemen. Let's do it now. I call upon the rulers sitting here, in the courtroom, and in other rooms: do not disturb us. You knew a lot of things, you did nothing, you didn't tell us the truth. Now it's time to act. really fast. You knew - I accuse you, yes, you did - you manipulated, you brought chaos and you're just cowards. Thousands of people put their lives in jeopardy every day, working without protective equipment, there aren't enough tests, and you haven't done anything. That is why I appeal: let us do it today, let us quickly deal with the laws that Poles are waiting for, because they are really very important. Every day of the corpse accuses you. So don't tell the truth, don't lie, let's get to work today, because these are really important times. Let's not put it off forever. You lost many weeks and didn't help the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u2	Thank you, Marshal. I would remind you that this was not the subject of a meeting between the Bureau and the Senior Convention. We have a Sejm meeting tomorrow, and we will consider it tomorrow. We'll hold you to that - tomorrow. We will consider the formal proposal, Mr. President. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I request that the session be adjourned, that the Seniors Convention be convened and that a resolution be included on the agenda of the first and second readings of the resolution on expressing gratitude to health professionals be introduced. These people put their lives and health at risk every day: medical personnel, nurses, doctors, paramedics, as well as social workers. We would like the Polish Sejm to express its gratitude to them at this particular moment, so we have tabled a draft resolution and we cordially appeal to your marshals to put it on the agenda, so that we can all, in unity, thank all those heroes of the first front fight against the koravirus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u4	Thank you, Member. We are all very grateful to the whole health care service, there is no doubt about it, but you know very well that this is a non-regulatory proposal. Here you go, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome. It's an appetizer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Less procedural disputes, more action. Polish workers, Polish entrepreneurs expect an immediate adoption of the anti-crisis package. We submit our law, the voluntary ZUS, we have submitted an anti-crisis package, a proposal for a minimum salary for all employees, interest-free loans from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, a quick return of VAT, assistance to employees and employers. We need to deal with this situation, not just argue about procedural points. The sooner we accept today, here and now... Let's make use of the fact that the Members are here, let's call a break. It's a government-led anti-crisis shield project. This is a cardboard shield for now, but it can be titanium after making our amendments. And that's what needs to be done. Today, here and now, don't delay it. The Senate has to meet immediately after that, tomorrow's Senate meeting. I call on everyone to adopt today legislation on the anti-crisis package. Without it, our meetings mean nothing to society. We are here today to receive them as soon as possible (the bell) and not to argue with each other. The gratitude of health workers is also needed. The best gratitude will be if they have protective equipment and are not fired. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mr President, you know very well that completely different arrangements were made at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and at the Senior Convention. We all know it has to be done very quickly. That's what tomorrow is for. You have seen very well that today, as a result of the lack of agreement... It's your decision, not ours. ...was impossible. That's why we're just trying to change the rules today. I will call the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention half an hour after the end of today's session. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (Prints No 286 and 286-A). I ask Vice-Marshal Richard Terletki to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Bureau of the Sejm, I shall submit a draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm allowing Members to proceed remotely over the laws. After the introduction by the World Health Organisation of pandemic states around the world, it is necessary to create safe conditions for the functioning of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, the Sejm of the Republic, but also to ensure the safety, protection of the life and health of the Sejm's employees, as well as to protect themselves from the situation when the Sejm gathers here in its entirety and then MEPs travel to their districts... In case there's a virus transfer here, they could be spreaders of this virus all over the country. High Seym! The draft amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which recommends the Sejm Bureau, allows all Members to be consulted remotely, to take part in the vote, but also to take part in the discussion, to submit formal requests, to ask questions, and to deal remotely with committees and sub-committees. I would just like to point out that, at the moment, parliaments across Europe are taking extraordinary precautions, including the European Parliament, and changing their rules. But the Bundestag is working. The Bundestag, too, sir. Mr President, I would very much like to ask you not to disturb me. The quorum has been reduced to 1/4, so your argument is missed. I request that the High House adopt these regulations today so that we can remotely proceed within the next days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As Mr Sobolewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, I am the first I ask of Mr Sobolewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour of expressing my position on behalf of the Law and Justice in connection with this resolution. The draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, contained in print No 286, proposed in full consensus by the Sejm Bureau, concerns the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The aim of this change was to reduce the risk associated with the spread of Coronavirus in Poland. Mr Marshal, the rapporteur, presented the scope of the changes that this resolution would include. In view of the current epidemic situation, it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm which would regulate these matters. I could long justify the need to take such steps and changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, but this is not the time for such speeches. For law and justice, the health and life of Poles is more important than rigid standards of law. You can quote the words "sleep" here. Senior Marshal Cornel Moravian: The good of the nation is over the law. The law that does not serve the nation is lawlessness. Mr President, this is a Fascist rule. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The changes that are proposed, and are included in this printing, adapt the Sejm's rules to the unprecedented situation in which Poland is present, which has not happened before in the contemporary history of our homeland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports these changes and will vote in favour of them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u10	Thank you, sir. Now I ask Mr Borysław Budka, the Civic Coalition. Boris. Boris, of course. I don't know if that's what I said. If so, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Poles! We came here for you because you chose us. We have come because there have been concrete draft laws in this House for several days. This is an extension of social security benefits for you who are taking care of your children today, because schools, kindergartens and daycares are closed. These are projects that release contributions - and not just freeze them - for social security, because you have nothing to pay your taxes. These are projects that ensure the safety of millions of people. This is, among other things. minimum wage for anyone who can't work today. We don't divide people into better or worse sort. We want to help everyone, because that is the role of the state. No Pole, no Polish woman, no businessman, no employer should be affected by this crisis. And we, the parliamentarians, are here to adopt such regulations. [[Applause]] We have proposed 20 billion PLN for health care. This is specific money for personal protective equipment for you, dear doctors, nurses, medical rescuers, who today, under extreme conditions, defend our lives, and unfortunately this government cannot even provide you with basic protective measures. [[Applause]] These are specific measures to buy hospital equipment. These are also concrete measures to ensure that anyone who has come into contact with the coronavirus can be tested very quickly so that we can adopt good patterns of countries that are more effective than Italy is dealing with the coronavirus. However, what does the current majority suggest? The current majority wants us today to deal only with the comfort of the work of parliamentarians. We have been chosen for difficult times. We're here to serve you. We came because millions of you went to work today, that everyone who is at work today expects help from the state, help from us, parliamentarians. We do not turn away from work, for we have been chosen by you and for you. We don't want to work on the Sejm's rules. We want to work on anti-crisis solutions. [[Applause]] Polish workers are being fired today. It is today that other entrepreneurs, other employers, declare bankruptcy. We don't want regular wars. We want to work for you. We showed up at the Seym because we're not cowardly because we're here to work for you in critical moments. And we promise hard work. We will do everything we can to make sure that whatever comes out of this Seym feels responsible for your safety. (Bell rings, applause) Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u12	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We were gathered as parliamentarians in the hour of rehearsal. We are gathered in the sense of responsibility for the state, the constitution, every Polish woman and every Pole. The left was, is and will always be at the disposal of the citizens. We put together draft laws and presented ideas on how to heal today's situation, how to make millions of Polish entrepreneurs feel that they were not left to themselves. We are here because employees across Poland realize that in a few days they may not be paid, and at the end of April there will be millions left without a zloty in their accounts. The Left speaks clearly and clearly about its proposals. The loan instalments are to be withheld: not for 3 months, but for a minimum of 6 or 9 months. We're supposed to lead to a situation where the ZUS is stopped and no one has to pay for it. We want entrepreneurs to be fired from the ZUS. We want you to take responsibility for gas bills, electricity bills, rents. We want to fight for this and we met here today in our sense of responsibility. But it's not just the people who are watching us today who are following what we're doing. It is also the responsibility for the workers and employees of this building, for the thousands of people who are here with us today. Why? I wanted to thank them all for having the courage to come here, because you are, ladies and gentlemen, the most vulnerable today. Thank you for being with us. Your left hand will never forget this effort, as will millions, tens of thousands of doctors throughout Europe and Poland. We will fight for every penny, we will fight for every penny, so that you will be provided with masks and tests in Polish hospitals, so that Polish health care will remember who was with you in the hour of trial. But responsibility is also thinking about Poland, which needs change. Don't be afraid. Polish parliamentarians must work, but they must also have the opportunity to do so. Responsibility dictates that we change the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm so that we can change the law that we want to change, because I believe that the entire opposition and the entire coalition wants to do this, can change it. Today, there is no agreement for us to use the crisis for political quarrels. Today there is no coalition and no opposition. Today there is no government, no politician, no politicians. Today we are all Poles responsible in the name of the Constitution and our mandates for Poland to be Polish to be rescued from this crisis. The left will keep that promise. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u14	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In times of trial, in times of crisis, in times of epidemics, two attitudes are crucial: the attitude of solidarity and responsibility. This is a test for each of us, for each of us, Poles, whether we are aware of the responsibility for ourselves, for our family, for our loved ones. State institutions have failed. Here are a few words of truth addressed to the PiS. You didn't prepare you for the outbreak, for the crisis. Not long ago, the chief health inspector said: the virus is in China, and China is very far away. Turns out they're very close after all. You haven't prepared health care, you haven't prepared patterns of conduct and actions. It's a gigantic neglect. But today we're not here to point out mistakes, just to change the rules of law as soon as possible and to adapt them to help workers and entrepreneurs. The state institutions have not yet passed the exam because they have not prepared us for the crisis, but they have passed the Poles exam because they behaved responsibly, first of all, they have passed the exam of health care workers, nurses, paramedics, pharmacists, lab diagnies, physiotherapists, they pass the exam of health care workers and uniformed officers. We must support them today so that jobs are not lost. There's also a need for solidarity and understanding here, because as I hear from the Platform, she wants to end the wars, and she's looking for opportunities every time... Save it. ...to a political dispute and to politicalize this... This isn't the right way. With kindness, I would like to warn you of going this way. Don't follow. For you, the rules are sacred, not the case of employees and entrepreneurs. Take care of yourself. Poles are the most important to us. Yes, health and life in the first place, workers and entrepreneurs, just like that. You have to accept voluntary ZUS, you have to give interest-free loans, minimum salaries for employees who may already be on unpaid leave, maybe they are already released. Let's all realize that 2 million Poles may lose their jobs. Let's realize that 70% companies can fire employees that they can fall overnight from the smallest to the largest. It's our responsibility. The measure of responsibility and solidarity is also the ability to talk and cooperate today, to lay down conditions, because the uncritical acceptance of what the government is proposing is merely to condemn us to a cardboard shield, and it must be titanium and must be adopted as soon as possible. Tiger without teeth. Today, agreement, cooperation, responsibility and solidarity are needed in the name of the most important goal of protecting health and life, protecting jobs and the Polish economy from armageddon, which is already facing many companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u16	Thank you. I wanted to address Members of the Civic Platform. Mr Grupiński, you are allowing yourself completely inappropriate remarks. You are the only envoys in this room who will huff who are disturbing. That's not true! I hope the Poles, who are watching you now, see it clearly. Once again, sir, I am appealing. Don't argue with me. There aren't many of us in the O.R. Everyone has the right to speak. Please don't disturb me. If you want to ask a question, you'll have a chance. [[Applause]] Your marshal, I said... Don't argue with me, sir. Even the PiS doesn't criticize us. Don't argue. [[Applause]] I invite you to speak with Mr Bosak, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Government members! Gentlemen of the presidents! Chairman of Clubs and Political Parties! We are in a special situation that requires us to be serious, not to shout here in the House. We are in a situation where our country and political class representing our society are at war on three fronts. The first front, of course, is the fight against the epidemic for the health and safety of Poles. The second front, to which the government is preparing, finished work on the laws tonight, and this morning we were to participate in consultations which were postponed to afternoon and evening, is the fight against the crisis for sources of livelihood for Polish citizens and the survival of Polish enterprises. The third front that brought us together here is the fight against the weakness of our country, which turns out to be ineffective and which stumbles over its own legs in order to fight in such a crisis situation. Let us ask ourselves how it happened that we have to meet here in order to update the rules of the Sejm in a crisis, epidemic situation. No one has predicted such a circumstance, no one has prepared a technology system for an on-line discussion. Today we're going to revise the regulations, tomorrow we're going to collid with the limitations of systems that either don't work together, or they don't exist. How did this happen? He is sitting here among us Marshal Kuchciński, who was Marshal of the Sejm in the years 2017 and 2018 when a tender was conducted for a new system of counting votes, a tender which was dismantled after a year of rehearsals, because this system did not work. But they're sitting here. Also former Marshal Schetyn, former Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, who also, when they were in office, did not implement modern systems here, did not propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which we will adopt today. Our attitude is constructive because we are a substantive opposition. We will present amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, amendments to which we want to link these extraordinary rules to the emergency situation. We believe that the suspension of the normal sitting of the Sejm is justified in the event of an emergency. That's what the constitutionalists say, and we agree. We want substantive work, effective, effective, modern. We want this job. We want us to be able to sit legally, make the law that citizens are waiting for. We very much appeal: take into account all of these amendments that we are presenting, amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and let us proceed immediately to the discussion of the anti-crisis shield, and let us move on to the discussion of the laws that the government finished writing tonight. Let us not focus here on shouting out who better or worse said something, because it is the citizens who are completely not interested. The last thing I want to draw attention to. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot tell citizens that they are to stay at home and at the same time force the electoral committees to send tens of thousands of people to the committee for training and to participate in the organisation of elections. Prime Minister, Mr President, if the president or his staff is watching, let's move the election. I'm very appealing for that. Let's not force us to continue working on the election right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members' lives are no more valuable than the lives of the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u18	Thank you very much, thank you, sir. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Sejm Bureau is based on Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set the limit of questions at this point: one for each club and circle and one for each non-member. The question was raised by only one person, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are afraid that we will never meet again during this crisis. Don't be afraid... Not because it's dangerous, just because you don't want to answer questions, you don't want to hear difficult questions, and you don't want to give people information, you don't want to answer. You say the amount of masks you have in Poland is classified information. You say the number of tests is classified information. No tests, no facials. You say it's classified information. Instead of calming people down that you have it, you say it's classified information. You don't have that equipment, and we have a duty to talk. You're talking about reliefs, and the employers are asking when you're gonna give them the VAT. You guys are holding VAT. Will the Prime Minister speak here today and tell you when he will pay back VAT, which is an entrepreneur, and you are simply giving it away? Will the Prime Minister tell you why you made people pay ZUS this month? You could have said, "Stop this ZUS, don't pay, pay your employees." The seym - I am talking to all Poles - is so that we can look at your hands, and the problem with this regulation (the bell) is that if we accept it... Thank you. ...then you'll be unpunished. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u20	Thank you, sir. The Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were very strange words from Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, a couple of people who spoke - that we lied about withholding information about the number of tests. Either you do not listen to the media, or you do not want to listen to them, or you mislead all Poles. I've been talking about the number of tests we've distributed to all the labs for many, many days: 100,000, 200,000, 500,000, masks, tests, gloves. Of course you can not listen to this, you can say that we are misleading Poles. I think the Poles will judge us in this respect. If we're talking about how many tests we've distributed from the labs, we're talking about it regularly: 100,000. The tests have already gone to the lab, another 50 stripes will be introduced tomorrow. There's really nothing here. We're not trying to hide anything, we're not trying to cheat anything. Who said the information was classified? It seems to me that such comments in the situation in which Poland is in today's situation are just a little out of place. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that today's situation, when we are all gathering in this Chamber... I'm looking at this House of Parliament, where we sit within a few feet of each other. Too bad we didn't come to a consensus that we could do it remotely. Some of you wear masks, gloves. Of course, everyone has the right to fear for themselves, everyone has the right to fear because the situation is unusual. And I think that this is the time when instead of discussing partyly, we should discuss politically what someone is accusing of, rather we should discuss how to improve our system, so to direct this system, economic, public health services, private health services, all medical professionals, so that Poles feel safe to introduce such an atmosphere... Not if you're not saying it's gonna be great. Because it's not gonna be great, it's gonna increase the number of sick people, we're gonna have more people dying. It's everywhere. The only thing we can do is limit this number by not coming to places where we don't have to come, not walking on the streets, going to work where it's necessary. Medics are working and risking their health and life, here too Members, government members also, or bus drivers. There are places we need to work. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time that we all work together to develop the best mechanisms that will protect the Polish economy, which will protect all of us, including protection and our health care. Today, as you know, a plane from China has landed with a large transport of personal protective equipment. No institutions, including international institutions, have provided us with personal protective equipment today. Government. We are responsible for what we do here. All of us, I'm not talking about the government here, all of us as a country. And thank you very much to all people of good faith, because there are those who help us, help us all, help hospitals, help doctors, help laboratories, but also help in urban transport, help catering for places that need to work so that we can all get out of this with a defensive hand. Thank you so much for that. I think it is time for us to quickly transpose all the necessary legal acts that are needed for us to function as a state, and I think that thanks to this very rational and responsible attitude, we will be able to function as Poland, as a Polish nation in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u22	Thank you, Minister. Another question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Bosak and I am closing the list because the secretariat did not say that you wanted to ask the question, they did not make it. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Confederation Club, I would like to ask you what the state of technical preparation of the Sejm Chancellery looks like for the organisation of meetings online. If we are to adopt such a scheme and such a scenario and discuss an anti-crisis shield tomorrow in the online formula, it is appropriate that we receive information as to whether there is technical readiness. Question about the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, detailed, related to our amendments: Why the Rules of Procedure exclude the Sejm in the formula on-line participation of experts, social factor in committee proceedings, when the online formula makes it easier and allows you to connect with experts anywhere at any time? With the authority of your marshals on how the proceedings will take place, there is actually no problem that this social factor should be taken into account, and precisely when discussing the shield, especially this voice of economic environments, the social environments could be important to us. So the question is: Why are we trying to rule out a social factor in this amendment of the Rules of Procedure? Is it worth taking into account the Confederacy amendment in order to restore this social factor?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u24	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? Members have come forward. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Borys Budka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We shouldn't be dealing with the Sejm's rules today. Today we should already work on solutions that will save Polish health care, but also for you who are afraid for your jobs, you are afraid for your loved ones. Meanwhile, today's sitting has been designed so that we are about to go home, that you will remain with your fears, your fears, your stay in your homes, or tomorrow you will go to work, and the parliamentarians will go home for their comfort. We were ready to work. We believe that the formula, which was proposed, was unacceptable because it was simply such solutions that your marshal had not prepared before. We make amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, believing what the rulers are saying today: that this is supposed to be a temporary solution. But I want to assure you that no matter how the ruling majority conducts its deliberations, we will not forget you. We're going to report all these demands you're talking about. It cannot be that Polish workers will be divided into better and worse, it cannot be that the employer who has more than nine employees will have other help than the one who employs up to nine. Finally, it cannot be that the Minister of Health comes out here today and does not want to talk about 20 billion PLN. Minister! We are for you, we wanted to help, we just wanted to help the Polish health service, we wanted to allocate money here and now so that you could act better so that you didn't have to exchange other numbers every day when it comes to equipment so that you didn't have to put out fires that are in Polish hospitals every day. I regret that instead of having a substantive discussion about helping Poles and Poles (the bell), we have to deal with the rules of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u26	Thank you. Mr President, I just wanted to remind you, for the record, that we have proposed such a solution in one day, that is, tomorrow, to proceed over all these laws, all the projects, including the amendment of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. It was not your agreement to sit in this manner, and there was no agreement from the Confederation, which is why we are meeting today to change the rules just as a result of your position. There was no consensus, and I regret that, because if this consensus were, we would be at a completely different point today. You wanted to act illegally. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u27	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The left is taking seriously the crisis that we have in the country at the moment, and we believe that Parliament must be able to control the government, and that is why we want to preserve Parliament's ability to function also in a situation where, unfortunately, some of us might be infected and have to be quarantined. Therefore, we believe that the proposal on the possibility of remote voting, the remote holding of meetings of the Lower House of Parliament is an absolutely necessary project. Of course, it is a pity that we did not adopt it before, but unfortunately none of us really expected a pandemic of this magnitude to occur and that we will have to do so at a time when we should adopt laws on the fight against the crisis, against the effects of this crisis. We therefore propose amendments to this draft regulation, which are intended to limit, however, the power of the Marshals of the Sejm. We do not have full confidence in the Law and Justice, and we believe that in a situation where the vote and the sitting take place in a remote form, we must have the possibility of greater consensus. That is why we are proposing an amendment to the article. 198a paragraph 2. We want to change the wording so that the Bureau of the Sejm, by qualified majority and not by the Marshal of the Sejm, decided to hold a meeting of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication - after consulting the Seniors Convention. That's our proposal, one of the ones I'm going to make. We are also concerned about the wording that appears here: the introduction of an epidemic or epidemic state. We want to make it possible for the proceedings to be held remotely only in the event of an epidemic, not in the event of an epidemic. We have a few other amendments that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sorry, but there was no committee meeting, so I urge you, Marshal, that I may make these amendments. There you go. There has been no sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee and we have no other option to present these amendments, so I would like to... I'm already reading the next points. We also propose in the article. 198a add paragraph. The following shall be added: the agenda approved by the Bureau of the Sejm shall not be modified on the day of the meeting of the Sejm. We don't want there to be a dump in here. If the Bureau so decides, the agenda should already be drawn up and should not be amended. Next, in Article. 198a after mouth. 3 we propose to add paragraph. 3a as follows: Model, mode and method of submission of the application referred to in paragraph. 3, defines the Marshal of the Sejm by way of a regulation. We also propose in the article. 198b at the end add the words: which received a positive opinion from the Internal Security Agency. We are talking here about the ICT system in which we will move and how we will proceed at these meetings. Our amendments aim to preserve the security of the deliberations and, as I say, to prevent the creation of some new projects which had not previously been agreed at the Sejm Bureau meeting. Hence our proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u28	Thank you, Mrs President, thank you, but, Mrs President, I would like to say that it was not the rules put forward by the Law and Justice Club, only all the clubs knew these rules much earlier, we adopted it unanimously, so it was time to really... When? That's a lie! There was time to at least at the clubs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, I, of course, accept these amendments... That's what these remote semes are gonna look like. ...but not to let such information go that no one had ever known the rules before, because they didn't. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome. And a corrigendum, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Coalition, several cases. First, of course, a request to check the quorum, whether we have a quorum today, whether we can make all the decisions. We also propose an amendment in order to temporarily limit the possibility of using this instrument by 30 June 2020 and to decide, by a majority of 3/5, to convene the Sejm in this way. We make these amendments and ask them to be accepted. But the most important thing is not technical issues, because they are not very interested in public opinion. The most important thing is what we're going to accept in the anti-crisis shield. We set our terms, sent them to the Prime Minister's office. Please take into account the following matters. Firstly, the remission of taxes and contributions, not only for small businesses, but for those affected by the crisis. Secondly, as soon as possible the VAT refund, because the companies are waiting for this money. Quick credit lines. Helping local governments - this is a key issue. Local governments can't do it without state support because they want to cut property taxes, but they have to be compensated. It is very important that we also introduce a health package, a service package, for health protection. Firstly - this does not necessarily have to be regulated in the package - studies, tests should be done to all suspected of aggravating respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases. This is extremely important. These tests should be more readily available to oncology patients after transplantation. These are the giant problems of patients who don't know how to move in this situation. Here I have a request to the Minister, using this opportunity to make use of this meeting, to inform even pregnant women, oncology patients, how to proceed and where to report. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The issues of agriculture, which have not been raised at first, are finally in the project after our interventions, but must be further developed. Thank you. That's what we're gonna talk about. Let us adopt these solutions in the broadest possible consensus and deal with serious matters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u30	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I formally submit three amendments prepared by the lawyers of the Confederation to the new Sejm rules. This is to limit the use of remote sittings, on-line sittings only to the duration of emergency situations. This is combined with the call for an emergency, for not doing so in instalments, which can in itself be a constitutional delicacy, if emergency instruments are deliberately used without the introduction of an emergency condition automatically linked to the withdrawal of elections by 3 months. The second amendment concerns the regulation of speaking time. The third amendment concerns the admission of the social factor to an online session. I would like to briefly justify this third case in particular. It is symptomatic that the government's anti-crisis package has been first consulted not with economic environments, with business environments, but with journalists for so long. This conference scheduled this morning and cancelled with representatives of the opposition was replaced by a meeting of the head of the development fund, the Minister and the President of the Social Security Office with journalists. This is characteristic, because the whole story of the anti-crisis shield began by posting announcements in the press with information about a virtual amount of 200 billion. Entrepreneurs are waiting to consult them on these proposals. We are pleased that the Confederacy's request for the previous year of voluntary ZUS was partially accepted by the government, partly accepted by opposition parties. It's a big step forward, but it's too small. The government doesn't listen enough to entrepreneurs' voices about how to save them. Instruments such as salary subsidies after 3 or 4 months, because that's how it's gonna work... If we have 2 months of turnover loss, in the third month there will be processing the application, then when will it come to companies? Copying the EU grant system in the event of a crisis is a completely wrong path. That's what they're trying to tell you, Prime Minister. Listen to them. The Confederacy expresses their voice. We appeal: listen to (the bell) entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u32	Thank you, sir. Correct, Marshal. The clubs have spoken. Now there are reports of two Members... Who else? Three. Three Members. Four. I still volunteered, Marshal. Mrs. Barbara Nowacka and Mrs. Daria Gosek Ash, right? This is besides these two people, Mr Nitras, right? I'm closing the list. And a corrigendum. Corrigendum to what, sir? I was mentioned in a statement you didn't understand. I think I understand perfectly. I understand that you have a great desire to say publicly that I do not understand something. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Unfortunately, I regret that you are misleading the public once again. From the very beginning, we have been appealing for two weeks: let's meet and work for Poles. You proposed at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau something absolutely incompatible with the rules of procedure, with the constitution. We asked you, we begged you: let us deal with specific billings. Our opposition at the Bureau meeting was only because we fear that the illegal law will later be questioned by you, that the Social Security Office will take back these benefits, which will be reported today, that if you run out of money in this dubious budget, you will again reach the pockets of Polish taxpayers. There is no agreement that the law should be passed in a way that insults any principle. Thanks to our opposition, we have shown that we can work. We are in different rooms today, ready to work for Poles. And your very stubborn marshal proposes... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...work tomorrow. No. Let's work for the Poles today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u34	I must inform you: I understand exactly what you're saying. You shouldn't have corrected that. Let's get to the questions. Three people checked in. First Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We really want to work. We want to work substantively and we want to work on laws. We also want to allow the temporary possibility of online voting and online sitting. But, Marshal, this is unprepared. You sent us a password and a login in an open text yesterday in one email. Anyone can hack into the server. Anyone can hack into the server. You've set up passwords that decode a 17-year-old child without a problem. Your Marshal, is this how you will ensure the safety of our vote? Some kind of system that anyone can buy at the App Store? We don't take each other seriously. Says the government: we've had so much time, we've prepared everything, we've been working for months. So? In hospitals there are no suits, entrepreneurs have no money provided, people lose their jobs, lack of masks, lack of tests and it turns out that the remote voting system is simply holes and dangerous. Mrs. Marshal! How will you ensure that our vote (the bell) and our participation in the work of the Sejm are absolutely safe because of data protection and the course of the vote? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This meeting is unique and we are working on a solution that will allow the Sejm to work remotely. It is important if we do not want to block the whole state if we want to preserve this important role of parliament, which is looking at the hands of the government. At this exceptional moment, we must pay particular attention to transparency and democracy. So I ask: Why do you not want the marshal to convene such meetings, remote meetings, only with the agreement of the Convention? You're proposing that the Marshal of the Sejm only consult. It is a terrible solution, undemocratic, which can lead to a number of undemocratic actions and irregularities. Therefore, let us respect democracy, respect Polish parliamentarianism, respect citizens and citizens and change this record. And second question: What is the state of preparation of the system for tomorrow's remote deliberations, and what does it look like to ensure the cyber security of this meeting? We know that there are difficulties with this, so we want to know how it (the bell) is shaping at this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u38	Thank you, Member. And Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u39	We as parliamentarians are being filled with daily information from people, requests from citizens. It is our duty to pass this on to you as rulers. Our relationship is that the Prime Minister goes out on TV, tells and doesn't answer questions. We can't ask you a question. When it comes to what people have to say, you can't even hear it because no one can tell you. You say we're sitting in different rooms today. No, the parliamentarians of all the clubs are sitting in this building, and you've put PiS MPs in a completely different building. They're asking to check the quorum because we don't know how many of us there are. Your marshal pretends he doesn't have it, he doesn't hear it. We're afraid of manipulation. We don't know if you guys are gonna abuse the law that you're doing to yourself right now, whether or not you're legally admitting it. The Prime Minister has a chance to answer about VAT, about PIT, about when you give people VAT, which is due to them. You're not even trying to answer that question. If these regulations pass, we fear that you will not be Poles... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. ...no one will be answered by you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u40	Thank you, sir. I assure you, we have a quorum. After the break, I'll give you the count. I am declaring a recess because there are so many amendments to this regulation... How long? I'll tell you in a minute. Several amendments. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen... And the request for a quorum check? Yeah, just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed at second reading. In view of the fact that, at the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote after the report of the amendments tabled has been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 15.40. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 05 hours 16 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda... [[Game in the O.R.]] But you're welcome now... Mr President, can I ask you to be serious right now? Yes, of course. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the draft resolution. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the third reading. Speakers of the Secretaries, please add your vote to the votes cast in the designated Chamber. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep your hands raised during the vote for a period of time allowing for the calculation of votes. Your Marshal, formal motion. Here you go, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since we are voting in such a special way, I ask that we all know how many Members are in the Chambers of the Sejm. I therefore request, under the Rules of Procedure, that the quorum be converted and that the number of Members presently be determined in the Chambers in each of the Sejm's buildings. It is crucial that we know whether the Sejm is able to make this decision at all. Of course, in time, as it will be counted... We're numbered. ...the Minister can answer questions about how much equipment is available, whether rescuers are safe and whether the number of tests is appropriate, because we are still waiting for answers to these questions. Did the Intelligence Agency really warn the government that the threat of pandemics is so serious? They say these warnings were addressed to the government in January and were ignored. I think it would be worthwhile for the Prime Minister or one of the ministers to reply at that time, but now I ask the marshal to give me the number of Members in each Chamber in the Sejm. Thank you very much. With a formal application, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u42	Mr 368 Members are in all rooms. There's a quorum. Mr President, let me remind you that when we have a normal session of the Sejm, you do not go on the stand and ask how many Members have signed the attendance list. But then I can see. Good. Thank you very much. Your marshal, with a formal motion. Here you go, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u43	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to ask for an answer, even the shortest, but concrete, for the degree of preparation of the Sejm Chancellery to be held on-line from tomorrow. If we are going to vote today, we need to know, because this decision depends on a lot - either the paralysis of the process of adopting an anti-crisis shield, or the smooth conduct of the proceedings on this matter tomorrow. So that I would ask you to remain silent on this matter and give us information, whether by the relevant employees of the Sejm Registry or by the Marshal himself, if he is informed on this matter. Thank you very much. Your marshal, with a formal motion as secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We'll celebrate in a special way. In a special way, we are also going to present the results of this vote to you. Mrs Marshal, I have received forms which, as a secretary, but also as a one-member scrotal committee, I am to fill out, but I would ask the marshal to provide me with a list of presences from all the halls so that I can tell you - and give your marshal to read the results of the vote - that in fact this number of people is present in these halls and participates in the vote. My second request is that here on the screens in a rotating way can display images from those rooms in which Members will vote. This is essential for us to be able, also as those who vote, to know that our fellow parliamentarians are actually voting in these chambers as well. If your marshal considers it appropriate, I am also at your disposal to pass and with the other secretaries to establish the presence of these Members in the Chamber. [[Applause]] Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u46	Mr Secretary, you will, of course, receive the protocols from each room and we can switch the video to the voting room if necessary. What about the attendance lists? You will receive, including the attendance list, the minutes you will receive. If you want a attendance list, we can also deliver a attendance list. Of course, in a moment I will provide all the information about this system and tomorrow's sitting, after voting on these amendments, so that you all know how it will look. I just wanted to start by pointing out one thing, sir. If you have read these rules - it is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that Members who wish to participate in the deliberations here, in Parliament, have the right to do so. It's not a duty. It's a law. If they wish to benefit from this, they will be placed as they are today in other rooms, and those who cannot attend Parliament for various reasons will be able to do so remotely. We move to the vote on Amendment 1 to Article. 198a, which consists in giving a new sound to the mouth. 1. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 2 and 3 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, will raise your hand and press the button... sorry, he will raise his hand. We won. It's gonna take a little longer, because there's more people in those halls, so it's gonna take a while, at a slower pace. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote. I would also like to ask Members of the Secretaries, on the basis of the results of the vote, to forward the summary minutes. 370 Members took part in the vote. 151 votes against, 214 abstentions, 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 2 to Article. 198a, which consists in giving a new sound to the mouth. 1. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? You haven't counted the vote, Mr. Secretary. Again. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 371 Members took part in the vote. 136 votes against, 218 abstentions, 17 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 3 to Article. 198a paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 371 Members took part in the vote. 371 voted in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 4 to Article. 198a consisting of the addition of paragraph 1. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 370 Members took part in the vote. 172 votes, 198 against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 5 to Article. 198a, which consists in giving a new sound to the mouth. 2. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 367 Members took part in the vote. 170 voted in favour, against - 197, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 6. 198a paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Just raise your hand, there's no button. Excuse me. Just raise your hand. Force of habit. But me, for example. I pushed it. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 367 Members took part in the vote. 170 for, 197 against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 7. 198a consisting of the addition of paragraph 1. 2a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment would like to raise your hand. The left, the approved agenda cannot be... Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. How much longer? 369 Members took part in the vote. 172 - for, 197 - against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 8. 198a consisting of the addition of paragraph 1. 3a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment would like to raise your hand. Your marshal, but it says here that you are to issue it under regulation. Can the Marshal of the Sejm issue regulations? I don't think so. We're voting. Yeah, I guess so. I'm voting, but I'm having second thoughts. The Marshal's making arrangements. The regulations are the law... What a mess we've been through. Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're gonna be a marshal who's gonna issue regulations. I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. It was an obvious mistake, it was an order, not a regulation. I'm sorry, it's not an obvious mistake. This is a mistake... It's just a bad amendment, and we voted it out. The best of the best. Parliamentarians. A coalitioner's gonna help. He's your coalitioner. 367 Members took part in the vote. 367 was for, no one was against, no one stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In view of the fact that it is rightly pointed out that Amendment 8, it should be said that the Marshal of the Sejm is issuing an order, not a regulation, the Legislative Office, with which I had just contacted, will receive such a disposition from me to change it. But I'm just gonna ask the applicant if... Shortly, sir. It was supposed to be an order, not a regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! There's a document we filed. This is an obvious mistake. There's an order in the document we filed, so there was an error in the description of the recipe. I'm putting this together for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-26-sejm-08-1.u48	Thank you very much, thank you, sir. Thank you. We move to the vote on Amendment 9. 198b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. Mr. Chairman's out. The vote is adjourned. Is this gonna work tomorrow? Is that what you're thinking now? Your marshal, will it be possible to rotate? 367 Members voted. 170 for, 197 against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move on to the vote on Amendment 10 on the new wording of the Article. 198f. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment would like to raise your hand. Confederation for extending speaking time. Please, one more time. We're voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] 367 Members voted. 134 was for, 197 against, 36 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move on to the vote on Amendment 11 on the new wording of the Article. 198j. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 12 and 13 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand. If you'd voted... two amendments would have fallen off. If you'd pulled the amendment, they'd be out, too. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. We will vote on our amendments to your package and we are all in favour. Your marshal, what time do we start tomorrow? Do you know yet? 366 Members took part in the vote. 134 - for, 202 - against, 30 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 12. 198j consisting in giving a new sound of mouth. 1. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 13. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise their hand. Who's against it? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, you've got to be kidding me, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's holding back? One more. I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. Mr. Marshal, one-and-a-half. M, the Minister's recommendation. 362 Members voted. 158 was for, against - 204, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a break because we have some kind of malfunction in one of the rooms. We will either remove it immediately, or the Members will move to the room next door. So just a moment, a few minutes of pause and patience. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. We move to the vote on Amendment 13. 198j paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 370 Members voted. 370 was for, no one was against, no one held back. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We move to the vote on Amendment 14 by adding an article. 198n. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment would like to raise your hand. No, no, no. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. Those amendments are 15? Christopher, is 15 there? 361 Members voted. 163 - for, 194 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the last amendment, Amendment 15. We are voting on it. It shall consist of the addition of an article. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment would like to raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Was the PiS behind the amendment? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. It's not a good idea to start tomorrow at hours. 11. Madam, you take responsibility for your children and for whom you give your password and login to your computer and to your mail. Your marshal, are we voting on formal proposals now or tomorrow? Are we voting tomorrow? Your Marshal, request this hour. 12 tomorrow, or the Member won't make it. So now a minute to explain why we're against it. Your marshal, now the whole thing, right? 365 Members voted. 351 was for, against - 11, 3 abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 286 and No 286-A, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise his hand. That's not what we agreed... Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask Members of the Secretaries to calculate the results of the vote and to forward the summary minutes. 368 Members voted. 250 voted in favour, 104 voted against, 14 abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Your Marshal, could you repeat the results? 368 Members voted. 250 votes against, 104 votes against, 14 abstentions. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 26 March this year. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 27 March 2020 at 3 p.m. 11, but at the request of Members, the possibility - after the meetings of the Seniors Convention and the Sejm Bureau - is considered to be even an hour. 12 or 13. At the request of the Members. Following meetings of the Bureau and the Convention, this information will be communicated to the Members, as will information on the attempt to use the tablets and to vote remotely. You will have the information provided. Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, I repeat, until 3 p.m. 11, with the possibility that it will start at 3 p.m. 12 or 13. We will know that after the Convention and Bureau meetings. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 16]]
