ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Dear Senators, located in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed with a vote aimed solely at establishing the list of senators currently attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted and so many are attending the sitting at the moment. [[Voting No 9]] There is no madness, but the quorum is assured. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: second reading of the draft law amending the Law and consider it as point twenty-four; this is Article. 37a on doctors; second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of August agreements and consider it as item twenty-five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Thank you very much. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we will begin with the examination of paragraph seven: the law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the years 1939 and 1956. We will then proceed with the examination of the Ombudsman's information. After hearing the Ombudsman's information, we will return to dealing with the items in order of order. In view of this order, please allow me to welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, with the accompanying team and the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic, Mr Andrzej Dera, with the crew. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. Let me remind you that the text of the law is contained in print No 164 and the report of the committee In print No 164 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 30 July, the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was examined in 1939 and 1956. The bill was introduced by the President of the Republic of Poland. Following the first reading of the draft at its meeting on 16 July 2020, the Parliament sent the draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. At the stage of the work, the following changes were made to the draft: the condition of Polish citizenship was waived at the time of deportation or deportation to the Socialist Union of the Soviet Republics on which the granting of the money benefit was conditional; the possibility of payment of the benefit was also granted to an account in the cooperative savings and credit register; the person concerned was given the opportunity to submit an application for payment of the benefit in the country of residence to the bank account of that person abroad and the changes were made of a precise nature. The purpose of this law is to enable the right claims of Polish citizens sent or deported to the Soviet Union in 1939 and 1956, who so far have not been compensated for their suffering. The Act provides for the granting of a cash benefit to those persons in proportion to the duration of their stay at exile or deportation in the USSR and also lays down the rules, amounts and modalities for granting that benefit. The Act provides that this benefit will be granted to persons who have been obtained under the Act of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war repression and post-war periods by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. According to this law, the persons concerned are to submit applications. For each month of your stay in exile you will receive PLN 200, that is a one-off benefit, but the amount paid may not be less than PLN 2 000 400. In the course of the legislative work, according to the opinion of the chief legislator, the law did not raise any substantive legislative objections and was adopted. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, here's the question: how many beneficiaries are there gonna be? Was there any mention at the committee meeting of how many beneficiaries of this positive change that President Andrzej Duda is proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u5	I don't remember a specific number being given on the committee. I think Minister Dera will be able to answer that. Somehow I missed that number. According to the information I've been seeing, it's almost $8,000, but I'm not sure... No, I think it's too small a number.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u6	The question is Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u7	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Senators present on site and remotely! Minister! I would like to ask the senator if she was at the committee's meeting about the fact that documents, applications can also be submitted through diplomatic institutions, in particular consular institutions. It is very important that Poles, especially those who are stuck in the East, have the opportunity to make such requests through consular posts. As I recall, it was mentioned in the committee and it was confirmed, but it is worth that such information should also appear in public space. So that I ask the senator to confirm this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u8	At the committee meeting, there was talk of the possibility of such requests being made through consulates. It was also said that people living somewhere on, so to speak, a deep exile could then expect that representatives of the Polish authorities would direct to them with the possibility of providing assistance. Yeah, that's what she said. The next issue that was discussed at the committee's meeting was that there were protests or requests concerning those who had been sent before, in the years 1936, 1939, because it was said that the period covered by this law began in 1939, because this was about the aggression of the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics on Poland. But the Poles were sent in earlier centuries, because the shipments were actually since the 19th century, and this law covers only this period since the war, since the last World War II.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. This bill was introduced by the President. Mr Andrzej Dera has been authorised to present the President's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u10	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am honored to be able, on behalf of President Andrzej Duda, to present a draft law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I will say at once that the number of people who may be the beneficiaries of these statutory decisions is about 22,000, less than 22,000. This figure can of course not be fully determined, because unfortunately they are already elderly people, who are well over 80 years old, these are those who were children at the time, because only such people have lived to see today. So we're talking about people who are, like I said, 80 and more years old, and every month these people are just less. We really wanted the work on this law to be done relatively quickly, because then the number of these people can be as large as possible for a given moment, and if these work were to be extended, then these people would simply be less. The total cost of this law is estimated at PLN 300 million, as estimated. The average duration of these people's stay on the screens, that is 66 months, as I say: the average of. So, how easily to calculate, in most cases this one-off benefit will be paid in the amount of 13 thousand PLN with a small hook, that is so averaged. Of course, in some cases it will be a longer period, in some cases shorter, but, as the senator said, this period will be proportional, except that it will not be less than PLN 2 000 400. I would also like to tell the senators immediately that the formalities are kept to a minimum. These people are registered with the Veterans' Office, so just a simple request, an indication of the account or the form of payment will suffice. "Whether through mail or on account" And sign up. This is enough because this period of stay is already documented, these people are already registered, they have veteran benefits. This is about this one-off reparation. I talked to the Sibirak community, which is why I know that this environment isn't being perceived as some kind of reward for them being there. It is supposed to work so much more honorably, on the basis that Poland has not forgotten about them. Let me remind you that in the case of those who suffered as a result of Nazi aggression, the Germans somehow contributed to compensation. The Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation was established and funds were paid to those who suffered during World War II. However, Russia, as the heir of the USSR, does not accept in any way in its activities... in no way wants to contribute to compensation. Well, in fact, money should be paid by the Russian Federation, but we can't count on it. So that this is about the fact that this is such a gesture of the Polish state towards those who suffered as a result of the unfolding. Their childhood was a terrible childhood. I don't want to talk about the details here anymore, because anyone who knows the story knows what horrible moments were especially experienced by those children whose siblings, parents died, who actually survived miraculously, were suffering hunger, because there was trouble, etc. Today it's so symbolic. And these people treat it that way, symbolically, for making amends for what they've been through in their lives just because they were Poles because that's the reason. I'll also go straight to the date. This date, 1939, is due to legal and historical conditions. Well, as the senator said, it was actually beginning with the bar confederation, which was going on through the January uprisings, etc. I don't want to go back to history. And why are we talking about the 1939 period? Because this is about the aggression of the Soviet Union against Poland on September 17th. The Russians systematically sent Poles to Siberia in connection with Stalin's order, recognizing them as enemies only because they were Poles. Poles were deported, there were various waves of deportation, it is estimated that about 1.5 million people were thus sent to Kazakhstan, Siberia, in various parts of the Soviet Union. Expanding this... Well, indeed, there are also registered people who got there in 1936 or 1937, but here is the basic problem. These are not people who were deported from the territory of the Second Republic, but from the territory of the First Republic, or from the former Kresów. These are people who were Poles, but were deported from the Soviet Union. So that it has nothing to do with aggression, war compensation, etc. That's why we didn't want to expand it. It's as adopted as in the Veterans Act. In addition, the date 1939-1956 is passed through all the legal acts that include this group of combatants. Among this group of combatants, as we know very well, are also those who have been through the hell of Sibir. So that's so much about completing the justification that you have in your senate materials.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. I see Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor has signed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the President's Chancellery's representative regarding the bill under review. Under this law, in the event of the death of the person concerned, does the benefit be passed on to the spouse or children? I ask because in the 1991 Act it was in the article. 8 such a provision of recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed. Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u13	I will answer in this way: this benefit is granted to persons who have the status of a combatant and live. So that there's no such thing as the heirs of these people can perform... This is a witness to those who have passed the Golgotha of the East and who live, who meet the legal conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u14	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. This initiative is another positive initiative by President Andrzej Duda, for which we thank you. This symbolic witness will be granted in the amount of... Here we have this information: the cash benefit will be granted once in the amount of PLN 200 for each month of the period subject to the repression referred to in Article 1939. 2 point 1 of the Act, however, will not be lower than PLN 2 thousand 400. So the minimum threshold is PLN 2,000 400. As I understand it, the upper threshold is gone. The amount here will depend on the number of months during which the person was in exile. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u16	Yes, exactly, Mr. Senator. The minimum threshold is so that this benefit is not absurd, let's call it that. 200 PLN or 400 PLN. I don't know if there's ever been a case like this, because just being transported, coming back... It's been months. We also wanted to set a threshold like this, I'd say dignity, so it wouldn't be... This threshold is set in relation to the level of the lowest pension. This is the threshold of dignity. Of course, there's no upper threshold. The upper threshold is set on a date. We settle this for the period between 1939 and 1956, as I said earlier. All the data on the Sibiraks are in the office, we know the periods of residence of those who have such permissions. As I said, this average is 66 months, but of course there are people for whom this period was longer. It is known that there are people who have been there for a shorter period, and people who have been there longer. Everyone, as stated in the Act, will have this benefit paid in proportion to the period of stay at the exile.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u17	You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question relates primarily to the text of the Act itself. It's about the subject range. Well, there is a requirement in the text that a person who seeks such an allowance or, I apologize, such a witness should be a Polish citizen. But there are possible situations, that someone was sent, suppose, to Siberia, but after various, let's call it, perturbations landed in the wider West or, even worse, remained in the East. He does not have Polish citizenship at the moment, and he has gone through the same gehenna as those who returned after the delivery, after the wanderers to our country. The question is... I'm not talking about making an amendment to the bill now, because it's about getting the bill into effect as soon as possible. She's right, and time plays a big role here. But after a while wouldn't it be worth extending the scope of the subjective law to these groups of people? Of course, they would have to prove that they were sent to Siberia. Wouldn't that be advisable, in your opinion? That's the first question. The second question concerns the scope of the subject matter in another aspect. Well, right now, we're sort of leveling things out, I'd call it a long-term thing. Namely, those who were sent to the East have symmetrically what those sent down, deported to forced labor by Germany, by the Third Reich. There's some sort of insymmetry in the Veterans Act. The combatants, or, in fact, those who have been subjected to military repression and who have the same powers as the combatants, are included in those who, for political, religious, national reasons, have been on force in the Soviet Union, but not those who were in Germany. The question is, do you not think that this should be evened out, e.g. add to the law on combatants They're being deported to the Soviet Union, deported to forced labor in Germany? The effect would be that there would be full symmetry in this area. We'd just have-- let's call it that. Although we should not be ashamed here and your aggressors, mostly the Soviet Union, that we would have a clear conscience because we care about our citizens. These are two issues concerning the subject matter. The other one's a little wider, like, next door.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u19	Dear Senator, As far as citizenship is concerned, the state as representatives of the legislative authority is creating laws that concern the citizens of Poland. We don't have the power to give certain powers to people who have different citizenships. However, sometimes we can create some rules that other citizens can benefit from, but this is a relatively rare case. We've been checking, and I've even personally checked what it's like to be a citizen. When I was in Canada, I met the sibiracs at the veteran's house in Toronto, and I talked to them. They have Polish citizenship because you couldn't pick up... I mean, they weren't legally denied this citizenship, but that's the only way to take away anybody's citizenship. And these people have Polish citizenship. So that those people with whom I met in the West have Polish citizenship. Of course, the value of this money will be completely different for people who live in Toronto or in the United States, and for those Poles who live on the east side of the country is just another value of money. But in the sense of witnessing it will be the same. There was one case involving people who left Poland in 1968... There are legal disputes over whether or not they were deprived, because then there was an act to restore this citizenship... I can assure you that every person... Those people who felt like Poles and were Poles had an opportunity Even within the framework of these 1968 regulations, they have Polish citizenship. So there are no formal obstacles here. This law includes persons who registered in the Polish office, who are combatants within the meaning of today's Polish law. Well, it's hard to imagine extending this solution to people. I'm getting to the other point. Which, I don't know, have other citizenship, aren't registered at all, etc. The number of people involved is unknown. Well, that would be opening up another range, a very indeterminate, difficult to implement and costing our budget, between you and me... As regards the issue of German deportation, as I said at the outset, Germany, as legal successors after the Nazi times, felt responsible in this respect and allocated funds to those who were in concentration camps who were on forced labor. Such persons have received, or at least had the opportunity to receive funds from such a fund. As far as the provisions of this law are concerned, we are talking about people who could not be compensated in any way for their shipment to Siberia or Kazakhstan. These people had the possibility, the legal possibility, but these had no possibility, because the Russian side, as I said before, as if it did not accept, did not admit it, although in the case of international case law, it was recognized in Nuremberg that forced shipments, deportations were a crime against humanity. Still, they don't accept, they won't admit... Consequently, these persons are in no way able to obtain any compensation for the great harm and suffering that they suffered as a result of these deportations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u20	You ask Senator Janusz Gromek, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Very important... We are dealing with the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. So let's not worry about the fact that the people who were in Germany This was said by the government's representative, and some compensation was received. I don't think there's any need to elaborate on that, because... And the sibirak community is waiting for that money. But a short question: is it true that Lech Kaczyński's presidency was offered 400 PLN for 1 month? Maybe I'll say it a little harshly, but let's vote it out as soon as these people are alive. Because they're waiting for that saving money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u22	Thank you. Yes, as far as historical issues are concerned, the first project was in 2008. Then President Lech Kaczyński reported such a project. It was then repeated in 2012. The third project was submitted in 2018. And that's the fourth approach. And that's why I called in the Seym so that we wouldn't discuss the question of who... because everyone here could have done it much earlier and then a lot more people would have received these benefits. But for all sorts of reasons, I don't want to go in today, so to speak, into history, wondering why it happened the way it happened. Because these are facts. It's history today. Now we are talking about an initiative, which, unlike the previous three attempts, has a great chance of achieving a successful outcome for the law to enter into force. There's money in the budget, we have the government's assurance that the funds are in the budget, they'll be paid. Of course, you could consider the amounts. But as I talked to the sibiraks, they didn't even insist on any higher amounts, they said that the amount here didn't play that role. It's more about this symbol, it's about making amends in more moral than financial terms. For, as they have said, no money will give up this suffering, the loss of the loved ones, what they had to survive in the years of their mission to Siberia. So what we're talking about here today has a more symbolic dimension. And so it was accepted in the Polish Sejm, that there were no disputes about height, any trips in relation to... Because each of the previous governments, and they were represented by all the groups that are in the Polish Parliament today, could have done so much earlier, many more people would have benefited then. But let's respect those who are still alive. And hopefully, as soon as possible, they will receive the benefit they deserve. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u24	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Minister Dera that this witness is, of course, symbolic and long-awaited by this environment. When you talk to the Sibirak community... If we consider how traumatic their memories of this period are, then of course it is only regrettable that the bill we are discussing here is only now. But of course, apart from the fact that we are talking about a law that has a symbolic dimension in terms of environmental satisfaction, we are also talking about the support of specific people. And therefore, I have a question for the Minister. I am no longer concerned with the amount of the benefit. Of course, I would prefer it to be higher, especially since the group mentioned here is relatively not that large. But did the state, when preparing the project, consider adding any additional facilities, facilitations, some environmentally beneficial solutions to the bill? There are different solutions, e.g. Veterans may be facilitated in the use of health care, additional travel relief by means of communication may be higher than only due to age. Because we're talking about a group that's already senior. You can introduce some facilitations, financial facilities, communication facilities for carers of those who are disabled. Did you carry out this analysis? And is there any chance, even if not now, that in the future, that the catalogue of these benefits for sibiraks would be extended by any additional? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u25	Mr. Senator, High Izbo, as far as benefits under the Veteran Act are concerned, I want to assure you here that those people who were sent to Siberia are veterans, so they have all the rights under this law, just like all the other veterans. Sybirates are also included in all these discounts and medical conveniences. And the catalogue of benefits is statutory, so it is only up to the Polish parliament whether this catalogue will be extended. But as far as this group is concerned, in terms of all these allowances, benefits, etc. She is treated just like all other combatant groups. There's no need to level things out here. This is only about this one-off compensation for this period. Because they in no way, as I said, compared to people on the side of the Nazi invader... who had some compensation... This part of the Polish society, which was transported to Siberia, to Kazakhstan, did not have any such benefits. This is just about making up for this, this one-off payment of funds, the cash that is a certain reparation. Well, I talk about it all the time in moral terms, in terms of moral redress. So that, Senator, I can assure you that the benefits for this group are the same as for all other combatants in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you again about citizenship, actually. The cash benefit will be granted to persons who have Polish nationality on the date of the application for the benefit. Well, we know that a lot of sibirians live outside the country. I'd like to ask what happens if someone does. 'Cause there's probably cases like this. .Double citizenship. Will such ones be entitled to this witness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u28	Yes, Mr. Senator, they will be entitled to it because they have Polish citizenship. The fact that they have dual citizenship does not cause any repercussions. They have Polish citizenship, they are registered in the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, so this witness is simply due to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. As I can see, there are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Thank you very much.]] I'd like to inform you that there's a government representative in the courtroom. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Oh, there's no government representative. So I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Janina Sagatowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! This bill is a very important step to remedy the harm caused by our various oppressors, the harm that marks our tragic fate. It is involved in such activities as earlier acts on repatriation or the Polish Charter, in which we have just tried to correct these harms done by the Soviets. That's what's weird about this bill. Not only for me, but especially for the repatriates' communities, it is unfortunate that this period has been narrowed down, it has been assumed that this benefit for those sent by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will apply to the 1939-1956. The Minister mentioned In answer to questions, too, such a thought came to mind. It is about the Sibirians, the people sent to the Soviet Union and Kazakhstan, and yet, surprisingly, by such a record, by such a temporary limitation, many repatriates will not be able to benefit from it. Why? The largest lands, those from the area of the former Marchlewszczyzna, are from the period of operation of the Polish 1937-1938. Those communications from the border area were about those who now... Some of them have already returned on the way of repatriation, some of them are trying to do so. We know how difficult it is to repatriate Poles for various reasons. It's a good thing she's being run. The repatriation bill has been improved but unfortunately it takes a while. These Poles feel hurt. They come to me, to my office, even from various remote parts of Poland, and say that they are deeply disappointed and surprised that they were not included here, they were deprived of these benefits, as if they were excluded from this law. According to the Repatriates Association of the Republic of Poland, a group of these older people already count This is the estimate of about 1 thousand 400 people. These are the oldest repatriates. So? They meet all the requirements of the Act: they are regarded as combatants by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, they have the decisions of this office confirming their stay on exile and are citizens of the Republic of Poland. And we're just giving them the benefit of this bill... We're talking about how it's kind of a reparation. Here we say: "Let's hurry to love people, they leave so quickly." Yeah, they're leaving so fast. But this group, the most affected during the deportation period, is about to be completely ignored. And I think that we In particular, since the Law on repatriation came out of the Senate in 1999 etc. and that we take care of Poles in the world We cannot exclude this group from the benefits of this law. It is already a small group and this is the last bell to correct the harm and suffering of these children and these exiles. Therefore, I am placing an amendment on the hands of your Marshal. An amendment which refers to the title of the Act. In the title of this law, I propose that the words "to be replaced by the authorities" be replaced by the words "to be deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics." So it will be deported by the authorities of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. There's a difference. We give in this bill an expression of who deported these people. The authorities. No, because it was the authorities of the Socialist Union that deported the Republics there. That's an offer. And the next amendments are the consequence of the date entry. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the I propose replacing the period with the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of 1936 to 1956. However, I ask the High House to include this group sent to Kazakhstan. Please, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u31	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By expressing appreciation for the project and believing that we think together or identically on this issue, like Senator Sagatowska, I would like to argue that this law should include a group of more than 1 000 people with Polish citizenship, it is very important: having Polish citizenship at the moment, which in childhood were the victims of Polish action carried out in Marchlewszczyzna, i.e. in areas adjacent to the Second Polish Rzeczpospolita. It was in fact an identical action, which was continued after the aggression of the Soviet Union to the territory of the Second Republic. Identical motives were decided by belonging to the Polish nation, i.e. identification with the Polish people. On a large scale, the number of victims is counted on nearly 200,000 people and is also known on a global scale not only by the efforts of Polish historians, but also by Timothy Snyder's very famous work, which also influenced European and American public opinion. It would be a misunderstanding if we were to deal with Polish citizens... Because I repeat once again: and in the amendment by Senator Sagatowska, and in my amendment, identical, i.e. the draft amendments are about a small group of people who today have Polish citizenship and were persecuted for the same reasons, as part of identical operations... So there is the identity of fate, the identity of the situation in comparison with the group sent and deported after 1939. In fact, the argument that these people were not citizens of the Second Republic of Poland is to be used for extending the circle of beneficiaries because we could not help them. [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] We could not help them, and they were persecuted because they were Poles. The authorities of the Second Republic could not help them, there were no instruments for this. This was the same situation as the persecution after 1939. Well, I'm not talking about that the question of borders of the Second Republic of Poland was just weighing on. It was a community that was hopeful to the end. At least part of this community had it. That it will be located in independent Poland, and that is why it has preserved Polish culture. And yet in the Constitution, so to speak, we have manifested responsibility for the entire national community. I absolutely agree that today only legal solutions that concern Polish citizens should be considered, but I note that here we are dealing with the identity of the situation, the identity of fate and Polish citizenship. I therefore make similar amendments, even identical to those of Senator Sagatowska. This is a group of about 1,000 people, so many people would be able to document their rights under the provisions of this law. It would be a misunderstanding if we simply deviated from the principle of equality here. Well, that would be a waiver from the principle of equality. I repeat: identity of fate, identity of situation, Polish citizenship. It was the same fate, maybe even worse, because we were in no way able to help these people. And their attachment to Polishness is huge because these people returned to Poland. These people returned to Poland and are citizens of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. I'm handing the amendments over to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Well, I don't see the other senators wanting to speak. I inform you that Senator Mariusz Gromko, Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska have submitted their speeches to the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Janina Sagatowska and Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. Would the President's representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to comment on that. Well, I wouldn't want such a misconception that these people were excluded. No, they weren't ruled out because they met the statutory criteria. The point is that this benefit will be paid to them for the period 1939 to 1956. All the laws in Poland define the status of combatants, and those people who were told about by the senator and the senator have the status of combatants. So it is not that they are excluded, that they are deprived of anything. No, this benefit will be granted to all persons who are registered and comply with any statutory criteria. The argument is whether to include this earlier period or to limit itself to that period, which is set out in the Act. It's about the two-year period, because that's all you can argue about here. Actually, I've already told you that they were... Well, historical facts can't be denied. As the senator said, it was the premier of the former border of the Second Republic of Poland, it was the former territories of the First Republic. Indeed, Poles lived there, but in a formal sense they were not Poles, they did not meet these criteria, they did not live in the territory of the Second Republic. As a result of aggression... [[They were Poles...]] Well, they were Poles in a national sense, and I'm talking about a formal sense. They didn't have citizenship at the time. Of course, they were displaced earlier because the Soviets were preparing for what followed in 1939. Besides, the whole Soviet policy was to mix the different national environments together so that these people, in short, could not live in their former places of residence so that they would be scattered in different parts of the Soviet Union. This is how national pursuits were broken down. So that's what I wanted to do here. It is up to the House to decide whether this will be extended, but I would like to make it clear that none of those who have been mentioned here will be deprived of this benefit. These persons meet the statutory criteria. The same would be bad for a change in the fact that it wasn't in the territory, but by... well, that record in the bill would make it practically... Please note that we are... But there's a difference, maybe so, but there's a difference if we tell you where they were transported, and if we tell you who caused them to be transported. It's all about the Soviet Union, and that was a huge territory at the time. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Japan was not sent...]] Well, they were only sent to the area they were in control of, that's obvious. So if we say that they were deported or sent to the territory of the Soviet Union, it is not necessary to say by whom, because the whole matter concerns decisions made by the Soviets, and they should pay for it, not by the Polish government. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Let me put it this way: I would really suggest leaving this record, which is, also for other reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because applications of character have been submitted... I'm sorry, I understand there are no other questions... Oh, now it's not a question stage, I'm sorry. I understand that the Minister has already completed his speech. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for human and civil rights in 2019. The text of the information is provided in print No 126. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of the information at its meeting on 17 June 2020. I would like to welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome, Mr. Spokesman. Please take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u36	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, On the basis of the article. 212 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the honour to present to the High House a report on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019 as well as on the status of respect for human rights. In today's plenary session of the Senate, I am accompanied by Mr Stanisław Trociuk, Deputy Ombudsman, and Ms Katarzyna Jakamowicz, Director General at the Office of the Ombudsman. Since this is my last annual report, due to the end of my term, I would like to reflect not only on the events concerning human rights of the last year but also on the summary of my entire term of office. The seventh term of office of the Ombudsman was for a period special to human rights and the shaping of the contemporary image of Poland. The last 5 years have characterized intense changes concerning the system of the Republic of Poland, understanding of human rights, but also the conditions and comfort of life of the citizens of the Republic. These legal and social changes have affected both the performance of the Ombudsman's tasks and the way in which he performs his duties. There is no doubt that the most important political events during this period were the presidential elections in May 2015 and then the parliamentary elections which took place in October 2015. As a result, the Law and Justice were given the opportunity to rule on their own and thus to implement the main points of the electoral programme. From this point on, three fundamental trends of change can be distinguished, which affect and affect the respect of the rights and freedoms of the individual, as well as the performance of the ombudsman's tasks. I'd call the first current an anti-system current. These were political and legal changes for the concentration of power and the gradual transformation of the Polish state. The second current would be called the current of national populism. These were actions aimed at redefining human rights concepts and undermining the importance of constitutional guarantees to date. The third trend is social trends, changes to strengthen the social protection of citizens and to guarantee them a better standard of living. Referring to this first trend, which I called anti-systemic, I will say that in 2012 Jarosław Kaczyński, President of Law and Justice, declared the establishment of Budapest in Warsaw. Starting with the October 2015 elections, these changes have been implemented on the basis of the gradual submission of independent institutions, the reduction of their competences, the reduction of the level of legitimisation of actions in order to simultaneously strengthen the central political centre of power. This is a well-known salami method. These changes concerned: the submission of the Constitutional Tribunal to political power; the establishment of the National Media Council and the introduction of the political cast of public media, excluding the constitutional powers of the National Radio and Television Council under the law, as assessed by the Constitutional Tribunal on 13 December 2016; the strengthening of the powers of special services and the maintenance of the state of absence of effective judicial and democratic control of their activities; the merger of the office of the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice, while creating hierarchical mechanisms of subjection; and the implementation of the policy of abuse of powers in disciplinary procedures of prosecutors. There have been changes in the rules for filling office positions in common courts by extending the powers of the Minister of Justice to the Prosecutor General at the expense of the powers of the judiciary. There has been a constitutional violation of the rules on the mechanism for the seat of the National Judicial Council, but also changes concerning the Supreme Court, including in particular the creation of two new chambers, one of which, the Disciplinary Board, does not meet either the constitutional or the European standards of the competent court. It was also the regular application of disciplinary proceedings to judges in order to limit their involvement in matters relating to the independence of the judiciary, or in connection with the decisions given and the so-called calling. freezing effect. It was also, and is, a limitation of the role of Parliament and the failure to respect the principles of law-making, in particular by preparing parliamentary projects, as well as by making amendments and preventing discussions, especially in the Sejm. These were also changes in the electoral system, including the status and composition of the State Election Commission. Let me remind you that de facto representatives of political parties were appointed in place of judges. This is also a reduction in the independence of the civil service, including the practical abolition of the competition procedures for the highest positions in public administration, the drastic reduction of the criteria for admission to civil service and the abolition of guarantees, and the stability of the position of persons belonging to the civil service corps. This is the use of public funds to finance the activities of private entities that favour and act in favour of public authority, e.g. media and non-governmental organisations associated with the authorities. In fact, these changes have led to a challenge to the principle of the threefold division of power. They caused that the Polish system could no longer be defined as a true constitutional democracy, but rather as an unconsolidated democracy or hybrid democracy. Using the terminology of famous politologists, Steven Lewicki and Lucan Way, this system can also be described as a electoral system or, in other words, competitive authoritarianism. This is a system in which, while formal mechanisms and democratic institutions are preserved, elections are held, but the essence of the functions of these bodies has been hollowed out and their functioning is determined by the dominant influence of the central political centre. While there is competition in the political arena, the opposition's potential takeover of power is hampered by the control of institutions which should be independent in the democratic system. In the light of, for example, reports by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the presidential election... One might wonder how the recent presidential elections should be assessed in this light. This gradual pursuit of the creation of a new, unknown constitution of the system had an impact on respect for civil rights. Victims of human rights violations have become those defending the constitutional rules of the past or related to independent state institutions: judges, prosecutors, state officials, public media journalists. Changes took place in parallel through legal changes and a campaign of hatred against specific individuals Leaders of protests, opinion-makers or specific professional groups, e.g. judges, but also resident doctors, teachers or non-governmental activists. Numerous human rights violations have affected those who, under civic responsibility, responded to changes, organised protests, demonstrations, civil disobedience actions. The authorities also did not react to acts of hatred that appeared in relation to persons performing public functions. After the murder of President Paweł Adamowicz at the beginning of 2019, the authorities could not draw any conclusions from this. I would like to remind you that the famous list of city presidents calling on the authorities to explain all the circumstances of President Adamowicz's death has basically been ignored and hate campaigns, supported by public media, have become a method of governance. This anti-system current also affected Poland's position on the international arena. Never in history since 1989. Poland was not the subject of such intense interest from all international organisations. In relation to Poland, proceedings have been initiated before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which already affect legal relations with courts of other Member States. It's called a risk. Poland's legal speech from the European Union, i.e. the legal polexit, which I have defined in this House, has become not only dangerous, but is seen as real. The recent provisions of the Karlsruhe General Courts and Amsterdam concerning the European Arrest Warrant are proof of this. The courts of other Member States have less and less reason to apply the principle of mutual trust in relation to Polish courts. The application of EU law in Poland is increasingly being questioned, which is an example of ignoring the provisional order of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, the scenario before which I recall, I warned about two years ago in this House, in front of our eyes, is being implemented. Poland is a completely different country in 2020 than in 2015. Although the Constitution of the Republic has not formally changed, due to these changes we have a different system than five years ago. This is a system in which electoral manipulation is much easier, guarantees of the right to an independent court are excluded, and there is violence from the state as a result of coordinated police actions, prosecutors' offices, special services or public media. It is a system in which the so-called system is being implemented more and more effectively. technological sequence From spectacular detention, through temporary detention, to the presentation to the court, while at the same time publicising the various stages of the action of the authorities. For several years, despite numerous appeals on this issue, the most basic standards for guaranteeing the rights of persons detained by the police have not been introduced, such as: automatic access to a lawyer or legal counsel. Subjection of the prosecution guarantees that there is no responsibility for violations of the law, which is further reinforced by the relevant statutory standards, which we are discussing even now in recent days. Also, those who are openly responsible for the violation of the law are not liable if it does not serve the interests of the rulers. I would like to remind you that the issue of death certificates of presidents of Polish cities, so-called. symbolic death certificates, in fact, have not yet ended with the initiation of proceedings and prosecutions. At the same time, the prosecution is able to act extremely intensively in the case of acts committed by people who are seen as political opponents or ideas. In fact, only the courageous attitude of universal court judges is the last barrier to the full freedom and arbitrariness of power. But the question is: how long? In a context of real violence and symbolic violence, judicial independence will be perceived by society as a component of the right to court. Another question also concerns the role of independent media as a counterweight to abuse of power. In many cases, it is thanks to the courageous attitude of the media and journalists that, thanks to the involvement of investigative journalists, power cannot afford anything. However, the pressure on the media does not subside. If we look at Poland's situation regarding freedom of the media, we will see that in 2015 we were in the nineteenth place in the world in the freedom ranking of reporters without borders, and now we are in the sixty-second position. The second trend that I would like to talk about is the current that, behind researchers, political scientists could be called the trend of national populism. By this term researchers define the policy of right-wing parties, which in their rhetoric, constantly appealing to the will of the majority, the sovereign, question the meaning and voice of the elite, emphasize the values associated with the nation, tradition or Christian values. At the same time, this approach is based on a specific exclusive definition and definition of what is good for the nation. In this way, depending on political need, the protection of minority rights may be undermined and people representing a different perspective are pushed to the margin of public debate. The starting point for action is therefore not the values reflected in the Constitution, but the will of the nation, the sovereign, which is defined by those who have been given a mandate to rule. As a result, constitutional values are redefined and challenged, and the Constitution of the Republic itself does not become a signpost during the rule of law, but even an obstacle to the fulfilment of the will of the dominant majority. In the meantime, the constitution is just so that everyone, regardless of belief, belief, worldview, can fully feel a member of the political community, and the current ruling majority should respect this. This trend, in my opinion, also means undermining the values of international cooperation. Criticism from international organisations is treated not as a desire for friendly dialogue, conversation, finding a solution, but as an attack on our values. It turns out that European values are not our values, although in fact they are in line with those expressed in the 1997 Constitution. For example, the rule of law is not mentioned in the context of what follows from Article. 2 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state, but the term "so-called" applies. the rule of law, as if the rule of law were a stranger to us. Between 2015 and 2020 there were numerous manifestations of this type of policy, the implementation of this trend. Let's reach back to 2015 when I started to act as an ombudsman. Parliamentary elections coincided with the migration crisis in Europe. The issue of the admission of refugees by the Polish state has become one of the main topics of the election campaign. To this day, there are shameful words about the alleged diseases and the protozoans who were to move refugees. These words, in fact, contradict the historic tradition of receiving refugees in Poland The example here is, for example, the refugees of war from Chechnya. It was not only the first symbolic example of moving away from the value of liberal democracy. Between 2015 and 2020 there were many other examples. This is, for example, a failure to fulfil its obligations towards the European Union with regard to the adoption of 400 refugees, which was subsequently assessed by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the absence of a humanitarian corridor for refugees, the lack of a genuine policy against hate speech and violence against migrants, the practice of not accepting applications for refugee status at the border crossing point Brest and others against Poland by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. This was also a reduction in public funding for organisations providing assistance to migrants. The official government document in the form of Polish migration policy has not yet been adopted. This trend of questioning constitutional values also manifested itself in the approach of women's rights or in relation to the rights of homosexual, bisexual and transgender persons. As regards women's rights, it should be noted that the importance of the anti-violence convention, the Istanbul Convention against violence against women, including the latest request for Poland to declare the Convention, the proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General. It is also a failure to comply with the rules of legal abortion, to restrict access to contraception or to exclude public funding for in vitro therapy. The changes were also reflected in the checks carried out at the women's rights organisations' premises, which took place the day after the black protest, or the possibility of obtaining public funding. Homosexual, bisexual, and transgender individuals have also become victims of these anti-constitutional actions. The ruling political power opposes the rights of the LGBT people of tradition, Christian values or even national values. As a consequence, the LGBT people, despite existing human rights standards, despite the fact that our legislation has repeatedly introduced rules on non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Not only can they not rely on protection, but they are vulnerable to violence by public authorities. LGBT rights are used as a tool of political struggle. As a result, it was difficult to adopt the most basic legal acts, such as the revision of the criminal code on protection against hate speech, the regulation of the status of people in same-sex relationships or the regulation of gender reconciliation procedures. Let me remind you that the 2015 Act was vetoed by President Andrzej Duda and this was the first veto of the President in 2015. Instead of these necessary legal changes, LGBT people experienced several times the bans on equality marches, as well as the violence that had happened to them by the counter-manifestoists in the years 2015 and 2020. Here I will remind you of events in Bialystok or events in Lublin, where explosives were brought to counter-manifestation. Luckily, the people who brought those charges were punished. People have experienced verbal violence from the highest representatives of the legislative and executive powers. These people experienced a policy of exclusion, through resolutions adopted at local level on the prohibition of promoting LGBT ideology. And, I would like to stress, this has never been questioned by government representatives in the field, that is, by voivodeships. There was also a lack of support for state-led LGBT activities, with the exception of certain local authorities, or lack of support for anti-discrimination education in schools. The events of the last weekend are a dramatic result of the Polish authorities' current policy towards homosexual, bisexual and transgender persons. In fact, several percent of Poles are basically permanently excluded, without the title of full-fledged citizens of the Republic. On the other hand, the collapse of the rule of law undermines the protection of the rights of groups traditionally discriminated against, and these people are having increasing problems in the exercise of their powers before courts. I would like to add here that it is becoming increasingly common for the prosecution not only to act as a prosecutor, which is a natural role for the prosecution, but also very often to proceed to civil and judicial and administrative proceedings in matters which concern issues of world view. And the question arises: what is the purpose of such an active involvement of the prosecution in such matters? This trend, which I am talking about, is also reflected in changes in cultural institutions and historical policies. Dialogue and cooperation with scientific and artistic backgrounds have been repeatedly replaced by attempts to impose a specific political vision, abuse of the right to fill positions in cultural institutions and attempts to challenge the achievements of previous generations. These changes were also characterised by a change in relations with non-governmental organisations. Those who acted in the name of the common good, but perceived as contrary to the interests of the party, became the subject of harassment and attacks. This concerned certain charitable organisations, organisations fighting for democratic standards, organisations of national and ethnic minorities, but also environmental organisations. Moreover, in some areas the principle of "sharing and governance' was applied, which was particularly highlighted by the protest concerning the guardians of persons with disabilities in the Sejm. The organisations critical of power could not count on good, rational cooperation with the state. One of the most important symptoms for the non-governmental sector was the government's efforts to make funds from the so-called. Norway's funds, the funds to be transferred to support NGOs, did not go to an independent operator but to an entity subordinate to the government. It is not without reason that the idea of introducing various administrative constraints on the financing of non-governmental organisations is emerging once in a while, e.g. public collections. Recently it was the idea of introducing a register of foreign donors. There have also been attempts to suspend the functioning of certain organisations, e.g. Nationals of the Republic of Poland, and introduce a compulsory manager to them. In these circumstances, it was difficult to develop modern mechanisms for civic participation, since the approach to organisations in many cases was based on mistrust, and sometimes even on open hostility towards some manifestations of civic activity. The government has repeatedly refused to allow non-governmental organisations to consult draft laws because of the practice of preparing parliamentary projects and thus avoiding the natural consultation process, not responding to requests for access to public information, did not care about pluralism of the debate, did not conduct grant contests in a clear and transparent manner. In the last five years, the alliance of the throne with the altar has also been strengthened. The Catholic Church supported some legal changes, but above all did not oppose when they were under attack, e.g. It's LGBT. At the same time, the government showed great tolerance for any abuse in the Church itself, which may be manifested by the approach to combating pedophilia and the lack of responsibility of church hierarchs for hiding these cases. All these changes had consequences for the performance of the Ombudsman's mandate. The Ombudsman is a guardian of values expressed in the Constitution and in international agreements ratified by Poland. It cannot give in to the currently imposed political narrative, it cannot accept the reinterpretation of existing standards, it cannot recognise that certain persons have certain rights if these rights are directly derived from the Constitution and international agreements. The Ombudsman took various measures to protect the Constitution, especially when the majority's will and the associated policy-making methods threatened minorities or persons critical of power. However, the increasing polarisation of public life has caused difficulties in the performance of the Ombudsman's role due to the lack of space for communication, experience, but also in real dialogue on matters relevant to public life, yet ideologically sensitive. In this respect, the role of the courts, which in many cases, despite the pressure, were able to look for solutions to protect civil rights, should be particularly appreciated, but they also provided room for debate on the nodal problems of conflict between various goods and values. It was the courtroom that was often the only place in Poland where such a dispute could exist and be settled. It is therefore all the more important to maintain the independence of the courts when the trend of change has such a strong impact on social and legal relations. The third trend of change from the trends that I mentioned at the beginning, in the years 2015-2020, concerned the protection of social rights. It was a policy that called for recognition of the material needs of society and the need to build a more egalitarian society, which should also benefit from economic change and persistent economic growth for many years. I would like to stress that this policy of recognition, the policy of recognition, the policy of noticing people and their needs, people who live in smaller towns, in rural areas, this is something that I absolutely support. My conclusions from the regional meetings that I conducted in more than 200 cities indicate that this is a change that has served Poland well. The most important aspect of this was the 500+ programme, a programme to support families who raise their children. In addition, the government has taken active action on the protection of workers' rights. There is no doubt that the success of the government in this area was due to the economic downturn. However, as a result, poverty levels have decreased significantly over the last five years, especially among children, as well as unemployment levels. This social trend has also contributed to profound social change. The massive scale of social programmes such as 500+, support for learning children, the restoration of the lower retirement age, all this has contributed positively to the overall standard of living and its comfort, especially in poorer families, where there is less chance of a well-paid job. However, the Ombudsman is from not always seeing a glass half full, but sometimes half empty. Well, some of the reforms necessary for respect for civil rights have been postponed in time. In particular, it is important to mention the compensation of pensions for women in the year 1953. Despite the judgment of the Constitutional Court of March 2019 but also the legislative activity of the Senate, the problem has not been resolved. Only in June of this year was the appropriate bill prepared. This is also the problem of not raising the threshold for maintenance fund benefits or the failure of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment on care benefits for carers of persons with disabilities. These are those people who have become disabled at adult age and the judgment is dated 21 October 2014. It may also be worrying that, in the face of general declarations of respect for workers' rights, certain changes have been made in breach of the rights of persons employed in public administrations. The transformations of the institutions resulted in the termination of employment contracts and subsequently the proposal of new employment for existing workers. However, in such transformations not all workers were given the opportunity to continue their employment and not always their legitimate expectations or their workers' rights were respected. This was particularly the case for employees of the National Tax Administration, customs officers or employees of the National Agricultural Support Centre. It is also worrying that in the so-called. Anti-crisis shields have found solutions that allow for quite a free future development of employment relations in public administration. The implementation of this social trend has also resulted in a lack of energy, political will, and sometimes also in the ability to seek systemic solutions to respect the rights of individual groups. Here I would like to pay particular attention to the rights of people with disabilities. There is still an unreformed institution of incapacity, there is no reform of the disability system, there is no real, full long-term implementation of the deinstitutionalisation request and so-called. the right to independent living for persons with disabilities. In the case of older people's rights, these are also deinstitutionalisation activities, including insufficient action to change the functioning of traditional social assistance homes, a lack of consistent strategy to provide support for independent people, including support for older people's families facing neurodegenerative diseases. People affected by the homeless crisis. Despite really many efforts, programmes to get out of the homeless crisis are still insufficient. In turn, if we look at the problems of prison, we will see that Polish prison still needs systemic changes. The recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee on Torture Prevention and Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment have in principle been largely ignored. There is still a lack of reflection on the functioning and future of places such as the centre in Gostynin. I would like to stress that the proper implementation of social rights is not just a solution to specific sound problems. It is also an action aimed at creating long-term, mature strategies based on the cooperation of different public actors. In the last five years, such activities have been visible, but I have the impression that they have been initiated more on an exception basis than rules. A good example is the reform of the mental health system and the launch of a pilot programme for the creation of mental health centres at local level. The idea of building social services centres at local level should also be mentioned, which was an initiative of the President of the Republic. It was also important to adopt a package of laws and to ensure their financing, commonly referred to as "Availability Plus." However, it is regrettable that the most sensitive aspects of the protection of social rights of this type of long-term action are lacking. What's more, the Coronavirus epidemic has shown what deficiencies we have, showed how many systemic problems in the lens. Of course, this applies primarily to health care: queues to obtain benefits, no specialist doctors, insufficient treatment of certain diseases, a crisis of child psychiatry, unsatisfactory status of medical staff, including nurses, paramedics and paramedics, underfinancing of health care services and, for example, a still unfulfilled demand to increase the financing of health services, which was the subject of an agreement with resident doctors. Education. The fact that a good computerization had not been carried out before and that teachers had not been prepared to teach remotely led to the fact that in times of epidemics everything did not work as it should. It's obvious that teachers are quitting their jobs. Many complaints to the Ombudsman's office were about a hasty and hurtful educational reform for children. Schools also lack anti-discrimination education and civic education or climate change education. From other behind social problems, which I would say still require reflection, I will mention the problem of social housing. The scheme of living +alas, it has not been implemented in principle. Nor has another alternative social housing development programme been created. A comprehensive reprivatization bill was not adopted, and only recently the government proposed a bill aimed at resolving the problem of the owners of housing books, which I have sought in many speeches. Many changes are also required in terms of environmental protection and climate change. This is one of our most important challenges, and it is treated without sufficient reflection on the rights of future generations. I would like to point out here not only things of a nature, I would say global, matters concerning our future, but also that in many small towns residents are meeting with the problem of odor. The anti-odore law was not adopted, which would solve this very specific problem affecting the inhabitants. The problem of transport exclusion is also becoming increasingly important. At last, this topic has penetrated the public consciousness. The authorities begin to understand that inequalities can also arise as a result of living in a place far away from the centers of larger cities. This may adversely affect the right to health protection, the right to equal education or access to work, in particular in the case of persons with disabilities. However, although this subject has already been identified by politicians, no significant systemic action has been taken to address this problem. With regard to the right to social security, a serious violation of human rights was the adoption of a de-incubation law, mainly because of collective liability mechanisms applied. At the same time, it was this social group that felt the most material consequences of the rule of law crisis because the victims could look for legal protection to a very limited extent, because this judicial protection is only possible if the courts directly apply the Constitution. Let me remind you that in many of these cases there are very serious arrears and we are observing the length of proceedings. I would like to stress that the crisis of the rule of law is of direct importance to respect for the social rights I am talking about. As long as the courts are independent and there are mechanisms for the authorities' responsibility for breaking the law, so long citizens can hope to achieve their demands. Unfortunately, too often citizens are put in the position of a patent in relation to power. Failure to fulfil specific obligations, e.g. the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the guardians of persons with disabilities does not lead to any legal liability. Moreover, this trend can be even more visible in the context of the increased presence of the state in the sphere of economy and finance. In recent weeks, information has emerged on the idea of winding up the financial Ombudsman's institution. It may be asked whether the motivation for this decision is that more than half of the banking sector is currently owned by the State. Citizens have reason to wonder how courts will behave over time if their decisions affect the financial interests of the leading companies of the Treasury. Will the courts protect clients and business competitors by law, or will the political factor influence their resolution? As regards these three trends, I would like to move on to a few comments on the Ombudsman's mission. In my opinion, it is not possible to present all the actions taken by the Ombudsman over the last 5 years with regard to the changes presented affecting the level of respect for human rights. It is worth noting, however, that some of them could have been justified by the fact that no major reforms were carried out in certain areas of public life during the relevant periods of systemic transformation. An example is the functioning of the justice system. Negligences from earlier years were used as an argument to make changes which served primarily political purposes, in particular the aforementioned anti-constitutional change in the state system. The Ombudsman's practice shows that many complaints concerned systemic problems already existing before, because health issues, access to social benefits, homelessness, social housing or, for example, non-payment of alimony are an unsavory legacy of many years of abandonment of previous governments. I would like to share by referring to the tasks that I have done, some reflections on the principles that I have followed in my actions. First of all, the loyalty of the Constitution. The Ombudsman is a guardian of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Whatever the circumstances, I have tried to interpret the Constitution and apply it in the spirit adopted by its creators and which is the subject of the settled case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Secondly, I wanted to take action on the problems of local Poland. As part of the programme of regional meetings, I participated in meetings in more than 200 Polish villages and cities. Thanks to this, I was able to shape the actions of the Ombudsman in a manner tailored to the observations and expectations of the inhabitants of every corner of Poland. Third, the principle of cooperation. Regardless of the political atmosphere, but also regardless of the sometimes unfriendly actions by those who govern the Ombudsman, I have always tried to guide the principle of cooperation, because I consider it crucial in solving problems in Poland. I also tried to appreciate what the government does well in respect of human rights. Fourthly, the principle of good communication. In my opinion, human rights must be addressed in a clear and transparent manner. Citizens should know what the constitution means to them, as well as what rights and freedoms they have. It is the responsibility of law enforcement authorities to continuously translate and help all victims to gain information on how to protect their rights. The next rule I followed is the principle of helping the weakest. As regards the procedural possibilities that the Ombudsman has, we have always sought solutions that can help the weakest. We have done so through numerous individual interventions and judicial cases, including exceptional complaints. So far, I've filed 14 emergency complaints to the Supreme Court. Cooperation with NGOs. The Ombudsman has always been open to cooperation, consultation and joint action with NGOs. I'm glad I gained so many of them. The regional meeting could have contributed to this. I hope I have not failed all those NGOs that created a precedent mechanism five years ago to strengthen my chances of choosing an ombudsman. Another rule: Appreciating self-government. The reform of local government is one of the greatest achievements of the 30th anniversary. Some of the local authorities have been able to support in their innovative efforts to respect human rights or, for example, to use mechanisms such as social economic mechanisms to implement certain human rights. International cooperation. In the face of the crisis of the rule of law and the impact on the values of liberal democracy, cooperation between the Ombudsman and international organisations was crucial in the performance of its functions. And the last point: thinking directed towards the future. Many actions and recommendations of the Ombudsman are aimed at resolving these problems in Poland, perhaps sometime in the future. I believe that general speeches, but also the achievements of 3 great civil rights congresses, will interest and serve to solve problems in 5, 10 or 15 years. This concerns the five main challenges that I set out in Agenda 2035, which is the programme document ending the Third Congress of Civil Rights. These are climate change, new technologies, demographic problems, intergenerational relations and the rule of law. I believe that the last 5 years were dramatic from the point of view of the values and constitutional principles concerning the political issues of Poland. Although the material standard of living of the inhabitants has improved, the changes in the state system, unresolved systemic problems and anti-system changes are shadowing Poland's further development as a constitutional democracy, they pose a question mark regarding our future in the European Union, as well as our security. This already affects the level of respect for civil rights and freedoms, particularly personal and political rights. And the role of the spokesperson is to warn. And I would like my speech to serve that purpose. Poland 2020 is different from Poland 2015 due to our democratic maturity, because, contrary to all these changes, the citizens of the Republic of Poland have learned what the constitution is for them, how to enjoy freedom of speech, freedom of association, freedom of peaceful assembly or mechanisms of control of power, such as transparency, access to public information or petitions. They have shown what innovation and creativity can do in solving specific social problems, but also in controlling the rulers. Similarly, judges have not succumbed to great political pressure and are able to actively defend citizens' rights in important judgments. All this gives hope that one day Poland will return to the family of fully democratic states and become a once again loyal member of the European Union and an active member of the international community, taking care of the highest standards of human rights An active member who is able to seek freedom in a responsible manner also in other countries. Even if the above hope of return comes true, we must realise that the future Poland cannot rely on a return to what was, because when we waste the next 15 years, there may be no turning back when it comes to the growth of authoritarianism, the strength of global corporations, the use of new technologies to control our lives or when it comes to climate change. Therefore, in considering how to protect human rights, we need to take into account the development and strategic challenges and to think long-term about how to solve them. We must also take care of our community, to appreciate the value of European integration for our homeland. We must appreciate all those who have made a sacrificial decision to serve the common good in the pursuit of various professions. We must also benefit from the achievements of experts and science. And following such signs is a responsibility to future generations. I hope that the achievements of my office and the 2015-2020 term of office will be helpful in this respect for politicians and citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. Would any of you senators like to ask the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar? No. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u38	Mr. Marshal... I'll wait till congratulations sound out. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Go ahead, sir.]] It kind of bothers me, 'cause there's too much caucus talk. [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I ask that those of you who want to talk move into the hallway. There you go, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for clearing the forefield. Everyone listens to Mr Bodnar with such interest, and I have always done so, even when he made other statements and made speeches, especially in the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions. But today, I find your spokesperson's speech special. I think that many people who listened to this statement noticed that its first part was actually very much like the speech of the leader of the political opposition, not the ombudsman. In my deep feeling, it was in this first part that we were dealing primarily with the deep, hot, comprehensive criticism of the political formation which is currently exercising power. Only in the second part did you turn to interestingly formulated statements concerning what is the ombudsman's competence and what requires his particular interest in this activity. From the first part of the statement, I would like to draw some of the points that I have written down and for which, if I already assume that this political part of the statement was entitled, at least there is a need for polemics. Mr. Spokesperson said, among others, that minority rights are not respected in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Are they?]] I have run through all the minorities that have come out recently, and I would like to ask: the rights of which minorities are not respected? I don't see them. That there was no freedom of the media... Which media are they? Which articles have been confiscated? Which non-governmental, as you say, non-public, private media suffer from a lack of freedom of expression? In what proportion, you could also ask Is there a quantitative proportion of public media in relation to these non-public ones? Who's got the media advantage? I don't see it. What are sexual minorities discriminated against? This was also the thread in this statement. In what are the human rights, the people who admit to these minorities, or in the ideology they preach, contrary to the constitutional role of marriage, with the constitutional role of the family? At the same time, the spokesperson immediately thereafter, two sentences further, said that he was a guardian of constitutional values. Well, I guess those about marriage and family, too. And seen misguided by these sexual minorities. [[Applause]] A few other strong, generalized, hastily in my opinion statements that deserve a question or a big question mark, at least in writing. Health care. We agree with your spokesperson that it's not perfect. I would like to see, especially against the background of the sad experience of the plague, in which this country's health care has acted in a way that does not raise doubts to citizens, good. We know well the weaknesses of our Polish health service and we will probably agree that there is much more to be done to make it work better. But if you're talking about underfunding health care, why didn't you notice that for the first time in the past year, in 2019, we reached the limit of PLN 100 billion in financing the NFZ? [[Voice from the room: This is our money. They're our...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Easy, easy...]] We don't have any other money, it's just our money, Senator. I'm talking about them right now. And they've been used to finance health care. You spoke to the spokesperson about transport exclusion. Yes, we've noticed them. This is why bus lines, railway stops are being restored, and therefore an investment effort is being made to restore the communication network, to expand the network. We can agree that we are dissatisfied with this state that is already there, but we cannot ignore the silence of the effort that is being made to make things better. These are some examples that may be discussed, but we need them to be said in a comprehensive way, with the raising of positive and negative elements, if you see them. Several times there have been criticisms about the rule of law crisis in Poland, about the democratic crisis in Poland, about the judicial crisis in Poland. However, the Ombudsman rightly, in my opinion, observed the integrity of our judges and the judgments and did not say anywhere. And here we are sure to agree that he knows the cases of making judgments on the phone. So something about the independence of the judges in Poland... This is important and good. And that should be highlighted and appreciated. On the occasion of these crisis phrases at some point, Mr. Spokesman, at the end of the day, said that our citizens had learned to exercise freedom of the media, freedom of associations, organisation, which means that this democracy, although poor in your opinion, favors and helps them here. [[Applause]] It is the duty of the Ombudsman to see critically all those areas where civil rights are at stake, but it would be much better if the clear propensity and sympathy of the Ombudsman for a certain political orientation did not prevent him from seeing In particular, in such a report as the Ombudsman himself said, ending a certain longer period of your activity at that office It also includes all the positive aspects that exist in these areas. [[Applause]] Finally, just one more thing. I imagine that, for example, because of your young age and great political experience, you will not give up public activity. Mr. Ombudsman, I address you with an appeal. 'Cause we've always had a really good conversation so far. You should take the side of those who distinguish equality from that of the law. And in order for you to face an issue that is underestimated in public discourse, there are, however, certain ideologies that cannot count on equality and tolerance. We owe tolerance to man because he has dignity, dignity in every man should be respected. But tolerance is not to blame for the ideologies and views that people preach because some of them are harmful. Even if we subjectively view them as harmful, we also need to know that some have even been constitutionally declared harmful. I remind you of the article. 13 constitutions. In the discourse on citizens' rights and freedoms, this should be very stressed. You pointed out that we are in a certain opposition to the understanding of democracy, the rule of law that is in the West. You said here, elegantly speaking, that they underestimate us in these matters. Yes, in some cases, there is profound disunity, diversity, divergence, contradiction in understanding the fundamental category of civil rights. Since the European Parliament has already adopted a resolution on universal access to free abortion as a human right three times, as a Pole who knows the history, tradition of the Polish state and the role of Christianity in building this tradition, I think you will agree that in Poland not everyone will agree with this understanding of human rights, especially human rights to life. It must be understood that there is a great ideological discrepancy in the approach to human rights. These rights are at your heart, I am convinced, but today, today, especially in Europe, it is important to be able to clearly separate the different views that they deal with. Those who are right remain the choice of our own mind and conscience. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u39	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grażyna Moravian-Stanecka. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Gabriela. Something a marshal with my name on it...]] I'm sorry. Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u40	Dear Marshal, Dear Ombudsman, I was hoping that on such a day as the ombudsman, the one who stood firm for years to uphold the rights of the weakest, those who most need support, those who are sometimes not accepted by anyone, would submit his last report, out of respect for his titanic work there would not be such voices as the voice of Marshal Severinski. And that's why I'm going to say a little more than I was going to say, arguing with the Marshal's voice. The Ombudsman, Professor Adam Bodnar, is right about what he says about the problems our citizens have. He is right when he talks about the fact that minorities in Poland are not comfortable. And I'm not just talking about sexual minorities. I say this especially to one side of the room. I am more concerned with completely different minorities, national minorities, people with different skin colors, which are often the target of attack in Poland. In Poland, minorities are not safe and this is our huge problem. We, as Parliament, should look at the problems that the Ombudsman presents to us, and we should bow very deeply. Equal access to healthcare. I hear things have changed so much around here. And the spokesperson has nothing to say about that? Yes, it does. There are places in Poland, you may not know where women must go 17 km to enroll in gynecological clinics. There are places in Poland where there are 20,000 patients under the care of one doctor. There are places in Poland. This is also the case for the Ombudsman. There are also situations in Poland that people with disabilities, women with disabilities cannot take the advice of a gynecologist because there is no equipment adapted to it, because there are no regulations that would allow such women to benefit in any way necessary and sometimes very necessary to protect the health of the aid. There are places in Poland There's even a lot of them lately. Where there are psychiatric problems not only for adults but also for children. In Poland, children commit suicide and the Ombudsman is also leaning on this problem. Transport exclusion. I, Mr. Marshal, remind you that it wasn't the PiS who noticed the problem of transport exclusion, it was the left. This element of our program And rightfully, I'm very happy about it. You've picked it up. All these allegations stem from one misunderstanding of the role of ombudsman. Professor Bodnar has said several times that this is not just a matter of this government, it is a matter of many previous governments. I agree with that 100%. No matter who was in charge, the Ombudsman has always intervened. Well, that's what a few of your professor's predecessors did, but it's always been understood. The spokesperson is just to intervene. He's all about paying attention. The Ombudsman will never agree with the government, because if he agreed with the government, it would mean that he does not stand up for the citizens and is not needed. ♪ 'Cause the government never ♪ No matter what party is in power It does not see the problem of a single citizen. That's what the ombudsman is for. A man like that who can't find help anywhere, even in court, goes to a spokesperson and asks him for help, because that's what the Ombudsman is for. The Ombudsman is always on a conflict-of-law course with the authorities. And that's normal, you have to understand and appreciate, because power often closes its eyes to a citizen who can't claim his. The spokesperson is like a lawyer. I thought we understood the role of attorney in our civilization. The lawyer will always stand up against you because he defends the citizen no matter what this citizen has done. Yet, in recent years, there have also been accusations against lawyers that they are defending criminals. Well, that's their role. Their mission is to defend criminals now. That's why citizens need a spokesperson. This term was very difficult. I think that when Professor Bodnar took up this honorable function, he didn't even realize how difficult it would be. I'm proud of how you... I admire this titanic work, as well as that you were close to human affairs, that you and the people in your office rode through these smallest towns. You didn't give up, you just talked to people and saw the problems of the smallest ones, the most vulnerable ones. I would very much like the entire parliament, the entire Senate, to show you respect. Despite the fact that you have often had to enter into a conflict with the state, including us, in representing citizens as a spokesman, we should be able to rise above this and show you respect as a man who represented almost 40 million citizens, every citizen, and the rich one, and the poor one, and the one embedded in Gostynin, and the one with disabilities, and the woman thrown out of the house, and the one detained. That's what the spokesperson is for. I would therefore like once again to thank the Ombudsman very warmly for this mission. I can only hope that in five years we can thank the next spokesperson. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u41	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. [[Voice from the room: Remotely...]] Why remotely? No, it's Mr. Wind that's gonna go remotely. [[I can move, Mr. Marshal.]] No, no, it's okay. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club In fact, as I am convinced, on behalf of the entire democratic majority in the Senate, I would like to thank you, Mr Ombudsperson. But it's not enough. We would like to ask your permission to sign your report, because this report of 5 years shows what the foundation of the State is for the Ombudsman, and especially for the Ombudsman, who is independent of authority. Mr. Spokesman, we thank you and ask your permission. Besides, I would like to say that your Ombudsman's term of office was the most difficult after 1990 period of the Republic of Poland. I will not repeat what the Ombudsman said in the report. It was a great challenge and you as the foundation of the Republic of Poland, an example of a government official stood at the level of the task. Mr. Spokesman, thank you very much. Let me now give you a few official sentences, where everyone or almost everyone signed up because of their absence, members of the democratic majority in the Senate. Before I read it, I'm gonna share something because one thing comes to mind. The Speaking Professor, Senator Seweryński, spoke about things that were so different from what most Poles saw. I've come to think of a saying: it's hard to talk. It's hard to talk to the authority that listens and doesn't hear. The Lord was this man, this institution through which he wanted to restore power, hearing, sight and wisdom to understand what is being read, what is being heard. Thank you again. Professor Adam Bodnar, Ombudsman. Dear Professor, in view of the end of your term of office as Ombudsman in the years 2015-2020, we thank you, appreciation and respect for your solid work, steadfast attitude and defence of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Poland. The passing term is an extremely difficult time for the Ombudsman, in which you often faced the apparatus of power, which repeatedly undermines the foundations of democracy and civil liberties. Your work for five years is full of credibility and efficiency as well as universal recognition. Dear Professor, with the hope of further cooperation, we wish you every success and prosperity in your future activity. With respect, and here are the signatures of the democratic majority in the Senate. Professor, Mr. Spokesman, thanks again. [[Some senators get up.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u43	Wait a minute. [[Voice from the hall: Please take five minutes to take a photo with Mr. Spokesman.]] Dismissed until 12:35 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 12 minutes 28 to 12 minutes 36]] We're continuing our deliberations. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska has submitted her speech to the minutes. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, but there are two others.]] Who? [[Senator Wind and Senator Orzechowska.]] Thank you very much. I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Wind remotely. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u44	Good morning. I'm being heard. Yes? [[Yes, you're heard, Senator. There you go.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have been mobilized to this statement by your marshal, especially in relation to the speech of Professor Michael Sewerynski. Yesterday, your marshal called not to address ad personam, but, as you can see, we are familiar with relativism. I have no doubt that, because of your age, Mrs. Marshal, you should apologize to Professor Michał Sewerynski for his words, because of the age of Professor Sewerinski, but also because of his respect for the right and the way in which you said them by Professor Michał Sewerynski. I will not refer to the words of the ombudsman, especially those spoken in the first part of his speech, because I lack words, I lack words. I cannot formulate my thoughts as well as you did Professor Michał Seweryński, but with both hands I sign this statement and thank you to the Professor for the way he said it, for the way he said it, for the outstretched hand, despite his lack of understanding. Yesterday, during a very late discussion, one of the senators declared that he would defend everyone against police aggression. He showed the footage, and so on. Mr. Senator, there's still an aggression about values. For many of us, it is more important than physical aggression. Will the senator defend me, defend us from the aggression directed towards the highest values for which many generations of Poles and Poles devote their health and life and which are being violated? Will you defend us against this? Like those rainbow flags that have been hanging out lately. There was a discussion about the colors of the rainbow. We know that there are several different sets and there are different symbols. And we know it's a specific gender ideology. And about Christ in Kraków Przedmieście, the Christ whom we know, a figure knocked down during the Warsaw Uprising, with a cross, a cross symbol of love. Are you Senator... Is the Ombudsman defending us from this aggression about the most sacred values? Here, the senator just said that the great majority of Poles... Where do you get that information from, Senator? What are the conditions that make you say that? So that I would like to address the Ombudsman with the question of what he will do to defend us against insulting religious feelings, whose protection is guaranteed in the Constitution, in order to defend the national values that have been so strained in recent times. It's hard to talk about things like that. We extend our hand to every neighbor, especially Poles and Poles. But please don't insult us. Don't insult us. Respect us as we respect you. Respect values, our values sanctified by the blood of so many generations of Poles and Poles, in particular we mean those from the Warsaw Uprising, because this was the time when they gave their most often young lives for us. And what are we doing with that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u45	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I am a senator for the second term, so in my previous term I had the chance to cooperate with Mr Adam Bodnar, a spokesperson for civil rights. At the same time, I also had the opportunity to work with the child's attorney, Mr. Mark Michalak. And let me tell you one thing: the difference between these cooperations was determined. While in a situation where the child needed help, the spokesperson always reacted, he required cooperation with me, but the Ombudsman in the case concerning the Polish citizen... I've never had a situation like this so far that this ombudsman has helped me. Sometimes I didn't get an answer, sometimes I got an answer that the ombudsman couldn't do anything. I'm a senator with the so-called. Land Recovered, so there are various minorities in my territory, and national minorities, and religious minorities. The Roma minority, who lives in Ostróda, where I come from, is a minority who has not been interested in politics for many years and who has not participated in any political life for many years. Since they learned that their voices, as Polish citizens, can also influence elections at different stages, whether it's local or parliamentary or presidential elections, they have started to participate in this life. There are plenty of people on our territory who came from Ukraine, from Lithuania, also from Belarus. As a senator, like all the other senators, I'm a representative of the one-mandate district, so people with different views come to me. I listen to each one of them, and I try to help everyone. And I'm really sorry I never got your help. Whatever the option these needy people were out of. I hear you've helped a lot of people. And for all the help you've given me, I would like to thank you very much, and to continue to wish you the best of your life and that you always meet with understanding and help. In situations where this will be needed. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u47	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Your office is described in the Constitution in the Chapter of State Control and Law Protection. This is the Supreme Audit Chamber, the National Radio and Television Council and the Ombudsman. You were or are still a one-man office. It's a very big responsibility, because otherwise you make decisions, otherwise you answer collegially, in some body or otherwise as a single person. What's basic... maybe not even a mistake, but a basic mistake related to your performance today? She took this into account, but in a completely different context, in order to make it clear, your marshal, by making the phrase "ununderstanding the role of the Ombudsman of civil rights." While this book, more than 600 pages, is indeed a report, information from what the Ombudsman's office has been doing for the past year, while your speech here was not a report by the Ombudsman in the form in which it is described by the Constitution It was a political statement. I have criticized you many times here from this speaker, I have spoken of it to tilt you in this way, not the other way. We're not going back to that. And now I see that I was right. I was right. You used the Ombudsman's office to build your political career. On the one hand, it's a little late. Why? Because the one-man election is over. But on the other hand, it's a little early, because there's no formation that you could power, support, and lead right now. Well, maybe that's what's going to happen in our political panorama. We'll be following your career as a former ombudsman. The basic question is, is this why we choose people for the highest offices? Constitutional, very high-ranking, so that these people build their political career on this? There are institutions in some democracies like the alternative government, the shadow office. And maybe this is about the president of the shadows. Or is the Ombudsman simply a servant of the nation, to work for the nation? Unfortunately, I have the impression that you have not taken advantage of your chance to work objectively for the good of the nation for five years. I am not talking about work to present my personality, my person, but clearly: to every citizen of ours, regardless of their views. The ideological tilt I've seen in your activities is dramatic. And now a few words about your speech, not this book, not the office's activity, but your speech here, I'd say, programmed. It was a program event, well-designed, nicely given, well rhetorically developed. You said about 3 currents which supposedly destroy the position of Poland, affect the decline of the role of our country outside, etc., it could be multiplied. The one that is now developing as a current that you could accept, but with exceptions, with holes, with gaps, is the trend of protecting social rights. We're not gonna argue with him. As for exceptions, it is better that these are exceptions to the rule than the rule, namely the lack of protection of social rights, which we had five years ago and which our nation could feel on itself. The next current, anti-democratic, so I put it. Which is, in your opinion, the destruction of the institution, of course. Okay, but that's an opinion. Question: Can opinions be verifiable, false? Yes, of course. Who, what should be the subject of such an opinion? Are we having a democracy crisis? Is that, I don't know, a little crowd in Kraków Suburbia It is always possible to collect and pay for it, which is very easy to show in the media, they are willing to demonstrate it and show it... Well, if anything, let's take the principle of equality. Every Polish citizen, in particular a team of citizens, i.e. a nation. Recently, a few months ago I'm talking about the whole string. The nation expressed itself unambiguously, categorically, zero-one. You can't manipulate it here. As you know, in the local elections, everyone is the winners, depending on which view we take. Here it is clear what the people say. In my opinion, the nation is not just because of whom it has chosen The President-in-Office so far. It shows that he wants the continuity of this power, but also because he went to the polls at such a large percentage. That's what you're really gonna do? In the West of Europe it is said that democracy, that the higher attendance, the more democratic the state. Are there any other standards here? I don't think so. Indeed, the Polish voters believed that his voice meant something. Polish voters stop pretending to vote, he actually votes. And the Polish authorities really rule, for the sake of this electorate. There's no more mimicry and pretending. This is a democracy crisis? Let us consider other countries, their turnout. Of course, if this is the only measure of democracy. But he's objective, he's objective, not subjective, it's not like I think so. And as a matter of fact, I would say outrageously I would say that you have counted the national trend into what is going to harm Poland. This is a fundamental, fundamental question: what country is Poland to be? Or melted in such a European-Libertarian conglomerate, without national identity, without history, by the way, the destruction of the nations, not only of Poland, by the way? Is it supposed to be part of a larger European organism, the most interesting anti-democraticly maybe not created but ruled? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the European Parliament? This is not a parliament above all, it is a kind of fake. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And here's the question: how are decisions made in individual bodies... [[Voice from the room: Most.]] ...the European Commission, etc.? Most of it? And does the European Parliament... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. Is he entitled to a legislative initiative? There we go. Ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the details. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What is Poland supposed to be? Is this the kind of consumer team, by the way, for various corporations and organizations, which is supposed to only consume products and possibly deliver cheap labour? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] White, non-conflictal. Or a single nation in Europe It's about your own history, your own identity, your own custom, your own language... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...of your own dignity? That's the basic question. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You claim that the latter, being a nation, can harm Poland. In such a European Union, it may not make life easier so that I can He did, but you have to look a little further. I want my children, my grandchildren to speak Polish, to know Polish history, not to be ashamed that they are Poles. If you say it's a burden to promote, for example. Historical policy is, I don't know, a downside, it's just a negative action, that, ladies and gentlemen, we'll never communicate here. These are the basics. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm on my way to conclusion, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your patience anyway. To sum up: Mr. Ombudsman, we do not judge this book, we judge your speech, or, in fact, your activity for the entire 5 years. You didn't do your job right. You went one way into the political scene. You think it might be the right thing to do. But if you say that the national trend is bad for Poland, and you need it, I don't know, to eliminate it, to reduce it, that's what I don't agree to, but, I think, most of my colleagues too. [[Thank you, Senator.]] Poland is to be a nation... Poles are to be a nation and Poland is to be a sovereign state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u49	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, Dear Senators! I wouldn't have spoken if it hadn't been for the right-hand side. I decided to perform so that they weren't the only voices that would sound here today. There's a situation when someone's finishing up their job. And it's a work judged by a lot of people as very good work. At a particularly difficult time. And I think this is a moment when even the opposition should focus on what was good during this term and what a busy term it was. Because this is the spokesperson who always came to us. And in the previous Senate term, and in the current Senate, which always stood before us, which answered all the questions that came here and addressed every senator, including the opposition senators, personally. It was a person who respected the Senate. I think that such respect at the time of your departure is also due to your spokesperson from the opposition senators. This is not a good time to talk about things you didn't like. You have said them, ladies and gentlemen, many times during this term of office. Now you had to spare yourself. In my opinion, there was a lack of some recollection here. Mr Ombudsperson, as Head of the Committee on Culture, I would like to thank you for the fact that you have always advocated for culture and freedom of the media during your term of office. I'd like to thank you for being on the side of the weak. I would like to thank you for all the moments spent with us in the Senate at difficult moments for the Republic of Poland. One of my fellow senators on the right side of the political scene complained that maybe you didn't listen to her. I don't think that's true. I think you're gonna answer that yourself. I would like to say that the Ombudsman is not for politicians, he is not for us. He stands up to us and presents us with a report of his work for people, for the social groups that come to him, for the weakest who turn to him for help. And that's the job of a spokesperson, not a politician. I don't agree with that. Of course, we can accuse everyone of politicisation. I don't think this is the time. But let's consider whether we can accuse you of dropping a case when individual residents of Poland, as well as citizens from abroad, who addressed the Ombudsman, e.g. in cases of detention in prison... Didn't these people get help? The Ombudsman's activities are not the only report we could read Another one, because every year we got reports like this. But also the scope of his work. It was a huge effort of the entire ombudsman team. We need to remember that this is a large office that employs a lot of competent people. This is one of the few institutions that has maintained a certain style of work over the past few years, as should be appropriate for each office. There are people working with a lot of experience, people who have repeatedly shown themselves to be the highest competence. They were led by a spokesman, young but experienced, as one of the senators of the right hand said. He was a person who, at the very beginning of his term of office, was accepted with some scepticism by various political forces, but it turned out that he was working in a manner independent of politicians, whether it was the opposition, or the ruling coalition. The Ombudsman showed great determination in the fight for civil rights and carried out his duties at such an exceptional time. I would like to thank you once again, Mr Spokesman, for all the good years of our cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u51	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Czerwiński brought this fat book to the stand and said that your spokesperson's speech was not about the book, but it was a political statement. He even suggested that it was intended to build a political position. I would like to say that when it comes to building a political position, Mr. Spokesman has been building this position for the entire term of office, not thinking that he was running in any election, even though he may have run. And as for this book, Mr. Senator, it is such books that you and your office, along with your entire team, produced, distributed and showed in the Seym and in the Senate every year. When you had the majority in the Senate. In the Seym, you had most of it all the time and you still have it. There wasn't a situation where you were referring to this book. And there are described specific cases, there are described specific situations, there are indications of defects of law, there is indicated what needs to be changed in Poland. You didn't say anything about it. It was quiet. You didn't show any interest in it, and today you, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, say you should have talked about this book. Well, it's been said many times, but nothing came of it. Nothing or very little. Very little every year we have been fighting here to finance the Ombudsman's office, every year we have faced a situation in which absolutely unfoundedly, disregarding this institution, the parliamentary majority Now only the Sejm, and previously also the Senator's fund was cut off, and it cut them drastically. And then you resent that the spokesperson didn't help someone, that the spokesperson didn't do something, that he didn't see to it. Does everyone realize how many cases have been reported to the Ombudsman? These were hundreds of thousands of cases that had to be dealt with by a relatively small team working from morning to night, even under difficult conditions, including local ones. The Ombudsman asked, even begged, to grant him funds for regional centres so that he could be closer to the citizen. What was the effect? The result was that his funds were still cut off. And that's what you did. That's why I have to say that when you're criticizing today, I think it's crocodile tears. It's just hypocrisy. As for the other plea, namely that it was a political statement that unnecessarily characterized systemic issues, etc., etc. By the way, I thank Senator Severinski for his very cultural statement of objections. This is the result of misunderstanding of the role of the Ombudsman. It may be that there are great, excellent democratic laws in the country, but yet these rights... Well, they are realized, performed by specific people. These people often do these rights wrong or do not exercise certain features that result from these rights. The Ombudsman then deals with specific cases of specific people concerned by specific decisions. But it may be that this failure to perform certain tasks and duties, not to comply with certain rules, does not result from individual decisions, but from the fact that the law itself is constructed in a faulty way. For example, we are dealing with a situation where the Minister of Justice, a declared politician, is also acting as a prosecutor general. Does something bad have to come out of this? He doesn't have to, but maybe. If we see it coming, we have to talk about it. Without changing the situation, certain reprehensible situations will not be corrected. The Ombudsman may deal with individual cases, but if there is no general change of the law which causes this, such situations will repeat themselves. And that's why the spokesperson talked about it. If you, Senator Seweryński, speak of values here, say that there are values resulting from the Constitution and that the Ombudsman does not see it here, he does not understand that it is necessary to defend the dignity of people, as you said, but not necessarily to have tolerance... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. ...but not necessarily have tolerance for ideas, for ideology. So you have to ask yourself which views it is about, what ideology it is about. [[Voice from the room: Constitutional.]] Good. Constitutional. So I would like to ask: is a van that drives around Warsaw, which insults dignity, humiliates people with a different sexual orientation, which tells people wrong, a lie that actually mobilizes these citizens to kill these people in the streets, and we have cases like this without a few... Is this a situation where a spokesperson should step in or shouldn't he step in? He should move in, sir. Should democratic power, which raises the question of dignity, respect, etc., address this? She should. He doesn't. So we're not talking about any ideology here. This is where we're talking about chase. Here we are talking about the fact that, under the pretence of ideology or speaking about ideology, there is a belief in the part of society that these people who have different sexual orientation are, in general, the reason behind some evil, and we just have to eliminate them somehow. And unfortunately, there are those. Some are just disliked, but there are others who are going into physical violence. So, with this thesis, Mr. Senator, you can generally agree, because there are ideologies for which there can be no tolerance, I completely agree. The example you set is not a proper example, because we see where it leads. That's all the spokespersons were talking about... As far as systemic changes are concerned, at least some of them subsequently led to violations of civil rights. It is not that the spokesperson should focus only on every single case and try to intervene, i.e. he saw trees and did not see the forest. Well, unfortunately, he must have emphasized that in his opinion... You can disagree with that, of course, and I know that today's ruling crew disagrees with that. But he emphasized that this is where the causes are. And as for the national issues that Senator Czerwinski was talking about... After all, this is not about questioning the values of the nation, national traditions, etc. We all have them, we respect them, only situations where certain values are imposed, claiming that they are inalienable qualities of the Pole, saying: if you do not confess them, you are not a Pole. President Jarosław Kaczyński in the election campaign was polite to say that only those values which the Law and Justice profess are Polish values, so those who do not confess them cannot belong to this community. I don't mind those who show off on the streets with white and red flags, with a white eagle on their chests, etc., but on one condition They won't wear T-shirts that say "death to traitors of their homeland." 'Cause here, who's the traitor of the country, they're the ones who define it. That's one thing. Secondly, regardless of how we address national issues here, Poland is a country, although rather homogeneous, but there are also other nationalities here. So... [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. Above all, we must emphasise citizenship, civil rights. All of you. No matter what nationality they are In this respect, they are equal, pluralistic and must be respected. Professor Adan Bodnar's approach to the Ombudsman for four years has been a holistic, broad, exemplary approach. And what he said here today should be passed on, taught and read at universities, schools and Polish homes. Mr. Ombudsperson, you have earned well the Poles, and therefore Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u53	Thank you, Senator. Let me remind you that... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Mr Marshal, I would like to speak.]] You're welcome. Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! By signing everything Senator Marek Borowski just said, I'd like to remind you I hope that I will thus close this stage of the discussion, there have been speeches from all sides here. The State that Prof. Bodnar has been notified to this position by dozens of public benefit organisations, i.e. citizens, to serve. Life shows that it was a citizen's decision very right. And I would like to remind you at the end of this meeting And I would like this to be remembered and that we should remember this carefully during the next Ombudsman's term of office. That the Ombudsman is for citizens, to serve citizens, to defend them, to deal with citizens' problems. This is not a figure or figure to serve politicians, Members or Senators, no matter what attitude they have towards the Ombudsman's work. This is a representative of society, this is a representative of the citizens of our country. We have to treat this position anyway. Thank you again for the years you've devoted to NGOs. I had the pleasure of working in one of the NGOs that was among the dozens of organizations that applied for this position. And I have to say, you didn't let us down. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u55	Thank you, Senator. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska has submitted her speech to the minutes. I don't see any more people willing to speak. The discussion is closed. And I am asking whether Mr Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman, would like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches during the discussion. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u56	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank you very much for the discussion and for the evaluation of the Ombudsman's work. I would like to thank you very much for these good words at not only my work but also the entire Ombudsman's office. I would like to say that some of my comments will be more than just, I would say, of a polemic nature. I will also try to use the terminology that appeared here. Defend the dignity of the colleagues of the Ombudsman's Office, those 300 people who have been working with me for 5 years. Most of them worked in the office also earlier. I would like to stress that I would wish every state office such a wonderful staff. I will return to some of the actions we have taken, because I am absolutely identifying myself with these actions, interventions and positions. First of all, I will refer to the comments made by Marshal Sewerinski. Mr. Marshal and I have been discussing for many years how human rights should be understood. I very much appreciate the discussion on the protection of social rights, but also on how human rights are changing. In the doctrine of human rights, there is such a concept as an evolutionary interpretation of human rights. Yet, let's say, 30 years ago, we did not consider certain issues or situations to be a human rights standard, but now we consider them to be a human rights standard. I would like to stress very clearly that in my actions I have been extremely careful not to exceed what is apparent from the current standard of human rights in the Republic of Poland. For example, the marshal mentioned the definition of marriage. I have repeatedly said that discussions on the introduction of same-sex marriages in Poland will be difficult as long as the article is not changed. 18 constitutions. This view does not mean that I have a large group of supporters who wish to interpret the article differently. 18 constitutions. At the same time, I will stress this. • standards such as the protection of dignity, such as respect for the right to private life or the prohibition of discrimination, make it necessary to introduce some form of regulation for same-sex couples. Moreover, this is the standard resulting from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It is not without reason that 19 complaints from the Strasbourg Court have been brought to the attention of Poland. The difference between us is understanding the concept of family. For me, if two people of the same sex live together... It is a concubine, it is necessarily a relationship which is not registered under Polish law. These people, as long as they love each other, as long as they have a household together and are together, are family. They are also a family that, in my opinion, is protected by art. 18 constitutions. The issue of abortion was also raised here. During my entire term of office I had no position, I tried not to express a position that would enter into a very delicate space, which is Parliament's decision on when abortion is acceptable. But at the same time, I said that it was necessary to comply with the laws in force, that if the rules currently in force are abused in such a way that women do not have the right to terminate pregnancy, it is the role of the Ombudsman to insist on this issue. Marshal Moravian-Stank spoke of it. Mr. Marshal also spoke about the issue of freedom of speech. Freedom of speech is also freedom of information. This entails a very special role that public media play under democratic conditions. If there is a fact that public media do not perform their tasks to offer access to pluralistic content, full information independence and, you can say, to present all views, it is a departure from a model that was created, for example, on the basis of the Radio and Television Act. This poses a threat from the point of view of freedom of information. That's it. one of the main threads of the recent OSCE reports on our elections. Mr. Marshal mentioned an article. 13th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I'll read the article. 13 constitutions, because it is worth recalling: The existence of political parties and other organizations referring in their programs to totalitarian methods and practices of Nazism, fascism and communism, as well as those whose programme or activity assumes or permits racial and national hatred, the use of violence to gain power or influence state policy, or provides for the secrecy of structures or memberships. Well, I have the impression that in my activities for the last five years I've really been taking a few cases that concern this area, where we've just claimed that there's been a breach of the limits of freedom of speech and the activities of certain organizations. So that I think we could discuss here for a long time, I am absolutely ready to discuss with Mr Marshal also about other detailed information and issues that have emerged in the report. A lot of words came out here. I think that, mostly, Senator Wind's statement on the protection of tradition, the images of religious feelings and the Ombudsman's actions in this respect... I would like to stress that I am very close to thinking in such categories. For example, I have been asked many times about my approach to art. 196 criminal code. I say this: this is a provision that maybe needs to be corrected gently, so that it does not reach too wide and sometimes certain phrases or words, but, as a rule, it is a balance of a few values on the one hand of freedom of speech, and on the other hand freedom of conscience and religion. Moreover, in recent years I have undertaken several interventions that have concerned this, e.g. I protested against the simulation of this absolutely disgraceful action, it should not happen to cut the throat of the kukle with the image of the archbishop Jędraszewski. Well, a knife knife attack on a priest in the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Wroclaw in June 2019 or an attack on a priest in Szczecin, assault on a monk, assault on a priest in Mosina, desecration of chapels. These cases were regularly brought to the office. Moreover, we have also undertaken analytical activities in this area. We've prepared, for example. a report on the issue of hate speech. In Poland, hate speech may be associated with what trumps first of all to public debate, but we pointed out that even Catholics, who may be the majority, may also be the subject of hate speech. In our report, which we've prepared on this subject... Let me quote a passage so we know what's going on. Our study showed that there were such things as: "I asked a young girl on the tram so that I could sit down because I felt bad, and she called me old people names, "I'm forcing like all moher berets." This is also a speech of hatred and this has also been condemned in the reports of the Ombudsman. There are other examples when there is a certain social pressure. What's more, I have the impression that I talked about it in earlier Senate meetings, and there is discrimination on account of the confession in the workplace. Yes. Catholics, although they are the majority, may be discriminated against in different situations when such secularisation occurs. So it was in the Ombudsman's actions, too. So that here I would like to draw attention to this issue. If I could, because perhaps it would need such a greater explanation, I would add that there was a book called "Citizen of the Polish Republic," in which I spoke, also for a reason, with the editor Bartosz Bartosik from the Lab's editorial office. The whole chapter is devoted, you can say, to discuss how to find a space for dialogue in our homeland, how to try to understand each other and how to seek a balance between the various values that are currently in collision in Poland. I think that if those who have asked me questions agree to read the book, they may even be surprised at some of my views expressed and printed there. Senator Orzechowska has made a number of allegations about the office's work. Of course, it is difficult for me now, at this point, to refer to very specific individual cases that have been reported. That was, as far as I know, a motion for cassation complaints. I stress that every application made by every senator, but also every Member, every citizen, we are really trying to carefully consider, but we can't always help. If we can't help, then we're really honest about what it is, and we're not trying to run away from the responsibility for taking the case. It really doesn't matter to us who's talking to us. I sometimes even regret that some interventions, including the Senators of Law and Justice, have not received a positive response from the authorities. I remember one of the first cases I took. I remember, it was 2015, there was an appeal of a group of senators led by Senator Wojciechowski to create such a mechanism, so that, if we have a sentence that counts 1,000, 2 thousand pages with justification, we could extend the deadline for making an appeal. I've sent a lot of letters to the Ministry of Justice about this, I've asked for it, and it hasn't changed. And we've had an excellent example of problems lately, because the Amber Gold judgment has 10,000 pages. How can you write an appeal on such a matter in a few days? How can you even read a judgment like that? And returning to these issues mentioned by Senator Orzechowska, I would like to say that one intervention was certainly taken, and was positive. The thing may even be interesting to me privately, namely it was a question of the fee for fishing and fixing certain rates in a way, well, a little monopolistic by the Polish Fishing Union. This case, as a result of our intervention, ended with the fact that the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection carried out the entire audit in this regard. So that this cooperation was. The Roma minority was mentioned. Since this topic has been raised, I would like to say that I have been in the Roma estate in Maszkowice twice myself, and I have already written how many letters to my uncle, to the chairman of the commune council, even with the voivode, have been able to cooperate in this respect, and still housing conditions differ far from the standards that should be required. Moreover, my colleague, Chief Marcin Sośniak, who is our expert on the rights of national and ethnic minorities, helps every time the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities in the Seym, we are doing our best to help and strengthen the Roma community in this area. A whole range of comments and questions from Senator Czerwinski. Mr. Senator, we, for years, can say that we have exchanged comments on various subjects, and I think that the words that I am doing my duty are not the best, not the first time that fell from the senator's mouth. I would like to say that my speech today, of course, was a summary of 5 years. I thought this was the special moment when I couldn't focus just on my senior year, but I should have just seen everything that's happened throughout my entire term of office. And that's how I tried to prepare it today. But there was such a remark, for me, Mr. Senator, that I am using the office to build a political career. The senator here spoke of various possible choices. Mr. Senator, it's just that there are people like that. And I'm one of those people. Who really believe in ideals. I really believe in ideals, what I do. I really don't give a shit what I'm gonna get or what it's gonna get me. I have really been taught human rights by my masters, Professor Wyrzykowski, Professor Viktor Osiatyński, Professor Hołda to believe that these human rights make sense. I'll tell you, for me, one of the most important moments during the appeal period... Maybe I'll trade you two moments like this. The first one was when the sleep came to my office. Professor Karol Modzelewski and I could talk to him at all, I could I'm sorry to say this. To touch history and the person who sacrificed so much for fighting for independent Poland. Or when I could drive together, one car with Marian Turski to Auschwitz and he showed me what was going on there. These are situations where you really believe in ideals and you really don't think about what to do or what I'm gonna get out of it. It is simply done to pursue certain ideas and constitutional values that I deeply believe in. Moreover, Mr. Senator, I consider myself a servant of the nation. Mr. Senator, I recall one moment that was really nice to me, which was about you. Namely a few months ago, here in the Senate, there was a debate with my deputy, Stanisław Trociuk, on the involvement of the police and, you can say, the inequality of action of state authorities in the context of various demonstrations. Then even the senator commended us. You said we were doing a great job on the health department. But the health issue, the penalties imposed by the health department, is just part of what we've been doing in the context of the Coronavirus epidemic. Between March and the end of July, we accepted 3,000 600 complaints that dealt with various situations related to the coronavirus. We took over 800 individual interventions, and there were over 100 general speeches. Well, we've compiled these statistics in six months, only in the context of Cortox. Several dozens of cases concerned those penalties imposed by the health care centre. And nobody really asked me what I was thinking about when we were asked for help. Neither do people from Kruszynian who protest against a chicken farm, people from Kawęczyn near Września, from Lublin or from many, many other towns, where we took various actions, ask me the same question. Cassations are filed in criminal cases several dozen a year. There are also exceptional complaints, cassation complaints, and there are different cases before administrative courts. It all consists of the hard daily work of the Ombudsman's office. I'd like to assure you that it's not happening somewhere next to me that I don't know that I'm just dealing with things that might be interesting, not what's going on in the office. Absolutely not, even last week I was at a meeting about the need to introduce a medical emergency council. I can also mention the case of one injured forester from Małopolska, with whom I personally met, or the case of coordinating our speeches concerning this famous article. 37a criminal code on the responsibility of doctors. And this is my life. Every day I try to supervise all these topics, lead them. Well, I have absolutely fantastic support from three of my deputies: Mr. Trociuk, Mr. Taborowski and Mrs. Hanna Machinska. One of the important aspects of our business is the monitoring of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism. It was yesterday that there was a court hearing in Ryki that... well, once the experts went to the scene, it turned out that there was a person beaten up. The problem of beating at police stations has not been solved until today, despite numerous speeches. And that is my service to the nation. It is about implementing all these demands to improve the human rights system. The senator also spoke of the concept of the nation. The Polish people are defined in the Constitution. The preamble to the Constitution says this: "We, the Polish Nation" All citizens of the Republic, both believers in God who is the source of truth, justice, goodness and beauty, as well as those who do not share this faith, and these universal values that originate from other sources. This is a beautiful definition, created de facto by Stefan Wilkanowicz and then taken by Tadeusz Mazowiecki and the Constitutional Commission. This is a concept that refers precisely to the fact that we all form a national community, which is so beautifully diverse in ethnic, national, religious, religious, religious or worldview terms. I believe that every person must find his place in this very nation and be respected. Moreover, every citizen of the Republic of Poland is also a citizen of the European Union. The European Parliament is our representation, our representation of the citizens of the European Union. It's not a fake. Yeah, we were talking about turnout. Quite a large number of citizens of the Republic of Poland took part in elections to the European Parliament, considering that this is their representation. Moreover, the fact that we are citizens of the European Union results from our additional European identity, which allows us to exercise certain rights. And I think that we should take care of this, because it is a great civilization value for the citizens of the Republic of Poland, that we can be citizens of the European Union and we can benefit from the freedom of movement of persons, from the principle of equal treatment, if we are in another Member State, or from the various additional opportunities that this gives us for citizenship. So if we're thinking about the future, I think... I absolutely agree with the senator, I am a strong advocate for our national identity. I assure you that I inculcate my sons quite similar, I think, thinking about Polish history, about literature, about poetry, about values, as maybe many present in the Chamber, because I think it is very important to have their own identity. But that does not mean that, at the same time, we must question the European identity and what is involved. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for these comments. I would like to add one more delicate aspect. Sometimes there may be dissatisfaction on the citizens' side when it comes to the Ombudsman's office, but this dissatisfaction may have a double cause. We actually felt what it was all about, you can say, the financial crisis in our institution. There's a question of extortion in criminal matters where we're late, or the fact that the influx of cases is so big that we can't handle everything. An emergency complaint could possibly be more, these 14 complexes were very specific... I think this is a very specific help for specific families, specific individuals. So these financial deficiencies had an impact on the functioning. We differed from other legal authorities in the Republic of Poland, from other public administrations, that we could not count on financial support that would be adequate to the needs of the Ombudsman's office. Finally, using this opportunity, I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues very warmly for being able to work with them for five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u57	I thank the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate has read about the Ombudsman's activities and the status of respect for human rights and human rights in 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The text of the Act is contained in print No 162 and the report of the Commission In prints No 162 A and 162 B. I now ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Józef Łyczak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Mr. General Director of State Forests! Invited guests! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on the Environment a report on the work of the Commission on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources - Senate printing No 162. The aim of the Act is to introduce a solution to ensure the continuity of sustainable forest management for the duration of and after the outbreak of COVID-19. This is due to the introduction by 31 March 2021 of the definition of energy wood. This definition is defined by the following article. 184f Act on Renewable Energy Sources. Due to the ongoing epidemic, wood harvested in forests is not collected. The accumulation of such wood will increase the risk of fire in forests, and it will also become a place for the development of harmful insects whose hailing can cause the trees to die, as well as the quality of the wood raw material obtained in the future. Leaving uncarried wood in the forest, especially coniferous wood, which is currently about 2.8 million m3 in stock, can be associated with a fire risk throughout the country. The last step is the third... I mean. We have a third degree fire hazard. With such an additional accumulation of flammable coniferous wood, there are many other threats that are urgent to eliminate from the forest, and that are linked to the lack of possibility of developing wood raw materials, especially coniferous wood. Polish forests are threatened by an ecological disaster related to the gradation of insects, including the printer's barkers and sharp-toothed coats and hornets, and further technical pests of wood, the gradation of which may result in the decay of tree stands. Also the mass show of butterflies, the feeding of their caterpillars during intensive vegetation So far, the only effective way to fight for the survival of the tree was through continuous sanitary surveillance and the removal of insect-inhabited trees. The removal of these trees from the tree stand and the sale made it possible to preserve the forest before disaster occurred. At the time of the crisis caused by COVID-19 and the lack of interest in the purchase and collection of wood by the wood industry and the lack of sales of the so-called. Wood dried as energy wood The State Forests must not carry out further logging and therefore must not commission work for forest-related forest-related forestry services, consisting of forest service facilities. In recent years, the synergistic impact of many harmful abiotic and biotic factors on the health status of forests in Poland is becoming increasingly apparent. Global climate change and associated weather anomalies, which have been observed for many years, and above all water deficit, high temperatures, often recurring snowless winters and hurricane winds, indicate the possibility of further decline in forest health. The drought which has continued since 2015 in large areas of the country has significantly affected the health of forests and has started the rapid development of insect diseases and pests, contributing in extreme cases to the surface extinction of trees. During the committee's work, a minority request to reject the law was submitted. This request was rejected by the committee. The Legal Office submitted 2 detailed comments, but the position of the government, presented by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska, was negative. The Minister pointed out that the draft was prepared correctly in legislative terms. I would like to point out that the senators have made numerous inquiries, expressing concern about the well-being of Polish nature. I am convinced that most senators were concerned with the good of Polish nature and wood industry, as well as energy security. Minister Małgorzata Golińska gave detailed answers to the questions asked, which concerned the situation in Polish forests. Nevertheless, I consider it necessary to mention here the allegations that have been made. One of these allegations is the negative impact on the wood industry, in particular the sawmill industry of the law we are talking about. During the work of the Senate committees, one senator accused the State Forests of using bad pricing policies and acting against the national sawmill industry, in particular small family businesses. I would like to remind you that the amendment to the Renewable Energy Sources Act makes it clear that energy wood cannot be classified as tartar wood. So wood used generally by sawmills... suggesting that sawmills wipe away waste And such suggestions were made at the Senate committee meeting, and I find it unfounded. During the work of the Senate Committee, it was also asked to provide information on the quantities of wood harvested over the last 10 years. In response, we heard that the acquisition has been increasing steadily since 2010 due to the growth of timber on the trunk and growing up to the age of the distinctiveness of the stands planted before and immediately after the war. The jumping increase in the extraction especially in 2017 and 2018 results from a hurricane wind disaster in the area of 4 regional directorates of State Forests, about Toruń, Gdansk, Poznań and Szczecinek. It is a perversion to consider this growth without taking into account the context. In 2019 it was nearly 2 million m3 smaller to obtain roughy than in 2018. In 2020, approximately 38.6 million m3 is planned to be raised, which is less than in 2019; however, it should already be presumed that, due to COVID-19, the acquisition will be lower. So far, the delay is about 8.1%. over time, which is about 3 million m3 per year less. Second plea: negative impact on the amount of dead wood in the woods, increasing the extraction of wood to burn it. I would like to inform you that a group of scientists, representing a specific conservation trend, has been addressed to the Senate committee, which contains the thesis that contradicts the publicly available results of research and inventory. And now... It is not true that Polish forests in most regions resemble wood plantations and are devoid of key forest species. It contradicts the image of forests and the results of their large-scale and cyclical inventory. In Poland, the area of forests is still growing, only in the last 10 years by nearly 190 thousand hectares, but it is often repeated that forests should increase the stock of land to be forested. Therefore, in 2016 a mechanism of pre-emption by the State Treasury of forest land or for forestation was introduced and the effects of these changes are slowly visible. The most important thing is that, contrary to various concerns, the law we are talking about does not give the State Forests grounds for increasing the extraction of wood. The size of use is based on ten-year plans for forest equipment, which are the basis for the functioning of each forest, are being created during a multi-annual process with an important involvement of the public, in particular local communities, and are finally approved by the Minister for the Environment. The RES Act will only provide a new group of companies with the opportunity to buy wood which the State Forests have already acquired or acquired according to existing plans, regardless of the size of the demand of these companies. She's moving in right now. Instead of removing biocenetic trees, it leaves hollow trees in the woods. The RES Act doesn't change that. Energy wood will be considered to be those types of raw material which are of the lowest quality and do not use their wood industry. It should be anticipated that due to climate change and the increasing phenomenon of forest extinction in Europe, including in Poland, and the resulting species conversion, the share of this type of raw material in the whole wood harvested by the State Forests will increase. However, this is neither a reason to increase the clipping at all, as its level sets the needs of the forest and limits set in the plans. During the debate 3 amendments were tabled by Senator Janusz Bęcherz, 1 by Professor Jadwiga Rotnicka. The text of the amendments is contained in print No 162 A. The amendments were made to the majority. The Commission voted to amend the Renewable Energy Act and asks the High House to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u59	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on the Environment, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Guests! I'm just gonna complete my previous speaker's statement, and then I'm gonna justify... The Senator of the majority said that the committee rejected... But he forgot to add the course of the vote. Well, the vote looked like seven senators were in favour of the bill, seven against, and one person, senator, abstained. So it was not so obvious at the committee meeting whether this law should be supported or rejected. That's one thing. Secondly, this law is entirely harmful, because it actually introduces the concept of energy wood into the Polish legal order. And here it is suggested that there is a category that treats biomass of forest origin or wood as waste at all. For the woodworking industry, every type of wood raw material is a raw material that is suitable for processing. Of course, not everyone and not everywhere is interested in wood that does not have the character of sawdust wood. However, they are interested in wood that can be processed into To no longer describe the technology MDFs, wooden panels from which furniture is made or which are building boards. The introduction of a new player will only result in an increase in raw material prices. It will also make the woodworking industry as a whole have access to material at significantly higher prices. I'll just remind you... There are various data here, but it is said that over 500,000, 580 thousand people work in the forest and wood industry in Poland. In the woodworking industry itself A little over 300,000. These are companies that will actually be exposed to the fact that they will have access to the raw material, but significantly more expensive, because energy, professional energy will be interested in purchasing this raw material. She will be interested in paying significantly more for this raw material, because she will also be able to sell this raw material... she will be able to use this raw material to generate energy that will be treated as renewable energy. It will pay much more, will increase the cost of raw material, will cause the woodworking industry to be in a very difficult situation, because this industry also has huge problems with COVID. Of course, the Minister's government does not care at all, because there are no measures to ensure that the woodworking industry can function and survive the whole process related to the increase in raw material prices. I would add that, in fact, all the organisations representing the wood industry are very clear and directly protesting against this law. They also expect the High House, the Senate, to reject this project in its entirety. I would also like to add that... the Senator rapporteur of the majority has been very easy to clean up by talking about the successive increase in the extraction, that is, the clippings of forests. I'll give you the 2010 data and the last data. In 2010, 31.9 million m3 of wood was harvested; these are official data of the State Forests. In 2018, it was 41.6 million m3. In parenthesis you added the CEO of the Forests. I understand that in some part of the disaster, but let's not get crazy, it wasn't 10 million m3. A year later, in 2019, it was almost 39 million m3, so you can see how radically the acquisition was increased. And I don't think there's any reason to lower the acquisition, and this raw material is sold on the market if we look at wood only as raw material. Of course, there is another problem, the problem of overemployment. I'll give you the data here, too, which... Maybe the principal didn't want to brag about it, but I also asked for the data. In 2015, 25,000 376 people were employed in the State Forests, at least according to official CSO data. And already in 2018 26 thousand 414 people, or more than 1 thousand people are employed additionally. Average salary in Forests In order not to look too far, here I also provide the data of the CSO for 2018. This is 8 thousand 21 PLN. I repeat, average salary. And if we add derivatives to that, it's easy to count how many millions of zlotys of extra costs, just and exclusively related to employees. And this, I have a deep conviction, workers who do not necessarily work, which are directly related to forests. But about that later, and not necessarily today. I think the director knows exactly who and what I'm talking about, what kind of examples. This law is really going to help the forests survive, because generally very bad management, employment growth, lack of proper forest management makes forests in trouble. In the letter we received, the Director also wrote about reduced revenue from the sale of wood as raw material and that the plan was implemented at 45% after 6 months. Although he wrote a little vaguely, I'm guessing that the plan was implemented at the level of 4 billion. He said the plan was going to be $9 billion, but I assume it's $9 billion at the end of the year. So the financial situation really doesn't have to be the best. I don't want to go into the details of the way the funds are spent anymore, because the money involved in the employment of salaries and derivatives is probably the main source of expenditure, but not the only one. There are plenty of other important treatments, such as forest ones, as well as agroforestry ones, but there's probably a whole lot of legitimate positions and a lot of unclear ones that today... I don't want to talk about it right now either. At the same time, protecting climate protection Biodiversity is one of the most important climate action I would like to make it clear that in this case all environmental organisations are protesting against this law. I do not know an organic organization that has been operating in Poland for years, which would have a good opinion about this bill. They're all waiting for the truth. In fact, the important ones... They all clearly say that this law is suitable only for baskets, because it is harmful from the point of view of nature conservation, biodiversity conservation. Therefore, at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, I requested that this draft law be rejected in its entirety because it cannot be rectified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u61	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jolanta Hibner, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a position on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 16 July this year. The bill is a government project. At the meeting of the Committee on National Economy, this project was considered and after a long discussion it was rejected. Eight votes against and four votes against, but no amendments. During the discussion, the current representative of the government, the Minister, rejected all the amendments that were a clarification of the text of the bill and which were prepared by the Senate's legal office. This law, according to the information presented at the committee's meeting, aims to clarify the additional energy source, i.e. the definition of energy wood which deviates slightly from the definition contained in the already adopted and functioning Renewable Energy Act. In addition, the Act extends the catalogue on the use of useful wood for energy purposes. It was incomprehensible that the proposed period of application of these provisions was so short, since from 1 October 2020 to 31 December 2021. If this is to really serve far-reaching plans, it should probably be planned with a longer perspective, not about a year. According to the information provided at the committee meeting, these provisions are necessary for the adoption of a regulation on energy wood. This regulation, according to the Minister, was consulted and agreed with the European Commission. All these activities This is the position of the government It is in line with the plans of the forest equipment in which the preparation should take part and, according to the information, organic organisations are involved. According to government assurances, 80% wood is and will be guaranteed for permanent customers associated with the wood industry, such as representatives of the furniture, construction industry, etc. At the moment, we have significant surpluses of this wood in the amount of 2 million 500... here a colleague was talking about 2 million 800... maybe there was a difference in transmission. These surpluses have not been sold in the country or abroad. Hence the proposal to extend the catalogue of operators to power plants and heating plants which can use wood as biomass in the combustion process. The Senators and the Member who took part in the committee's meeting drew attention to the great role that the so-called 'Senators' have. Wood selectioner. There were different names here. It is a person who will decide on the classification of wood and may reduce the class for sale. The Minister said it was inefficient. Well, that's the logic here to make it uneconomical. That's why you lower the class. Such doubts arose at the committee meeting. The Minister who participated in the committee's deliberations underlined the decisive role played by the sale of wood in the auction system on the one hand and the dubbing prices of timber imported from abroad on the other. The wood that comes from abroad is said to be very much, which kind of blocks us from using our own wood. Following analyses and discussions, a vote took place in the committee, in which the majority voted against the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u63	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please indicate who the rapporteur is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u64	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address this question to the rapporteur, the senator. [[Voice from the room: Which one? Lycheka?]] Exactly. [[I understand, sir. Senator Łyczak. There you go, Mr. Senator. We're listening.]] Dear Senator, rapporteur, As I follow the work on this bill and it all begins to remind me of the procedure for passing the law on windmills and RES. It was in the beginning... years ago 4, maybe 4.5. At that time, I warned against such a violent adoption of the law, I said that there were mistakes and that without public consultation we would make a bigot. My amendments did not then find recognition in your eyes. Now I have such a sad conclusion that after 4 years they all came into force, but we have lost these 4 years. As we repeat the same mistakes, I have such a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. The law was prepared by the Ministry without public consultation and Article is violated. 34 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. However, it does not interfere with the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act, about RES, it is again processed in instant mode. 3 readings were performed within 1 week. The PiS Members, of course, rejected all the opposition amendments. Well, four years ago it was the same. Senator rapporteur, do we have to proceed this way? Because I have the impression that in a few years, and perhaps even in a few months, we'll be updating this bill again. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u65	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! That's the kind of question I don't necessarily know how to answer, because it's not up to me to process this bill. All I can say is that I believe primarily in the wisdom of Polish foresters, I believe in their love for this beautiful national treasure, which are forests. What we are doing right now is necessary, because this biomass that is behind must be removed from the forest as soon as possible so that what I said in my report does not happen. As for the pace, I think the sooner we do this, the more beneficial it will be for the beauty and health of our forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u67	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Margaret Golińska is in the room. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go... [[There's another question from room 217. Question for the rapporteur of the minority.]] Well, we just finished asking questions. And can we wait until there are questions to the government? Does the senator or senator really want to ask that question right now? [[We can wait. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, it is a law which was prepared by the Ministry of the Environment. This was a government project that we have prepared in connection with the ongoing outbreak of COVID-19, during which we have seen a marked decrease in the collection of wood raw material by the wood industry. This raw material is obtained as part of the implementation of tasks placed before foresters under the Forest Law and tasks resulting from other regulations, such as forest conservation instructions and forest farming rules. These COVID problems have been imposed on problems that we have seen for several months, namely oversupply of wood on the European market, which was created by the emergence of harmful insects in European forests, e.g. our neighbours, Germany and the Czech Republic, or Austria. Unfortunately, today the problem of excessive number of harmful insects is also affecting Polish forests, especially in the south of Poland. Forest owners are obliged to protect them, to carry out activities to prevent threats to their sustainability, so when we have observed the inhibition of logging or the situation of limited logging At the same time, some of the already harvested wood, more than 2 million m3, was not collected, was not purchased by the wood industry and is behind in the Polish forests, and we decided to urgently prepare a solution that will introduce a new definition of energy wood into the RES Act. The project was prepared for a period of time until the end of December 2021. The law gives us a chance to expand the collection of wood, although we do not necessarily believe that it will solve this problem. But we hope that on the one hand it will give us a chance to develop this wood, which no one wants to pick up today, and it's obtained, on the other hand. Also thanks to the fact that we are expanding the audience It will not happen that foresters are tasked with them, as I said, for example. From the Forest Act, they're gonna have to hold off. This is important because during the debate and in the Sejm, and during the sittings of the Senate committees, there was a concern of the parliamentarian state that the expansion of potential audiences would have an impact on the size of the acquisition, what we are acquiring and how much we are acquiring. And here I would definitely like to say that how many people we have in wood have no impact on how much wood we are producing. This follows, as I said, from the specific tasks put forward by the foresters It is a document approved by the Minister of Environment once every 10 years and is called a plan for the installation of the forest. These plans are subject to extensive consultation. They are prepared outside the State Forests, i.e. by independent experts, and later, as I said, are subject to extensive consultation. So comments to these plans can be submitted by foresters, and NGOs, and any Polish citizen. And these documents are also evaluated because they are sent to the regional environmental directorate for opinion. What is extremely important: in this project introducing a new definition of energy wood, we have just written down that energy wood cannot be long wood and logs, i.e. so-called. large-sized wood. This should also reassure all those who fear that what Poles think is the most valuable, or thickest tree, will also be treated as energy wood. Oh, no. From this definition, it is clear that large-sized wood is long and logs It will not be considered as energy wood. Another point: the definition in the draft was taken from the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, Annex 9. This proposal, as it contains technical provisions, had to be notified to the European Commission. As we have prepared this project because of this sudden, unexpected epidemic situation, we have also requested urgent notification from the European Commission. These arguments which we have put forward, the Commission considered it appropriate and the notification was actually received within a shorter period of time under the urgency procedure. At the same time, we used the extraordinary mode to process this project under Polish law, using the rules of procedure of the Council of Ministers, which allows for a separate, faster mode, applied due to exceptional circumstances. Perhaps this is also the answer for the senators to the question of why there was no public consultation. We took advantage of the legal possibility of a separate mode. So much for the project itself. If I may, by the way, refer to those votes that have already been cast by the Senators of the two committees... A few lines. I strongly agree with what Senator Hibner has said that this project, which is only in force until the end of December 2021, should last much longer. If we were to actually talk about a long-term solution to the problem, it should be longer. But at the same time, I would like to point out that we have deliberately applied a shorter term. For a few reasons. The first was the concern of the woodworking industry that the energy industry would be some kind of competition for them, although we are convinced that for various reasons it would not be. However, in response to the concerns of the woodworking industry, we proposed a temporary application of this provision. I would also like to point out that during the meeting of the Environment Committee... One amendment, which, if I recall correctly, was accepted by the committee, was to shorten this term of validity. So, ladies and gentlemen, you can already see that the two Senate committees, the economic committee and the environmental committee have a completely separate approach to this subject. This also shows how we have found ourselves as a government, trying to find, let's call it a golden measure between natural needs, needs arising from specific principles, economic needs and expectations of the wood industry. Senator Gawłowski expressed his concern that introducing a new definition of energy wood could mean the loss of the biodiversity of Polish forests or its decline. Mr. Senator didn't clarify that. I think the fear... Mr. Senator referred to the protests of environmental organizations. It is a concern that we will not leave dead wood in the woods, which is obvious to every naturalist, and to foresters in particular, because they very consciously leave dead wood in the woods... Dead wood plays a specific, extremely necessary role in nature. It is worth pointing out that Polish foresters not only know about it, they not only understand it, they not only feel it, but also implement certain... In the regulations that apply to them, i.e. in the Forest Protection Manual, these rules are written as guidelines for implementation by Polish foresters. Dead wood, among other things. a place of very valuable species of insects, saproxylic insects. I would like to point out that in the last decade the number of dead wood in Polish forests has increased significantly. Less than 10 years ago, we talked about the amount of wood that is consciously left in the forest to natural decay, i.e. the so-called. Dead wood is estimated to be about 50 million m3. Today, when we make estimates for 2019, it turns out that we are already talking about nearly 60 million m3. That's, like, 58 million, if I remember correctly. This shows that from the original amount of 5 m3 of wood dead with 1 ha we already reach almost 8 m3. Why doesn't changing the definition affect the amount of dead wood? Because we're not talking about getting and removing from the forest the most valuable wood of dead, thick, specific species, especially deciduous species, on a particular habitat, in given thermal conditions. That's all... In addition to the amount of wood, the quality of this wood is also extremely important from a security point of view. We are talking about the fact that our actions as foresters should be correlated with the threat that appears. What we care about most is that if we don't get past the root, at least go next to it, next to the pest. We want fresh wood to be harvested so fast that the rootstone does not spread further and that it does not lead to the large-scale extinction of Polish forests. It's the dead or dying wood we care about, not... As part of talking about energy wood, we are absolutely not talking about biocenetic species or hollow trees. I think this is some sort of response to concerns about the risk of biodiversity loss. Today we are all aware of the fact that the world is facing a crisis of biodiversity loss. I think that Polish foresters, for many years now, not today, when all experts are calling for this, but for many years now they have been taking action against increasing biodiversity or maintaining the level that we have. At the same time, they are taking action to increase the resilience of Polish forests and adapt them to changing climate conditions. In many places it is one of the main tasks of foresters. Lite stands are rebuilt into mixed stands, are introduced in more deciduous species, and this is the good, definitely good direction. And at the end of the day, a very important thing you don't talk about either. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that if today we lead to the situation that in huge areas there will be a collapse of the stand, it will mean that in the next few years we will lose the chance on the one hand of an effective renewal, because without obtaining this wood it will certainly be difficult and delayed, which should, I think, disturb the wood industry, and on the other hand we will not necessarily increase biodiversity. As I say, in many cases they are coniferous species, often in younger age classes, mostly attacked by spicy bark, when it comes to pine, and printer bark, when it comes to spruce. And by the way, I'm going to make one more point. Today we have this situation when wood from Polish forests other than those on the Board of State Forests can go to burning. This is the case, for example, for local power plants, urban power plants, which are interested in wood biomass and are producing small-dimensional wood, wood or waste, and benefit from it. Therefore, the State Forests are the only manager that is excluded from this, only because the 2012 Regulation contains specific sort of quality-dimensional classification used only in the State Forests, and the State Forests cannot transfer this wood to energy. Let's remember that at that time energy It also shows that we, on the one hand, burning this wood from abroad, are saving the situation in neighbouring countries, because we know that the situation in the Czech Republic is already catastrophic, that the situation in Germany is extremely difficult... I hope that thanks to the actions that we are undertaking and the rational economy, the sustainable, multifunctional economy that we have been doing in Poland for years, we will be able to avoid the catastrophe that our neighbours are experiencing. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u69	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please ask Senator Wojciech Piecha's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have three short questions for the Minister. This law extends the catalogue of recipients to professional energy. What is the estimated energy demand for wood you're proposing to sell right now... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I have one request: closer to the microphone please.]] Yeah, okay. What is the estimated energy demand for this wood that the State Forests offer? Second question. We produce about 39 million m3 of wood. Do we also export some of this wood to foreign markets? What are the directions for this export? How many trees do we import and what species do we import? And the next question is: how will the pandemic affect the condition of the State Forests, their revenues in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u71	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, it is difficult for me to determine what is the energy demand. I can rely on the data that I mentioned earlier, i.e. that these 2 million m3 are imported to Poland from abroad, and at the same time in our country, it is possible to say that more than 2 million m3 of unclaimed wood is due. Which shows that if this definition, which we are introducing today, had already been in force, perhaps there would have been no accumulation of this amount of wood in Polish forests and stopping or restricting the acquisition by Polish foresters. Nevertheless, I, when preparing this project, did not hide, was not entirely driven by energy demand. It was more important to me. the need for Polish nature, Polish forests, to conduct specific treatments that are necessary in order to prevent - I hope that this will never happen. Ecological disaster. As far as sales to foreign customers are concerned, we have made such a statement since 2017, in connection with certain allegations that appear in the media space, taking into account the recipients who are standing for tender proceedings in the forests. And so: in 2017 it was almost 1 million 800 thousand m3 of wood, which went to foreign customers. In 2018, it was less than 2.5 million m3. In 2019 it is already 1 million 200 thousand m3. And in 2020 it's 500,000 m3 when it comes to half a year. I would like to point out that in 2017 and 2018, and probably in part also 2019, this is the famous disaster. But this also shows that if we harvest wood within 40 million m3, foreign customers represent a small percentage of customers. Which is very important, we can't limit sales... we can't, for example. close the sales so that it is only for the Polish industry, although I do not hide that I would be open to it. If the senators are able to help me, I will, of course, benefit from this legislation so that it does not affect freedom of access to the market. Nevertheless, I think that the data I've shown indicates that it's still a small percentage. The vast majority of wood goes to Polish companies. And the third question: if I remember correctly, was the impact of COVID on the situation in Polish forests, financial situation, financial condition. We have obtained information from the State Forests that, in terms of the situation from 2020, i.e. the drop in revenue resulting from the reduction in acquisition and sales, we already have, in relation to the plan, over 600 million less. And we're only talking about half a year. 600 million less than the passing of time... And even if we're trying to get back to the economy today, we can't make up for the lost months. This is also the result of decisions taken by the management in the State Forests to reduce costs. On the other hand, the very large number of people who have reported... who reach retirement age is estimated to be over 1,000 people And in the near future, as part of their natural exit from the State Forests, they will probably also largely translate into a cost reduction. Forests have also decided to reduce many investments, although, of course, where they are continued investments, of course there is no blockade. Everything is dictated by some kind of rationality. Here, by the way, why don't I just say... Senator Gawłowski recalled data from a few years ago, according to which the average salary in the State Forests is over PLN 8,000. Well, today the average salary in the State Forests is 6,000 600 PLN, which shows that these personnel costs are also lower.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u73	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Just a little bit. Of course, I am a member of the Committee on the Environment, I was at the meeting of this committee, I tabled an amendment, and if she passes... she has passed, but if the law is adopted, the amendment will apply, although its importance was not as great as you later justified it, because the protection of this biodiversity also guarantees other laws. I would like to make sure that I have understood the intention of this law, namely to modify the definition of energy wood. It follows that we have too much wood, which we cannot use, because there is, for example. expensive, because it is classified as wood of a better species. Meanwhile, from abroad we import wood for commercial purposes. In fact, there is hope in changing the definition of energy wood for improving the finances of the forestry department. Am I getting this right? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No? Well, there's a lot of wood like that, and the cause is COVID. Well, COVID's economy is a little rusty and disturbing, and one of the statements made by Minister Wosia, the Minister for the Environment, said that it must be cut down after all, because the workers must have a job. Could you possibly comment on this, on these two of my questions, possibly explain whether I am wrong or not, on this first and second point? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u75	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u76	Senator, thank you very much for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to quote the entire history of creating the definition of energy wood to which we have been obliged by the law of the year, if I remember correctly, 2015. This was supposed to be within the framework of the regulation and we prepared such a regulation in agreement with the Ministry of Development, with the wood industry. It took a long time, it was very difficult to reach a compromise, but last year, if I remember correctly, probably in August 2019, we passed on the draft regulation ready to be notified to the European Commission. During the work in the European Commission, we have been drawn to a number of points. I have here the answer sent from the European Commission and I will quote here. On the basis of the notified project, which implements the definition of energy wood, we are talking about the regulation contained in Article. The 2015 Act of 119a exempts certain forms of wood from use in the production of biofuels and may therefore not contribute to national renewable energy targets. The notified draft Regulation appears to exclude wood which meets the sustainability criteria laid down in Article. 17 of the RED1 Directive. This is contrary to Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 the RED1 Directive, according to which Member States may not refuse to take account of bioethanol obtained in accordance with Article. 17 of this directive for other reasons relating to sustainable development. In addition, the notified project may also not comply with the recast version of the Renewable Energy Directive, called RED2. Finally, the Commission asked Poland to take these comments into account. As a result, we had three choices. Namely, either to adopt this regulation, which I have read to you, to which the European Commission has had reservations, and to implement it with full premeditated intent, knowing that it does not comply with the provisions of these 2 directives, or to start working on a new regulation, which would seem possible, but unfortunately the remark that our regulation has shown that it cannot regulate this market for bioliquids... This should be in the bill. We have accepted the solution, in particular, that COVID appeared, which showed all the negative aspects that I had already mentioned before, that we should adopt, as a matter of urgency, what seems to be the easiest, that is that we do not add anything to each other and we do not think about it, but we are adopting a definition that is directly applicable in the directive. And so we did. As regards this wood raw material excluding large-sized wood, this is a definition directly from the EU directive. And that's probably a very important issue. As for the Minister's statement about the workers who have to have a job, I think it's a thought shortcut. I guess it could have been the Minister's intention that wood in Polish forests is sourced by external forest service facilities, i.e. small entrepreneurs who are involved in these activities in favour of Polish forests have signed specific agreements, and limiting the extraction of wood would also result in the fact that we would be able to reduce their work, it would even be necessary, we would not be able to. At the same time, forests from the beginning, despite the limitation of acquisition, did not limit the conservation activities and farming activities which were necessary and recorded in the contracts to be carried out by these ZULs. And I think if the Minister said... I do not know this statement, and therefore I find it difficult to refer to it, but if he was talking about workers who have to have a job, I think he might have meant forest service companies that had specific contracts. From my point of view, once again, the most important thing is the sustainability and stability of Polish forests. I realize that even if today we think it's the dying wood attacked by pests, and we're probably dealing with this disaster that the Czechs, the Germans have been fighting for a long time now... If you look, also in publicly available media information, for information on the situation in the Czech Republic, you will see that they show that to the catastrophic year 2018 this drought, i.e. the extraction of wood from sanitary cuts, was in the range of 2 and 3 million, in the following years it has already increased to 20 million, and in 2019 it is already talking about more than 30 million m3 obtained precisely in the fight against the barker. We would not like to lead to the situation that sanitary cuts will increase to such a level, and the many actions we are taking are maybe parallel, maybe no longer ahead, but I hope that those that will allow us not to lead to the situation in which those countries are in. There is no denying that we are also dealing with weakened stands, because it is precisely these weakened stands that the barkstone is more likely to enter, and this is the result of conditions and climate change, which we have seen for several years now, a huge drought from the year, if I remember correctly, probably 2015 and water scarcity. Today we are all beginning to feel this effect. And one more remark on this occasion. Very often one of the allegations was that perhaps this wood offered by the State Forests on the Polish market is too expensive and therefore entrepreneurs reach for wood from abroad. First thing. There is no denying that the State Forests, as I said, do not obtain wood by their own means, but commission these works outside, and the rates of forest service facilities are calculated so that they can pay their employees. In many places, especially in the south of Poland, the price of wood fell and there were already such situations that it was at the limit of collection costs, and in individual cases also below these costs. So it is not true what I think sounded even in the statements of Senator Gawłowski, i.e. that the price has increased. Absolutely not, the price of wood falls, and in some cases, e.g. in the south of Poland, it is definitely falling, even below the cost of obtaining. On the other hand, we must also be aware that Germany, Czechs, to its forest management, pays for wood from the state budget. This is also extremely important, because Polish foresters do not reach for such subsidies, and in the Forest Act they have the principle of self-financing. But in order not to be literal, I'd like to give you specific amounts. In Germany, if I remember correctly, we're talking about an extra payment within the limits... Within 4 years, this is a support of EUR 800 million, which gives PLN 2.5 billion in addition to forestry. Germany is a power when it comes to the wood market; and this shows how much they fight to keep this possibility of being a power. They are able to pay very much only to give foresters tools to maintain a given amount of wood, because it is not a fight for today, it is a fight for the future. We would also like Polish foresters to have such tools. As I said, I do not believe that the introduction of the definition of energy wood will automatically solve all the problems, absolutely not. However, I hope that at least in some part we will be able to manage this wood, which is already harvested and lags.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u77	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u78	The Minister, after your speeches, I thought of a lot of questions, so I will be asking these questions in succession. Minister, first of all, tell me if you've made such a balance... I'm talking about employers' voices here. It's about how... Whether the state or the Ministry of Economy, or in an interministerial team, you were doing... Is there an economic analysis regarding the introduction of the concept of energy wood? This concept enters the market, it operates on the market. How will this affect prices and wood-related industries? Senator Gawłowski said how big the industry is. Is there such an analysis? That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, I'd like to ask... That'll probably be a later, further question. Tell me how much, let's say, a year I'm addressing a professional You need to cut out this sanitary wood in order to meet the objectives of forest protection, the fight against barkstones and other forest destroyers? That's one thing. And a second question about it. If we cut the sanitary wood, is it only suitable to burn under RES? So I'm asking you how much you have to cut out a month and if this wood is only suitable for burning. After these two answers, I'll probably ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u79	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u80	How much do you cut a year to meet your goals... It doesn't happen that way, it's exactly the opposite. The quantity comes from the needs, so we don't assume that a minimum of some percentage must be taken out of the forest to ensure stability, only... First of all, I'm talking about the plan of the forest equipment, which is drawn up once every 10 years. And it arises as a result of experts entering the forest, passing through every separation, observing what a given forest looks like, studying from the ground level, and even under the ground, because it's also deep-sighted research... [[Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u82	Minister, I'm asking you not to tell the whole story of the development plan or what's called the 10-year plan of the forest or something. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Plan of forest equipment.]] ...plan of the forest device, just answer me. If you're using all the instruments you're talking about, how much of this 10-year-old forest device program is gonna be... It's an estimate. If it's not in the forward-looking plan, then it can be calculated backwards, how much is there, when we get 40 million m3 in some other... How much is a year's production or a month's production of this sanitary wood? Of course, as the Minister said, if we have such a pest disaster as in the Czech Republic, Germany or Austria... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: It will grow.]] ...it's gonna grow, of course. But there are plans. Tell me how much we've been getting this sanitary wood and how much we're gonna get. I'm not talking about a disaster, a pest raid on the Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u83	Sanitary cuts are such cuts that are not planned, which are not recorded in the plan of the forest's equipment. Foresters within the framework of the so-called "forestry." The cuts of the occasional accretion plan approximately 10% for unforeseen previous actions. And this is included in the plan of the forest device. I was giving an example of the Czech Republic. By 2018, they had a 20%, a $2.3 million acquisition rate, and today we are talking about more than 30 million m3. I hope we never reach that level. We have foresters who are very careful about nature conservation, and with us action in the fight against the barker is carried out in advance. Well, except for the situation we've been observing for a few months, when it had to be limited...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u84	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u85	Minister, tell me how many records we've had, we've been selling for last year. It's this sanitary wood.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u86	Acquired as part of casual cuts? I need to see if I can give you any specific information. [[So we don't know?]] I'm not gonna tell you out of my mind. [[Right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u87	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, room 217. [[I'm here...]] I'm just gonna have to go right next to the microphone...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u88	Yes, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have one main question. I come from Lubuskie voivodship, where we have a forest of more than 50% There are municipalities that have more than 80% of this forest. And we know the problems involved. We have wood processing facilities on our premises, on behalf of which I would like to ask you a question. We're talking about an excess of wood... I don't think anybody's discussing that there's anything to do about the sanitary wood. Did you consult with producers in the woodworking industry who employ around 400,000 people? We have about 26,000 foresters, and we have more than 400,000 people in the woodworking industry. Isn't there going to be a danger, that is. Is it such an incentive to make energy as if it were sucking on good wood that can be converted? Because if it's sanitary wood that's useless, no one's discussing it. Just make sure that you know that there will be no danger that this good wood will not run out for processing plants, which we have plenty of. In Lubuskie voivodship, for example, Kronopol, Stelmet, are the largest producers in Europe. They also buy wood of inferior quality, make it a plate, it's ground... I'm not a tech guy, so I'm not gonna talk. As far as I know, they're terrified of this bill. This good wood may not be enough, because energy... The emergence of a big player on the market, which will have a huge demand for wood, can cause those timber producers who employ, as I mentioned earlier, about 400 thousand people, to have problems. So please reassure me that this is about poor quality wood, energy wood that is not suitable for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u89	Yes, sir, I'd like to reassure the senator. The rules for the sale of wood in the Polish State Forests sort of divides wood in a proportion of 80 to 20 in terms of percentages. 80% wood is only offered to customers who have their history in collecting wood from forests. It means that energy that doesn't have a story like that will not even be able to proceed with the 80%. ...Only up to 20%, which... This percentage distribution is also related to the possibility of giving new players, i.e. new woodworking companies, the chance to enter the market and make a long-term development of this history too. That's 20%. is actually the most common wood, which within this pool 80% Nobody bought or picked up. It is then passed on to the so-called. auction and only within this 20% Maybe I should say, start the energy industry. There's one thing I'm paying attention to. Also, let us remember this in particular. The fact that large-sized wood is excluded from the energy pool, so the furniture industry will in no way be affected by these provisions. If we're talking about the fact that the wood that no one picked up is going to auction, the wood of inferior quality... this wood could only be interested in the plate manufacturing industry. I'm paying attention to one thing. We already have this situation, we know the cases we've diagnosed... On the basis of some cases, we come to the conclusion that it is not only the price of wood that translates directly into a desire or lack of willingness to receive a given range. We are also talking about transport or technological issues. The situation presented to me by the State Forests serves as an example. When selling small-sized wood, so-called. Wood residues... Wood is sold locally to existing district heating and district heating plants. And even in a situation where this raw material is sold for a zloty for 1 m3 on a self-made basis, and this happens e.g. in the area of RDLP in Zielona Góra, in the vicinity of one of the largest wood-based panels production plants... This plant does not acquire this raw material, which shows that this argument is not quite... that it is certainly not a decisive argument. It is also worth pointing out that in 2017 the Consumer Protection Authority issued a decision punishing producers of wood-based panels for collusive pricing. If I remember correctly, the 5 producers were one of the largest producers of this penalty. So I think there are other aspects here, too. Once again, I am calming down: the implementation of the new definition will not jeopardise the wood industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u90	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister about some of the things she herself touched in her speech. They're not clear enough for me. Minister says many countries As an example, you give our southern neighbours a similar example. In a special way, you gave a few sentences to our western neighbour, Germany, saying that it is power and that Germany even provides for huge subsidies for its forests in order to implement these plans. I would like to ask whether those countries that you call back, and perhaps others, are prioritising the burning of their forests, or whether they want to industrially process wood. I ask because after what you said, I think that all other countries, just like Poland, just want to burn, burn and burn wood. I would also like to ask what is the economic efficiency of the State Forests. I'm asking for two variants and a great deal of simplification. I ask about the sale of wood for industrial processing and the sale of wood for combustion by energy. Is the price in such a way that one of these options is more economically efficient for the State Forests themselves? Here's another question. I'm talking about green certificates. I would like to ask what is the situation with regard to Polish energy in terms of fulfilling the obligations imposed on Poland under European Union law. Are we fulfilling these requirements 100% Is there a shortage? Because it may be suspected that the use of wood for burning, not for industrial processing, is so de facto intended In addition to making money from its sales, of course, fulfilling plans for green certificates, fulfilling the ecological or climatic conditions that Polish energy is putting in place within the European Union. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u92	You're welcome, Minister. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u93	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. As for the question of green certificates and energy, this is the question to the Ministry of Climate. I do not feel entitled in any way to answer them, but of course I will ask the Climate Minister to give such an answer. As far as economic efficiency is concerned, in the case of wood that buys energy and wood that goes to industry, it seems that contrary to what the senator said, it will not be that wood will go to energy instead of wood industry. If it does not go to the wood industry, it will not be obtained, then it will be allocated to the auction, from which it will be able to benefit energy, only that wood will then lose quality and therefore its price will fall. Therefore, such wood will be sold at lower prices and not higher than in the case of the wood industry. I would point out that the woodworking industry, even if it is ready to buy so-called. wood of inferior quality, very often calls for wood of the so-called. fresh extraction, not like the one that has been behind us for several months now in the amount of more than 2 million m3. That's the kind of wood the industry isn't interested in. When it comes to the priorities of the European countries, it does not belong to them, as the senator called it ugly... Mr. Senator asked if it was a priority to smoke wood. I don't know what other countries are doing. For us, of course, this is not a priority, which I have been trying to explain to you for a long time. For me the priority is definitely stability, the sustainability of Polish forests. That's what we're doing. If we look at the share of wood for energy purposes in individual countries, we will see that in the case of Poland in 2010 it was 0.51 m3/ha, and in the case of Germany 0,94 m3/ha. Let's move on to 2016. In the case of Poland, the percentage was 12% , and in the case of Germany, 18%. Cyprus, the Netherlands, Italy, Denmark, France, Liechtenstein are all over 50%. Later there are Hungary, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Croatia, Romania, Estonia, Lithuania, Austria, Spain, Slovenia, Luxembourg, Turkey, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. They all have a bigger share than Poland. Czech Republic has 14.5% there are also several countries behind Poland: Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Portugal, Sweden and Slovakia. This shows that this share is increasing compared to 2010, but it is certainly much higher in those countries than in our country. I would like to point out that when it comes to the transfer of wood to power plants, to district heating plants, they have so far received mainly small-dimensional wood and chrust. This was the case, for example, in the case of Białystok, Biała Podlaskie, Chorzowa and Ciechanowa district heating plants, I could also exchange. So it is for them a kind of advantage or sort of thing they use. But today, let's talk about the temporary definition of energy wood, once again. The one the woodworking industry no longer wants to pick up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u94	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u95	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'll come back again... Because I didn't get the answer to the second question. But you asked Senator Tyszkiewicz. In part, you replied, saying that wood for industry, widely understood industry, would not run out of this good wood. But I asked if the state, the resort of the economy or any other resort did an analysis of what was involved in the impact of this decision to increase... Because, I understand, there will be an increase in the amount of wood that will go towards the energy wood. Because I think that's why you're doing this bill to increase the amount of wood that's going to be energy wood. Is there any analysis of how this increase in quantity of these, I don't know, 10% The ones you were talking about, to, let's say, 17% or 14% Like in the Czech Republic... Will this in any way affect the rest of the woodworking industry? That's the first question. And you said, quoting very interesting data, showing that in some countries there are 50% And I think we're... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: 14%.]] 14% We've got 14%. As a professional, I'd like to ask the Minister if you might know. I'm very curious about that. Why there's 50 and there's 14 of us there. I suppose so, but I'd like to confirm. If you know. And the question I'd like to get an answer to in writing if you can't answer it now. You said you had to cut it out. I'm just gonna put it a shortcut, so not exactly, more or less. 'Cause there are, among other things. forest service establishments that have contracts and have to do something. Well, it's obvious that when you have contracts with forest service companies, you have to order them to do it or terminate the contract. And there's a cost. Would you mind, Minister... Are such analyses available next year, e.g. 2019, 2018 or more, how much in the price of the annual collection... So let's say we got 40 million m3 of wood, sold it, got the right amount. The annual prices of the forest services we have paid are that much and that's that. Can I get that kind of data? Yes? Or do I repeat, Minister? We cut 40 million m3 each year. We sell it, we get some money. It's being cut off by forest service plants. How much per year are the costs of a forest service establishment? I'm curious because you said that, well, a lot of value when it comes to... Different. The forest service facilities constitute a large cost value for the balance sheet year concerned. I'm interested in how globally... What kind of a whole thing would that be? And that's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u96	Of course, the answer to this question will be difficult because the costs of forest services not only the costs of obtaining, but also the other costs. So here I will have to ask the State Forests to specify to me how much the total costs incurred by forest service providers are exclusively the costs associated with the acquisition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u97	Mr. Marshal, can I fill in? Just so we understand each other. Minister, I'm talking about this... data that is... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: How much in the cost of...]] Because it's gonna be harder for me... The Minister will be easier to get this data than I am. 40 million m3 we cut, sold. We've got... Whether or not they I'm talking about forest service plants, they planted the forest, they preserved the forest, they tried, something plowed, sprayed, etc., there's a year's cost of contracts... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Acquisitions...]] ...with forest service facilities. Not winning. All the treatments. Because forest service companies don't just provide clipping services... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Yes, I know.]] ...just plowing, sowing, splashing. They do a lot of things. So when we got the income, 40 million, we had to pay some costs to get them to do it. Because they're not just getting wood. They're doing something else there. What are the proportions? It's very... If this data could be obtained...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u98	I'm looking at the representatives of the State Forests here... I don't know if they have that information on hand. But, of course, in writing... Because I have that amount in my mind, but I'm afraid to give it to you right now, because if it turns out I'm wrong, then you'll be paying me off later. So I prefer to declare my reply in writing. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, you dropped it like... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I mean, we were talking about these... Okay, you didn't. We were talking about those words I said to indicate that this acquisition is because we want to pay forest service companies because we have a signed contract with them. I note that I was referring to the translation of the Minister's words, which I was asked for because they asked why the Minister used such words. But, of course, the State Forests have contracts with entrepreneurs, betting... [[In writing, I've already...]] Oh, okay. [[And are there any analyses regarding... if we increase the percentage...]] If we widen the audience...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u99	Do you have an analysis of how this will affect the industry? And that's the question... If you know the answer, please, and if you don't, then... Why in Other Countries I suppose so, but I'm looking for confirmation. 50% is obtained. This wood as wood... And we're 14%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u100	I mean, of course, it would have to be studied in the rules for the sale of wood in those countries, because they have their definitions of energy wood. I can't relate to how they offer this wood to the market. For us, from the point of view of energy and the wood industry, 80% of what I was talking about is crucial. Up to 20%. So this wood guarantee for the Polish industry is and results from the internal regulations of the State Forests. And what they don't want to pick up any more woodworking plants, which is wood of the worst quality... Then its price is automatically lower and, I think, it can become a subject of energy interest. Because I don't believe that if these are high prices, energy will also pay off, even though there will be such a definition. [[I'm sorry I'm whining. Let me remind you again that...]] As for the details, of course... [[No, no, no.]] ...Ministry of Development such analyses in terms of economy... [[Do you have an analysis of how this will affect the market? I understand there's no such analysis.]] I would point out that this law will apply for a year, and in my opinion it will not have a significant impact on the wood industry market. So, what I'm talking about. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But the analysis is in the Ministry of Development. If you'd like, I can perform... Because the bill was consulted with the Minister of Development. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u101	I think we're gonna end here because it's already slowly turning into discussion and polemics. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Adam Szejnfeld and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Janusz Błucherz was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing a law on amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, which consists of 3 articles, of which art. 3 sets out only its date of entry into force. The purpose of this law, as stated in the statement of reasons, is to introduce a solution to ensure the continuity of sustainable forest management for the duration of and after the state of COVID-19. And it would seem that there would be no long discussion over the statutory provisions, because, as I mentioned earlier, these are only 3 articles, and the solutions introduced are only to apply until the end of December 2021. However, the content of these articles aroused great emotions both at the seymical stage and during the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment. I do not mention any protests before the Sejm during the debate on this bill. It was protested against her introduction. The draft law entered the Sejm as a government submission on 1 July 2020. No public consultation was carried out on the bill, hence a strong difference of opinion between government representatives and numerous non-governmental organisations, 31 signatories, associations representing companies in the furniture and pulp and paper sectors and scientists of universities and institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. A total of 66 scientists signed the letter to the Minister of Environment and the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. And in fact, as I am listening to this discussion today, I dare say that if this consultation had already been conducted, I would have ignored such typical consultations as have been held in the case of a bill that I would have the pleasure of reporting today, i.e. changes in traffic law, I am only talking about meetings with people who could say something, who wrote to us, also wrote to ministers, to marshals, to senators. This would probably convince you in part that you have a lot of right here, making some changes. Of course, most of the comments I have are about changing the definition of energy wood, as was mentioned today. Its adoption, according to those who submit their comments, can lead to the devastation of the nature of Polish forests, the deepening of the biodiversity crisis in Polish forests or the reduction of the quantity of wood available for processing for the whole forest and wood sector, as it can be taken over by the energy sector, which has already happened in the past. However, according to the principle of cascade wood use and the hierarchy of waste management, wood burning for electricity production should take place at the end of the cycle. Forced changes of law, without proper public consultation and without an assessment of the natural effects of this legislation, can not only have disastrous consequences for the forests themselves, but also aggravate the climate crisis. When analysing the government's proposed amendment to the Renewable Energy Act, it is important to remember the disastrous consequences I already talked about this at the meeting of the Environment Commission, which could bring the Act of 16 December 2016 on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act and the Law on Forests, Journal of the Law of 2016. 2249, which was the result of the work on the draft Act on the revision of the Nature Conservation Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2017. I will only mention that this law introduces a very large facilitation of the possibility of removing trees and shrubs from the property areas belonging to natural persons or from road lanes, also increases tree trunk circuits on which no permit was required, and other issues have been changed. These changes have resulted in massive logging in the country within a few weeks. There was a shortage of companies that dealt with this activity, even companies or employees from Ukraine, often with their equipment, did not keep up with the execution of numerous orders related to the removal of trees and shrubs to prepare investment parcels much cheaper, because without trees. Very many protests from different backgrounds have led to the necessary changes to this very bad bill. This law was fortunately amended very quickly, the new law entered into force already on 1 July 2017, i.e. it was in force for six months. Fortunately, many trees that are protected by the Nature Conservation Act have been preserved. Let's hope it's a similar situation. And here's my fear. It did not take place after the Act on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act was implemented today. The Minister has explained a lot, but many questions are being asked, and I am also asking these questions. These numerous questions come from various sources. I can't believe 60 professors who sign their name in writing don't know what they're writing about. I cannot believe that the representatives of the Polish Papermakers Association and the furniture industry do not know what they are writing about either. What guarantees do we have that co-incineration will only be accumulated and found in the woods today? Isn't there gonna be a mass clipping? trees as biomass for Polish power plants? How much more renewable energy will be needed at the cost of burning our forests? These are just a few questions that we should know the answers to to vote in favour of these legislative changes. In order to ensure that the legislative changes do not produce the negative effects that I said earlier, the following solutions should be considered. Senator Gawłowski also spoke about them. The first is to reject the law in its entirety. I voted in favour of rejecting it at the meeting of the Environment Committee, but then I tabled amendments on which I am about to come. Even if the Senate had passed a resolution on the rejection of the bill, which may be the case today, it is highly likely that the majority of the Parliament will implement the bill without amendment. I had a situation like this when I was processing sugar taxes. Many industrialists have asked me to make amendments so that I do not reject the bill, because the rejection of the bill will result in the adoption of it in the Seym without amendments, and in the course of a week or two, perhaps somebody will consider these amendments and take something into account. Well, that's what happened. The second option is to amend and amend this law. 1, i.e. introduce the definition of energy wood as proposed by the Polish Papermakers Association. Most of you know this definition, about which the Polish Papermakers Association writes. I'm not reading that definition anymore. The third is to shorten the deadline. I'll take it from here. In order to limit the adverse effects of the law. Why? The Minister said that even two committees here do not agree that the economic committee is talking about extending the deadline Why only until 31 December 2021? and the Committee on the Environment voted to shorten it. My amendment made with the senator who did this is a short cut to... First it was only three months, and then, after analysis, we changed the date. We proposed that it be until 31 December 2021. Sorry, until 30 March 2021, which is 9 months less. Why nine months less? To see how this bill will work. We can tonight... COVID allows for a lot of things. Everyone in this room knows that, and the government also knows that. COVID allows you to speed things up. If this bill doesn't work properly, or the deadline for March 31 is too short... We can check it out a little longer. In the Seym and the Senate, we can reschedule the case within a month. I propose that we try to accept such an amendment if the bill is not rejected. These were the amendments I proposed at the Environment Committee meeting. They were adopted by a majority. We will see today what else will appear in the course of our discussion when it comes to the amendments to the contested law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, like Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, come from wooded areas in more than 50%, from Lubuskie soil. I would like to speak after many discussions with the people of the forest, people who have lived in the woods for generations and have done many things in this forest who have seen wise things and stupid things. I would like to take the floor on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, because I promised this to people who know about it. I promised the papermakers, but I also promised the producers of garden furniture, which in our land of Lubuskie is not much. And I would like to say more about the project on the introduction of the definition of energy wood, which allows for the use by burning unclaimed wood raw material. The increase in wood burning in power plants makes absolutely no business sense. It does not protect nature, but threatens it. This is said by experts from the energy, furniture and natural industries. I think it's one of the most controversial economic ideas this year. Moreover, experts point out that only State Forests will make money on this fundamental change. And I think that's what this is all about. The project itself was prepared by the Ministry absolutely without public consultation. As I said at committee meetings Today I asked the Senator of the rapporteur a question. The article was broken. 34 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I know that it doesn't bother the Members. Revision of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources in Instant Mode... We, senators of the 9th term, know how this is done, and now he's doing it. The Sejm, too. This amendment, so to speak, has scored 3 readings this week. We know how it happens after that. The PiS Members, of course, rejected all the opposition amendments. We know that, too. We'll fix it later. I hope this is, however, a practice that will end slowly. The amendment of the law extends the definition of energy wood, i.e. that wood, which can be burned in power plant kilns as biomass. The Minister of the Environment also wants to consider as energy wood: sawing and sawing logs, by-products resulting from the processing of wood raw materials, wood raw materials which are not sawdust and sawn wood. According to the Minister, the Ministry simply wants to send about 2 million m3 of wood to the furnaces, which was not picked up by the wood industry. Ecologists ask why trees are cut in excess when demand is lacking. The arguments for nature conservation rarely go to the members of the governing party, who have already proven, on many occasions, how insignificant nature conservation is to them. Remember, the world doesn't end with us. It is our duty to ensure that future generations can enjoy the beauty of our nature as well. That's how lovely the Senator rapporteur talked about it at the end. I agree that generations can enjoy the beauty of our nature. Apart from environmentalists, the furniture business also stands side by side and reaches for concrete arguments. Namely the wood industry protests against waste of wood in kilns For example, entrepreneurs could convert them into furniture, pallets, plates or garden equipment, because, as I said, we have huge companies that produce and export garden furniture to the whole world. The more the competition will be uneven, because energy wood will unfortunately be subsidised. We believe that it is wasteful to use any wood material for energy purposes, which can be used as raw material for further processing in the processing industry. Such raw materials should not be covered by subsidies. It was written by entrepreneurs in the wood industry, and I think most of the senators are familiar with it. Burning wood in large power plants in the longer term really does not make any environmental and economic sense. Biomass in a large power plant will soon be eliminated. It is difficult to disagree with the opinion of Dr Joanna Macikowiak-Pandery, former Deputy Minister for the Environment, currently President of the Energy Forum, according to which such development of biomass makes sense at most in local system heating. Or in dedicated blocks, but not in energy, the more that such a step will harm other sectors of the economy, dependent on supply from the forest. In my opinion and in my opinion, many who know about it are immoral when other renewable sources are available and other sectors of the economy need much more wood. From the perspective of energy development, it is particularly pointless to co-burn biomass in large energy blocks. The additional revenue for green certificates manufacturers does not serve innovation or the construction of new power. In practice, biomass is burned in the oldest carbon blocks, designed to be shut down anyway. After all, we all know that they will be turned off any moment now. In her opinion, it is only a matter of time before wood ceases to be considered as a green energy raw material. The same, but even more clearly said scientists from the Polish Academy of Sciences. In their opinion, the classification of forest biomass as RES is simply a big misunderstanding; new trees can be planted and they can capture previously released carbon dioxide, but we will not stop global warming in this way, it is just CO2 reaccounting, not reduction It is a pity that the PIS Members do not want to lean further on the opinions of the experts, Mr Bladder spoke a lot in front of me about this. I also find it reprehensible that no public consultation has been carried out. Ecologists conclude that the project combined fire with water, i.e. seemingly conflicting interests of furniture manufacturers with forest defenders. Minister Wosi managed to do a very special thing. For the first time, he joined environmentalists in protests with the wood business. I never thought it would happen. Ecologists accuse the Ministry that he wants to find one large recipient and sell him this wood from Polish forests at a good price. The Ministry of the Environment argues, stating the justification of the project, that wood in the woods threatens the nature of the woods. But according to environmentalists, it is the opposite. Because decaying trees enrich soil with mineral substances and caries, they are the habitat of protected species of plants, fungi, and animals. There is also much to be blamed for the mode of work on the bill. Although the project was prepared by the Ministry, it was not subject to public consultation. Why did you do that? It's a fracture, like I said before, Art. 34 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I learned one thing from us in the Senate. The fact that projects that hit such violent situations... We senators already know that these are projects prepared on their knees and no one needs them, and then they are amended. I'll meet you here, too. Dear Senators, Madam Minister, what are you going to do in the future, if you lack a root and a coronavirus, justify the clippings of the forest and violently prepared laws? I'm not voting for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must refer here to a few points that have been raised by my predecessors, by Senator Bladder, but mostly by Senator Komarnicki. But before I get to those points, maybe I'll refer to the essence and substance of the bill. This law was prepared by the Ministry of the Environment, but in a very strong agreement with the State Forests, those State Forests, which are common in Europe And I can even say that not only in Europe, because also in the world, it is considered to be an institution that manages forests in an exemplary way. And often State Forests are set in other countries as a role model, not as an institution itself, but as an institution that conducts forest policy well and manages the national resources of state forests. That's the first line. The second point is that if you are today I don't remember whether Senator Bladder or Senator Komarnicki They claim that this draft law has not been consulted and that very important, very important authorities have reservations about this... I would like to say to the senators that the State Forests, which support this law, work high-class specialists, high-level authorities, I think. And if this law were as bad a law as the Citizen Coalition colleagues paint it, believe me: since there are so many substantive, scientific employees of State Forests, and there are trade unions, which often have different kinds of interests. And there are professionals there, too. The negative aspects of this law would be raised. Why are we making this bill? Well, we're preparing whether we've prepared this bill or rather the government has prepared this bill, and in Parliament, it's already passed in the Seym, and I hope it'll be adopted in the Senate as well. This is because we are dealing with an unusual situation. The unusual situation is that we have a surplus in the timber market. I remember myself, and I'd have to remember it, but it was a plus minus about 3 years ago when the representatives of the wood industry came to my senator's office, and as if they were complaining about the State Forests, they said there was a shortage of wood on the market, that they would want to make more of this wood than the State Forests were able to offer. The prices were pretty high. Today, mainly due to the plague of this root, which is not only in Poland, but also The Minister spoke about this. Our neighbors, the Czech Republic, Germany... This has caused that this wood of the worst quality is more in the woods, is overproduction, precisely because of the attack of barkers. If the paper industry, the furniture industry, had picked up this wood today, which is, the 2 million m3 that the Minister mentioned, no one would have come out with such a bill. No one would ever come out with a bill like that. He wants the woodworking industry, furniture industry takes the wood? It's up for grabs. It is available at hand, you can buy it in the State Forests. Of course it's class wood... Well, it's wood, let's say, not the highest quality. If these 2 million m3s are on the market today, and they're not willing to sell them... This wood was cut out according to a plan of clippings, which was mostly accepted by the Civic Platform governments, because the clipping plan is done for 10 years, and we rule less than 5 years, so this clipping plan is still from that time. I don't know who was the Minister of the Environment under the Civic Platform, but you can check that out. If we have wood, the value of which falls every month, whose properties are deteriorating, then use this possibility and in part pass this wood as a biomass for combustion. I'm going to put two arguments here, two fuses. First of all, it will not be that the energy industry suddenly throws itself into this wood and buys out millions of cubic meters. Let us remember that biomass combustion is mainly suitable for small heat and heat plants. PGNiG is probably the owner of such heat and power plants, but most of them are self-government heat and power plants. It is not going to happen that large coal power plants will suddenly start dumping wood in the furnace, because there are technological conditions that prevent it. Well, you can't move it like that from day to day. It could be a supplement, at best. So the main recipient of this energy wood will be small heat and power plants. I don't know how much wood it's gonna be. It's hard to say. We'll see how this works on the market, but it'll be a rather small amount. This is just the launch of another canal of wood disposal, which today It just so happened. I've got an excess. This wood is already cut out, it lies and rots, and over time it will have worse properties. Another element, another such fuse, which guarantees that this disastrous vision that Senator Komarnicki was talking about will not be fulfilled, is that we have entered the date 31 December 2021 into this law. This is not the target solution. If there was no limiter in the form of this date, it would indeed be possible to predict that in the future the State Forests will take up the clipping, that the trees will be cut out massly, that the energy industry will shift, and that wood will be, so to speak, burned massively. Here we're talking about 2021, so we're left, let's say, one and a half years, not even close. The point is just to take the surplus that's already on it off the market. It's wood, you can say, it's wasted because it's losing some properties. If we wait another moment, neither the paper industry nor the wood industry nor the energy industry will simply pick up this wood. We have this fuse here in the form of 2021. This is probably the most important element that guarantees that there will be no mass clippings here. Senator Bladder here said that a new restriction was introduced at the meeting of the Environment Committee, that an amendment was proposed to shorten this period until March. Well, Mr. Senator, a year and a half isn't much. Let us remember that there are different tendering procedures. It doesn't look like someone's just buying wood. Well, the State Forests have certain procedures, too. Before we run this thing, before we... well, it's gonna take months. It's not like somebody can drive up tonight and get the wood out of the woods. So I think that the end of 2021 is such a reasonable time horizon in which we will be able to effectively dispose of this wood for the energy industry. And two last remarks. Well, Mr. Marshal lets you know discreetly that I'm running out of time. The first point is that Senator Komarnicki said something that was very unelegant. He said that the PiS Members did not feel ecology. Well, that's the charges, Mr. Senator, don't bet. Because my colleagues and my fellow Members of the PIS in the Sejm, as we are here, senators, are sensitive to these ecological problems. And I wouldn't want to be mean to say how much you cared about ecology when fekalia was pouring into the river. And then there were no environmental protests. At that time, the Senators and Members of the Civic Platform did not follow. If it were not for the quick response of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, who launched the army, the ecological effects of this disaster would be gigantic. So I would very much ask you not to accuse that PiS generally does not want here... or feel environmental problems. And finally, the last sentence. I'm making an amendment that I think is even more... The amendment concerns a certain protection of wood raw material, so that it is said, coming from protected areas, various forms of nature conservation and their shelters. So, I think this amendment will somehow protect even more... it will condemn these possible charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u107	Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I agree with Senator Komornicki very much, and in fact I fully agree with him, this will make my speech much shorter. However, I would like to address a number of points in detail to some of them. Since we are talking about the situation on the wood market in Poland, please bear in mind that the State Forests are a monopoly on the market of this raw material. These are State Forests in over 80% supply raw material to the woodworking industry and they shape the price market through their own policies. The fact that at the moment, as the Minister said, 2 million m3 are lying and really changed the qualifications of wood, which was fully suitable for processing, including sawmills, and today the State Forests have a problem with this, is a typical example of mismanagement in the State Forests, which I mentioned in the first part, justifying the application to reject this law in its entirety. Bad management, unnecessary cutbacks are causing this kind of damage. A child, even a child, knows that a tree has been growing for more than ten years. Depending on the species it is 50 years, 60 years, sometimes even longer. So to justify that plans to organize the forest are made once every 10 years and then we'll cut or not, there's really no point. I mean. It means that... it's just an attempt to manipulate the High House, because maybe someone won't know. I remind you, the child knows that the tree grows longer. And each of us has seen a 10-year-old tree and knows that it is not suitable for cutting and processing. The Minister said that 2 million m3 entered Poland from abroad and that the wood industry is shopping there. If he's shopping there, and there's a market here, that means it's cheaper. Especially since we still need to transport this raw material. The cost of transport is an important price-setting factor in the wood processing section. And if the wood industry could buy cheaper raw materials from us, it would buy this raw material in Poland instead of importing it from abroad. The fact that the Forests have high costs of their own... I have already said: more than a thousand people, overemployment, and actually more employment. And the fact that you're now forcing people in the State Forests who have obtained pension rights to retire doesn't prove anything good, because you're sending away great managers, people who know their jobs, are qualified, and you're replacing them with pennies who don't have a clue about things. I am speaking with writers, and I could list here a very long list of people recently employed in the State Forests, but I will mention only three very distinctive examples of people who have either been employed or have received promotions. And I will start with the leading Polish hater, councilman in Szczecin, for a long time assistant Zbigniew Ziebra, who became famous, among others. I could quote thousands of such entries because he is fertile, but only 2 will quote: "Donald Tusk should go before the Court of State, military court and against the wall!" You must be proud, Mr. Director General, of hiring this employee, huh? Great. One more quote from him: "Ks. Miedlar is a model for today's youth! May there be more priests like you! Even the Catholic Church got rid of that priest. And this man who wrote this today has a high-paying function in the State Forests. Why? Because he's Ziobra's man. Another example is the development centre in Bedon. There he found employment of the head of regional structures of Solidarna Polska in Łódź. Several tens of thousands of zloty wages. What does he do? Nobody really knows, because he doesn't have any qualifications to perform this function. A great example is the man who became famous for his intervention as a forest guard in the Białowieża Forest. This man, using force against naturalists who protected the forest from unnecessary, unnecessary clipping, was promoted, now working as Regional Director of State Forests in Szczecin. I'm going to quote it, too, because that's what he wrote on his Twitter, Facebook, social media to protesting environmentalists: "I already have a special wall to put up with a big headline: a cossack on the Internet... "I'm sorry, I'm not going to quote it all in the world. I'll meet him, I'll meet him. These are the staff employed today in the State Forests. It's really something to be proud of. Foresters who take care of the Polish nature for decades, foresters made of blood and bones, and not the soothsayers who are now employed there, are ashamed of all those employed today in the State Forests. The financial results show that the State Forests for the first time in their 30-year history, for the first time since the breakthrough, when the State Forests Act was drawn up, can obtain a negative financial result. Is that something to be proud of? No, that's the reason to say: you can't manage as serious a structure as the State Forests, such an important and great organization that manages 30% of the country's territory. The Minister has escaped the question asked by Senator Szejnfeld, who asked about renewable energy sources. Minister, let me help you. Vice Prime Minister Emilewicz said that Poland will reach 13% in the original balance sheet at the end of this year. energy from RES, and I will tell the senators that according to the climate and energy package, the treaty signed by Mr Lech Kaczyński, we are going to reach 15% by the end of this year. . So we know very well today that the PiS government will not achieve these indicators. A few years ago, one of the senators spoke about it. He murdered the development of renewable energy in the windmill section, so today he's probably trying to combine water with fire, which is to save the financial situation of the State Forests and achieve RES indicators. Only this attempt to achieve this is a test that brings forests, as an area, to degradation and to decline. State Forests on their sites write something like this: the function of forests as such is primarily a natural function of 100% compatibility; social 100% compliance. There is no mention of economic functions, but I will add a few important ones, which show that we should take special care not to obtain, as foresters say, that we should not cut forests in Poland. It is about their role in climate change, for example. State Forests... Sorry, forests as such absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. If today, in Europe, there is a debate on climate neutrality in the European Union, the ability to absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere in the country will be one of the elements considered with the amount of emissions that we will be able to put into the atmosphere. Finally, forests are of enormous importance in this part on flood protection and drought protection. I don't want to prolong it here, so I won't go into too much detail. Minister, you say the average salary is PLN 6,000. To be honest, I didn't hear any reduction in salary. I have heard about the trade union protests demanding that the Director General of the State Forests be dismissed and I know that the Director has agreed to the trade union increases as part of the compromise. I, of course, cannot receive this information from you, I will wait politely for another year's statistical yearbook and information from the Central Statistical Office. I'm sure you're grossly missing the truth. There were no reductions. There are raises, so it's more like 8,000 zlotys up, not less. PLN 8,000 gross This is data at the end of 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way to improve this bill. She's completely harmful. Putting a new player on the market will cause once again that this player will have access to the raw material and will necessarily increase the price of the raw material that today is bought by the wood industry. This industry will only have bigger problems. There are several hundred thousand people working there, but the government isn't worried about these people, it's concerned about the financial condition of the State Forests. Please do not hire pisiewicz, hire specialists and take care of the Polish wood industry, which is one of the best and largest in Europe. Please take care of the Polish nature, because this is your constitutional task. You focus only on the need and care for your own, and this is unfortunately a disaster, and this is something that has brought down the Forests today. To the end... I wonder how many millions of cubic meters the printer's barker destroyed. Whether it's 2 million m3 or not. I don't think so. I do not know this data, so I do not want to operate with numbers here., but I have such a feeling that today in the woods there is another barker, a PiS barker, and he has definitely destroyed more forests and wood in Poland, much more damage to Polish nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u109	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Brejza will speak. Mr. Senator, do we hear you? We can't hear you. Mr. Senator, could you turn on the camera, please? Maybe a minute's technical break, try to get in touch with the senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dear Senators, Senator Brejza has logged out, he will not speak. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Gabriel Morawska-Staneck and Senator Krzysztof Mróz. The discussion is closed. [[The Senators of Dowhan, Godyla and Breeza have also submitted...]] Senator Dowhan, Senator Godyla and Senator Brejza have also submitted their speeches to the minutes. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Message.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u110	The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics between 1939 and 1956 will be held in room 182 at 16:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u111	Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 02 to 17 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u112	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 167 and the Commission's reports In printed matter No 167 A and No 167 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 30 July this year. At the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment, the Law on amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws The system of operation so far provided for a complicated procedure for the cooperation of 3 entities of the Low-carbon Transport Fund, i.e. the Ministry of Climate, the Managing Director of the Low-carbon Transport Fund of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Bank of the National Economy implementing the bank service of the Fund and a complicated procedure for spending funds aimed at developing the alternative fuel sector, including electromobility. In order to simplify, re-bureaucratise and accelerate public funding for the development of low-carbon transport, the proposed law removes the Low-carbon Transport Fund in its current form, and in its place creates a new multi-annual commitment of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The funds collected so far in the FNT account will be transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The construction ensures that the fund's funding for low-carbon transport development is spent more efficiently. According to the proposed law, it is assumed that the implementation of the current FNT objectives should be included in the statutory objectives of NFOŚiGW as an institution to finance environmental protection and water management with the participation of the Minister responsible for Climate Rights, who has the current supervision of the activities of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The selection of applications for funding from NFOŚiGW will be carried out on the basis of priority programmes approved by the Supervisory Board of the Environmental and Water Management Fund, the content of which is subject to an opinion by the Climate Minister. In view of the cross-cutting nature of the provision concerning the functioning of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and in connection with the conversion of the Low-carbon Transport Fund, it is also necessary to amend the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on Individual Income Tax. Due to delays resulting, among others. from the spread of SARS-CoV-2 and to support the implementation of new generation sources, including in particular low-carbon sources, it is proposed to amend the Power Market Act to postpone the start of the power charge of 1 October 2020 to 1 January 2021. This change will not increase costs for electricity consumers. The costs of the capacity market are already known. This is due to closed capacity auctions already carried out in 2017. The statutory change will only result in a time shift, i.e. narrowing it down to 12 months 2021 Amendment to Article The 92th Power Market Act also requires transitional provisions. According to Art. 74. 4 of the Power Market Act, the President of the URE shall publish by 30 September each year the rate of the power charge for the following year. Following the transfer of the power charge to 1 January 2021, it is necessary to adjust the deadline within which the President of the Energy Regulatory Office should calculate and publish fixed charges. In this case, it was indicated on 30 November 2020. This is the deadline for the President of the URE to publish this information. Since the collection deadline was postponed by 3 months, the deadline for calculation and publication of fees by the President of the URE should also have been extended. In this case, it was extended for two months. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, as part of the priority programme, finances the exchange of old and inefficient heat sources for solid fuel for modern heat sources that meet the highest standards, and also finances the necessary thermomodernization works of buildings. The proposed legislation assumes that the authorities, mayors and city presidents must issue certificates to natural persons who intend to apply for funding. The applicant shall be entitled to an increased level of funding if, when applying for funding, he/she holds a certificate confirming the income calculated by the entity responsible for the activities in question. The proposed rules are particularly important for the poorest. The proposed amendment complements the extension of the scope of this Article. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10f of the Law on Environmental Protection and, as a consequence, extending the scope of the instrument for making available funds from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management for voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. The possibility of applying these mechanisms is important for cooperation between NFOŚiGW and WFOŚiGW, as well as for cooperation with local government units, in particular municipalities. In addition, since the priority programme provides for the use of certificates for low-income persons, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Tax Tax Act to ensure that the issue of certificates referred to in environmental law is free of charge. The Legal Office of the Senate of the Republic of Poland prepared 13 detailed comments. Some of them were accepted by the High Commission, some were rejected, but as a result of the vote on the whole of the Act, the Environment Commission recommends the adoption of the Act together with the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u114	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a position on the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws. The committee was sitting on it the day... the day before yesterday. This is a government... parliamentary project. The government has tabled 12 amendments and all these amendments have been accepted unanimously by the committee. I'm not gonna say it again, because my fellow chairman is talking here... I mean, he's told the whole story. But this is a very important project primarily for the development of motorization. And I just regret that the motorization programs haven't stopped. It's all about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u116	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? There isn't. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I'm asking you, Minister Piotr Grandpa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u117	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a brief draft of the Parliamentary amendment of the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. This is Senate printing number 167. The Low-carbon Transport Fund was established in 2018 as a State-owned special-purpose fund, but the operating system provides for a complex cooperation procedure between 3 actors: the manager of the fund, i.e. the climate minister, the manager of the NFOŚ fund and the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, who carries out banking services for this fund and a complicated procedure for spending funds to develop the alternative fuel sector, including electromobility. Therefore, in order to simplify, re-bureaucratise and accelerate public funding for the development of low-carbon transport, the proposed bill transforms the Low-carbon Transport Fund, creating new multi-annual commitments of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The financial resources of the TNF fund collected at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will therefore be transferred to the NFOŚ account and will be allocated in full to activities supporting the development of low-carbon transport. According to the draft law, it is assumed that the implementation of the objectives of the Low-carbon Transport Fund should be included in the statutory objectives of NFOŚ, as an institution whose tasks include financing environmental protection and water management, with the participation of the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs, holding the current supervision of NFOŚ's activities. The selection of applications for funding from NFOŚ will be carried out on the basis of the priority programmes approved by the NFOŚ Supervisory Board, the content of which is subject to an opinion by the Climate Minister. In view of the cross-cutting nature of the provisions on the functioning of NFOŚ, it is also necessary to amend the Environmental Law, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Individual Income Tax Act. In the course of parliamentary work, following the amendments tabled by the Members, the draft was extended to include amendments to the following laws. The first is the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Capacity Market. In view of the delays resulting from the spread of COVID and in order to support the implementation of new generation sources, including in particular low-carbon sources, it is proposed to amend the Power Market Act to postpone the collection of the Capacity Charge of 1 October 2020 to 1 January 2021. This change will not increase costs for electricity consumers. The cost of the energy market in 2020 is already known and results from closed capacity auctions carried out in 2017. The amendment of the bill only causes a time shift and narrows it down to 12 months. Amendment to Article The 99th Capacity Market Act also requires transitional provisions. According to Art. 74. 4 of the Power Market Act, the President of the URE shall publish by 30 September each year the rate of the power charge for the following year. Following the transfer of the power charge to 1 January 2021, it is necessary to adjust the deadline for the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to calculate and publish these rates. In this case, the deadline for the President of the URE to publish this information was 30 November 2020. The collection deadline was postponed by 3 months and the deadline for calculation and publication by the President of the URE was extended by 2 months. Another amendment is the amendment to the Environmental Law on the implementation of the Clean Air programme. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, as part of the priority programme "Clean air" finances the exchange of old and inefficient heat sources for solid fuel, for modern heat sources meeting the highest standards, and also finances the necessary thermomodernization works of buildings. The proposed legislation assumes that the authorities, mayors and city presidents must issue certificates to natural persons who intend to apply for funding. The applicant entitled to an increased level of co-financing, when applying for funding, shall hold a certificate confirming the income calculated by the entity responsible for the activities in question. The proposed rules are particularly important to support the poorest. The proposed amendment complements the extension of the scope of this Article. 411 of the Act on Environmental Protection and consequently extending the scope of the NFOŚ facility to WFOŚ, i.e. to voivodship funds. The possibility of applying the mechanisms presented is important for cooperation between NFOŚ and WFOŚ, as well as for the cooperation of these funds with local government units, in particular municipalities. In addition, since the Clean Air Scheme provides for the use of certificates for low-income persons, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Tax Tax Act to ensure that certificates issued are free of charge. Another amendment, which was included in the contested law, concerns the Energy Law. This amendment aims to improve the management and operation of gas infrastructure by clarifying the operator designation rules for several elements of this infrastructure, e.g. transmission network and regasification terminal. The proposed amendment is intended to clarify where it is possible to designate such an operator. All proposed legislation is in line with European Union law. The project was the subject of work by two Senate committees, as we heard just a moment ago. On 30 July this year. The draft was adopted, together with some of the amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office, by the Committee on the Environment, and on 10 August by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, as in the case of the Environment Committee, together with some of the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. I therefore request the High House to adopt a law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u118	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no volunteers. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Piotr Dziadzio: Okay. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] Thank you. Oh, you're... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Piotr Dziadzio: Is it?]] I'm sorry, sir. I can't see you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u119	Yeah, I'm a mickey, so I can't be seen. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, why aren't we doing well so far... I'm not talking about technical matters anymore. I'm talking about building a car. But why aren't we doing a subsidy program, car subsidies, whether it's for van drivers or private cars or taxi drivers? Don't you think it's not about who owns the money and how many of these directors? Although it's important, too. The problem is, you just need to change the program? How about... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Piotr Dziadzio: Yes...]] ...no charging station? Well, something's wrong here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u120	Yes, Senator, we're working on it. Right now, we're trying to understand this problem. We are aware of this and are working very hard on new development concepts. We are taking this problem very widely, and we are taking this problem very seriously, because here the limitation... i.e. Low carbon is really very important for us, for all of us, for cities, for villages, for transport, for collective transport too. And we are still working on improving solutions in this area. Soon we'll have new solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u121	Thank you, Minister. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I would like to support Mr. Czerwinski here, that the 3 programs that were: the Green Car, the EVAN, as well as the third program, connected with the loading, the Collider... And I would like to say that as cars were advertised in Poland, it was very often quoted in advertisements that parts are produced in Poland. And I thought there was a program here, so to speak, he'd get it. Because what I'm trying to say is that the automotive industry... He just lost the most, the biggest there is just a drop in production. And we know that the automotive sector in Poland is a very important factor, the second in this industrial sector... I mean. it produces about 140 billion PLN a year and employs 225 thousand people. And here, maybe the group release will be the biggest. What I'm trying to say is that our Western neighbours managed to control all of this because... it's important to say that the sale of other cars was also stopped there, and as far as hybrid cars are concerned, although Germany is not a producer either, the increase was 480%. As far as electric cars are concerned, 170% And there you can see... And here's something... Well, we need to do an analysis. Perhaps it is a lack of dialogue with companies producing these cars. We know that in Germany, apart from the fact that the central government, Merkel's government has co-financed it, the Lands have also co-financed it. Now there's even more funding. It pays off. It is better to help production than to help the unemployed later. Yeah, and here we're facing the biggest layoffs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u123	Yes, I agree with that statement. However, the Ministry of Climate is currently working very hard on solutions that will improve or even allow some production to be started in our country, so that this production is also based on Polish suppliers, which can definitely change the image and market of car transport, electric transport, hybrid transport or even hydrogen transport. We are very close at the moment to identifying the location of such an undertaking, but we need a little more time for that. We're thinking about it. The Ministry of Climate takes into account transport, the possibility of using potential Polish solutions, the potential development of the Polish market. We want some of the subsuppliers who are in trouble in the car market today to find their place in the supply chain very quickly for modern cars, modern vehicles, construction of modern low-carbon infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u124	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Piotr Dziadzio: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you and your colleagues! That's what I said at the committee meeting, and I'm gonna do it here. I thank you immediately for the reply you gave to the members of the committee, Minister. I was asking about the Low-Emission Transport Fund. In 2018, as this fund was created, I told you Which I reminded you of at the committee meeting. That, on the basis of the proposed rules, there is no chance that this fund could operate. I didn't want to be a prophet, I was hoping I'd make a mistake, but unfortunately it all came true. The fund raised PLN 581 million. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, was spent on low-carbon transport projects? Zero. No gold. It is 2020, there is huge money, and no support has been achieved. This is a typical example of writing law on your knee, without consulting, without talking, without experts, with the conviction that we know better. Of course, you have the right to do that, and you exercise that right, but if you want to do things right, it's really worth talking to experts. Of course, money was spent on this fund, but not on projects related to low-carbon transport. 743 thousand zlotys were spent on the maintenance of the fund itself. I, to be honest, don't really know what the cost is. Nothing's done, nothing's happening, and they say there's a cost. If the money's in the bank account, they're working, which means the money should also make a profit. You should say here that there are income from the deposit. If you can't manage money like this, it's actually a bigger problem. I'll say politely: in any household, if anybody has any cash, they can make a deposit, invest in something, make it profit from that cash. I also remember when this fund was created important people in Poland, then and today Prime Minister Morawiecki and then Minister Tchórzewski spoke about a million cars. A million cars are gone. The fund, or, in fact, the taxpayers, because we're all the ones who pay for it as electricity users... We're in the middle of correcting the wrong written law today. To be fair, I will, of course, support this solution, because I have much more confidence in the national fund... Even if things are bad there today, this institution is still efficient in implementing various types of projects. Many years, 30 years of experience translates into a fairly smooth functioning of this institution. And even the worst management will not destroy the achievements of officials who have worked there for many, many years. The program is also improved... I'm just saying it so much more informatively because I don't want to be completely angry, but some of the data is worth remembering. The Clean Air programme is improved. I don't know if you remember how this program was made. We all heard peany at the time, they said that the government would spend PLN 103 or 106 billion on this program in the next 10 years. 10 years and 103 or 106 billion PLN. I don't remember, so I might be wrong here, I don't know which amount is more appropriate. Let's make it 103 billion zlotys. But what does that mean? That's at least 10 billion a year. Do you know how much we've spent on support over the last few years, real support in households? You don't know? A little over 2 billion zlotys. This program will not be realized, it is such a lelum flulum They come to each other, they tell each other, and they think they have naives in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u126	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make an amendment in view of the fact that at committee meetings, among others. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, proposals were made by the Polish Districts Association. They were quite broad, and I will limit myself to just one proposal for an amendment, which I would like to support. It shall apply to Article. 11a. I would like the High Senate to vote as follows. Article 11a, point (a) 1. For the period from 31 December 2025, the funds of the Fund referred to in Article. 80d of the amended law is also intended to compensate the counties for income lost as a result of the entry into force of this Act. I'll try to document it briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, local government units, which are counties, have no income. The municipalities are still doing just fine, because they can manage their wealth wisely, and they're doing just fine there. The farms to which the income will be taken will have nothing to compensate for it. It's not that the money that may have been made in the traffic departments should be stopped somehow, but it's that the costs won't fall on purpose, they'll be the same. There will be no layoffs in the traffic departments. These costs will continue to be borne. The counties with some money will have to cover the losses that will be associated with the citizen's gain. It is very good that the citizen will not pay, very well, but we must also remember the districts. Either these counties have to be eliminated or they have to be provided with sources of funding. If these sources of funding are taken away from them, it is necessary to indicate from which other sources these losses are to be covered. This amendment aims to ensure that the competent minister, using, for example, this fund, which Senator Gawłowski has just spoken about... So that eventually from this fund, of course, after calculating these operating costs for the traffic departments, the powiats have the opportunity to compensate for these losses. Otherwise, we're going to have a local government unit, which is a county that won't be able to hold on because they're being taken away by income or revenue... Once again, it's not about profits, but it's where the costs are borne. It's not like we're gonna take out the traffic departments, they're gonna keep going, these people are gonna keep working there. There's not going to be any less red tape. The citizen will spend less money, and good. But the revenue lost by the county in some way must be compensated if the traffic departments are to continue to function. So that I make such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u128	Mr. Senator, do you make an amendment to this bill or to the Road Traffic Act, which is in the next item? Can you answer me? [[To the Road Traffic Act.]] [[Voice from the room: Yeah.]] Come on, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, we're out of the O.R. I thought we were at the next point.]] Mr. Senator, there is a point at the moment: the Law on amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and amending other laws. Isn't this where you report the amendment? [[This haste...]] Okay, okay, but just... Well, you know... [[I won't repeat myself again. I'll make an amendment, Mr. Marshal.]] It's a good thing I was told about it. Well, otherwise I would have sent the bill back with your amendment to the committee. [[Okay, I'll make an amendment like that at the traffic point without comment. I'm so sorry for the fuss.]] That's the next point. The senators didn't report... Oh, I'm sorry. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u129	We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 168 and the Commission's reports In prints No 168 A and No 168 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 24 July 2020. On 24 July 2020, the Senate Marshal sent this law to the committee. In particular, the Act responds to social expectations related to the reduction of costs and administrative burdens for vehicle owners. The development of new solutions was also inspired by parliamentary interpellations and conclusions from inter-ministerial cooperation, especially on the line from the Ministry of Infrastructure The Ministry of Digitization. The latter was the applicant for these amendments, which could be considered as elements of the deregulation package. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 30 July 2020, the committee requests the High Senate to adopt this draft resolution. In the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the committee proposed 5 amendments, 3 of which were proposed by the Legislative Office of the Senate and then tabled by the chairman of the committee of Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Amendment 4th and fifth, together with the extension proposed by the Polish Senate legislature, were tabled by Senator Marek Komorowski. All the amendments were accepted by the government. The committee was working in a very good atmosphere. We have worked substantively and very efficiently, which is undoubtedly due to the President, but also to the well-managed legislative process. The draft law was submitted by the government and fulfilled all the criteria of correct legislation. At this point, I encourage those of you senators... Well, I myself am a senator of the first term, I have a small internship, so I encourage those of you who have a small parliamentary internship to examine, on the example of this law, what are the requirements for the laws put forward to the High House. So far, most of the Senate's legal acts have been drafted on the initiative of the parliament. The majority of the Senate permanently commented in this House on inter alia. no public consultation. There are no such reservations to this law. After a comprehensive, 42 pages of the explanatory memorandum of the Act, an assessment of the effects of the regulation was presented together with an annex to that assessment. A comprehensive report was also presented on the consultation and opinion, together with tables and comments of the notifying bodies and the position of the Ministry. 41 comments of different importance were noted. There were 4 stages of consultation, including 2 stages of agreement. Drafts of 3 regulations, along with annexes, model vehicle registration application and temporary withdrawal of the vehicle, model registration decision and justification, as well as re-assessment of the effects of the regulation are annexed to the Act. In total, the document has 233 pages, but only 41 pages are covered by the Act itself. However, even for the best prepared document you can have comments or reservations. We have tabled amendments to the Act so that it can achieve even better the objectives of the amendments. During the discussion at the committee meeting, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz The senator's observation was that today the plates are actually used for about four years. If these plates are used longer, you have to be aware that the 5-, 6- or 7-year-old board is of such quality that it is unreadable by the cameras, and we would like to feel safe on the road. And it was the senator's question, whether the state, or the government side, you take this into account and whether or not. It shouldn't be a certain period of time, say, five-year-old, for the use of plates. Government representatives did not have such reservations. I think that the Minister, the road operator or the Ministry of Infrastructure will speak on this issue. It was also the senator's question about the control sticker, which has so far played an important role, whether it is reasonable to give up this sticker. And in this regard, the government has also stated that it does not see any objections. However, the director of the City Council of Krakow pointed out the loss of income of individual counties and cities on the rights of the county without reducing practically the duration of individual registration activities. He pointed out that it was not true that the reduction in the revenue of local government units would be offset by the reduction in the time-consumingness of the vehicle registration process. The process of registration of a vehicle will only be shortened by the fact that we will not fill out the vehicle card or issue a control sticker. This law only introduces financial consequences such that the citizen will actually pay less, but we would like to This is the words of the director from Krakow, who participated in this process probably at every consultation stage, so that the citizen would spend less time in the office, i.e. he would not stand in queues, and that he could be served as soon as possible. The Director would therefore like to propose to the government and the local government committee a solution which will lead to the elimination of something such as the decision to temporarily register a vehicle, so that this decision can be applied only in justified cases. The Minister has committed that this problem will be examined with the Ministry of Infrastructure and this information will be communicated. Departure from the combination of issuing a registration or a temporary permit with the issuing of a decision on the temporary or permanent registration of a vehicle is something that will significantly improve the efficiency of the registration authority. Today, the Act gives the possibility of permanent registration only and only if the following conditions are met: the customer does not mention the registration plate and the vehicle is registered in the country. Then we can move away from the temporary registration. Whether or not a customer exchanges a license plate doesn't change anything, because the bill still assumes that the customer will have to dismantle the license plate and bring it back to the office for legalization. We believe that the originally legalised registration plate could remain until the road traffic control authorities or the diagnostic station during the periodic technical examination do not find it necessary to replace it. And you continue to note the director that this should be changed, the possibility of issuing only and only permanent registrations for all cars registered in the country should be extended. This would certainly improve the process of registration of vehicles, and then some records in the registration certificate should also be changed. The second point raised at the committee meeting is the issue of electronic registration. Our citizens, our customers, who come to the offices, to the communication departments, attach to the application for registration of a vehicle notified by electronic means and bearing a qualified electronic signature or a trusted profile... These documents, it turns out, do not have the status certified for compliance with the original. In order to complete the registration process in the case of an electronic application, the customer still needs to come with a paper version and present it to the office. Here, too, Minister Wanda Buk has declared an examination of these solutions. I hope that they will be handed over today. On the other hand, Mr Kubalski from the Polish Districts Association raised the problem of abolishing the vehicle card. This was accepted at the stage of the agreement of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government, but in its view this solution should be combined with the general obligation for the end-user to register the vehicle. At this point, there is no such obligation, it is sufficient that the buyer of the vehicle has notified it. This fulfils the obligations of the law. Information that he acquired it was to be recorded in the vehicle's card. If we give it up, there's a problem with trading. The issue of license plates has also been raised. According to the Polish County Association, the optimal version would be such as to replace the registration plate, but in the minimum version it may be necessary to replace the plates at the disposal of the vehicle. He pointed out that we do not save time for registration, but only fund the owner 100 PLN, which in the case of car price is a minimum amount. I've been discussing this with different people. Some say that today for young people who get a driver's license and buy a car for 5,000 zlotys, each 100 zloty is quite significant. So that people approach this money in a variety of ways, while you can't miss the fact that the counties, and especially the cities on the rights of the county, will lose significantly on it, because for example. In the City Hall of Krakow, it is the money of 4 million PLN, and in the City Office of Poznań it is probably 7 and 8 million PLN. Director Marek Wójcik from the Association of Polish Cities has proposed as if the issue was dealt with by local governments by verifying the provisions in the regulations implementing the law and amending the tariff operator. The Ministry of Infrastructure was to comment on this. I hope that these lost income will somehow, although in part, be compensated for by the counties and cities on the rights of the county. In the end, this is what I said at the very beginning, the 5 amendments that you have printed in report 168 A have been voted unanimously. Any other amendments may be tabled in the course of today's discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Government state! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Błucherz so detailed his report on the committee meeting that I hardly have anything left to add, because the Committee on Infrastructure has adopted amendments identical to those tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. I can only share my feelings about these, say, the rules that are presented in the amendments introduced by the law on road traffic. Me, for example. I believe that the two points are the most important. One is that we don't have to have a driver's license on us because we were used to it without it, getting in the car, we can't move. The second is giving up the vehicle card, where we actually have the whole, say, the sick history of our car, whether we're selling or repairing... etc. In turn, all other regulations are debatable, but they will certainly make it easier for car buyers to move around in this whole administrative matter. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure there were many people, and there was also a representative of the Association of Polish Cities. I don't know if the same person was at the council committee meeting... Yes? [[Voice from the hall: From the Polish County Association.]] I don't know if it was the same person. [[Voice from the room: Same.]] Same one. Oh, I'm sure that's what he was talking about at the council committee meeting. However, it provided some amounts that would lose the county in the event of withdrawal from the fees. He estimated them at PLN 590.800 thousand per county. Actually, the discussion doesn't... And, one more thing, that was the issue of regulating the situation of diagnostics in road traffic law. Diagnostics, which perform technical tests of the car and which allegedly do not have a legal attachment to this. But I don't know anything about it. If the government side could answer your question, I'd appreciate it. The Committee on Infrastructure has also adopted 5 amendments, the same as the committee of the local government, with 3 amendments being proposals from the Legislative Office, which teach the law. And now, as we have learned from Senator Tyszkiewicz's early speech, there will be one more amendment. Both committees will have to address this amendment in some way. Conclusion: The Committee on Infrastructure has accepted all the amendments and proposes that the High House adopt a resolution on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Excuse me, senators of the rapporteurs. But that's it. Now he's going to be a government representative. The project was brought in by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have two government representatives here. I see Minister Andrzej Bittel and Minister Wanda Buk. Which one of you will introduce... Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The minister decided that I should do it first, so I gave up. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: So I understand that both of you will present?]] The Minister will make a decision. I'm sure he's the kind of person who can decide. The Act on the amendment of the law on road traffic and certain other laws was prepared jointly by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Digitization It is worth highlighting the important role of the Ministry of Digitalization in preparing these rules. And it's so-called. a deregulation package introducing a number of facilitations for vehicle owners and vehicle managers and simplifications in existing procedures in this area. By drawing up a bill... As the rapporteur, Senator Bladder, rightly pointed out, this law was also a response to social expectations in terms of reducing costs, burdens for motor vehicle owners. Social proposals in this area have been taken into account. There's been a wide consultation. All those elements you mentioned to the senator. I confirm that they have been implemented. It is also worth mentioning that several resorts participated actively in the inter-ministerial phase in cooperation or communication between the resorts, and that the benefits of the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 project led by the Ministry of Digitalization were taken into account in this project in 2017. Allow me not to bring in detail all the benefits that come from this act of law, because I would have to speak here for a very long time. Important, important are those issues which are related to the reduction of the number of documents, the reduction of the burden on residents who carry out registration activities. There are also simplifications that concern the procedure itself. This will certainly be welcomed by those who will benefit from these procedures, but also by those who do them on a daily basis. I would like to say that the issues raised by the city of Krakow in the person of the director of the office were particularly important in relation to the questions raised in the reports and which were expressed at the meetings of the 2 committees. They were described and submitted to the hands of President Frankiewicz of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I would like to tell you that in my opinion, the director of the city of Krakow perfectly justified the need to abandon the vehicle card, from the sticker, saying that this is an act that does not actually matter much in the registration process and which causes a burden on the residents. So this is the exact opposite of looking at this issue. With regard to the temporary registration of the vehicle, it must be said that... sorry, maybe I'll start with the issue of re-certification of the license plate. Well, it's worth saying it's the rule of this law. This type of activity is carried out, this obligation is carried out, and it will be done, unless during the next stage. After all, the law is the first or the next step in the deregulation of this sphere. It will turn out that there will be no need to carry out such activities. Well, I'll allow myself not to be read. The same is true of the issue related to the temporary registration of the vehicle. We will also be watching this, because we believe that changes need to be made in stages. Indeed, there was also a discussion on financial issues, which are also related to this law. I think that they have been quite widely described on page 31 of the justifications which have been annexed to the Act. Of course, the construction of the financing of the local government is a very important issue, but the issue of abolishing the burden, especially in view of such justification, in view of the assessment of this law, which came from the city of Krakow... Well, I think that's a sufficient justification. If I haven't exhausted the subject, I'm asking your marshal to cast the floor to the Minister. In any case, we are ready to answer the questions together.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u135	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] [[Voice from the hall: Tyszkiewicz.]] Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz? [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: He's already spoken.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Yeah, yeah, but I have a question.]] ...that's why I'm surprised. [[But I have a question.]] Oh, question. Good. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u136	The amendment was made, so I got ahead of the line a little bit, but the subject is current... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I would very much ask you to approach the microphone.]] Okay, I'm getting closer. I'd like to ask you a question related to the removal of the vehicle card. The vehicle card was supposed to serve all of us. The idea was that all vehicle-related events should be recorded there. As we know from experience, she was not fully fulfilling her function. I have a question: will the CEPiK include all information related to the change of the owner of the vehicle and the whole history of the vehicle? This question relates in particular to information related to events relating to a particular vehicle. Well, it's the insurance company. My point is that this form, which has been so far, did not actually fulfil its function, because there was only a change of owner, while the new owner of the vehicle would rather be interested in the fact that we were all concerned with whether the vehicle was damaged and whether it was seriously damaged. Will such information be included in the CEPiK? Because I'm shutting down the vehicle's book. Okay, we're okay with that. But will the CEPiK be sufficiently expanded that the entire history of the vehicle will be included in the CEPiK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u137	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: If the Marshal permits, then the Minister...]] Minister Wanda Buk. You're welcome. Minister, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u138	Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please go to the microphone.]] Dear Senator, Dear High Izbo! Yes, I confirm that today all the information you've been asking the senator about is in the Central Vehicle Registry, and you can always check it out. Let us also remember that as a result of the changes, the printing from the CEPiK has the effect of an official document, so that there will be no doubt. And if you don't mind, because the questions have been raised, well, maybe not simply formulated... In any event, the thread concerning the county's revenue from the issue of the sticker and the vehicle card was certainly raised. The Minister has already responded in part, but I would like to point out that last year the possibility for the county to impose penalties by the department of communication in a situation where the seller or buyer... Because both parties to the vehicle sales agreement are required to report the disposal and acquisition of the vehicle, and one, and the other. And if they fail to comply with that obligation, then the Department of Communications has the possibility of imposing an administrative penalty. And these are e.g. income which is directly the income of the county. You see, these are... Even though there was another source here, no one was compensating for it, nor was he comparing it with any other income so that, let's say, the balance sheet would be zero. So that as of January 1, this year, some funds could accumulate. I'm going to say here, so for the sake of justice, that in connection with the COVID, in the COVID Act, this time as if it had been removed and it wouldn't be since January 1st, only 180 days later, six months later. However, the removal of the obligation to have a sticker and issue a vehicle card does not happen overnight. In accordance with the transitional provisions, for a further 24 months, i.e. For two years, the counties will have this income. So they're already building up some sources that they didn't have before, knowing that they wouldn't have that source. It's not like a zero-one balance sheet. I encourage local government units to do so. We're open. To continue to look throughout the administrative process, to which the departments of communication, simplifications, which part of the work will take away from them. And let's not say that these changes we're making don't take part in this job. After all, you had to update the vehicle card, you had to issue it, you had to prepare the control sticker. The people in the communications departments had to do the right thing, and now they're not gonna do the right thing. It's so ugly to say that human resources... Well, some possibility of optimizing work in counties will also appear. And that, too, I would say, is our position on the previous point proposed by your secretary, but to this point... [[Senator's voice.]] ...as proposed by the senator of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u140	The Minister's office. I'd do it in the form of a statement, because I've just been prepared for the Minister of Infrastructure, but if you've caused a problem... It's complicated. Well, according to the article. 140mb is applicable to fines for infringement of the registration obligation or notification of the acquisition and disposal of the vehicle Whoever owns... etc., etc., is punished in the amount of PLN 200 to PLN 1 thousand. The president of the city of X, but it's not just about the city of X, there's more like that, I have more examples. It issued an administrative decision to charge a fine for non-compliance with Article. 78 (1) (a) (ii) Point 2 1 law on road traffic. The party appealed against the decision of the President of City X to the self-government college. The College repealed the decision, terminated the proceedings before the body of first instance. In the explanatory memorandum, the SKO pointed out that since the party was no longer the owner of the vehicle after the 30-day deadline for notification of the acquisition or disposal of the vehicle, it is not possible to refer to the fulfilment of the entity's condition laid down in the provision. For this reason, the decision of the President of the City of X had to be eliminated from legal trading. And the question arises: in what situation should the registrant carry out the provisions of the Article. 140? It's like an à about this story. I don't think we should consider it today. I'll give it to you in a statement. Because this is, I suspect, an important problem for many, many communications departments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u141	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond. Will there be an answer? Are you expecting an answer, Senator? [[I think the statement...]] Statement. So you're not expecting any comment, are you? [[Not now, because I think it's pretty...]] So now Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u142	I'm just very brief on the license plate. If there's such a temporary element of the validity of such an array... Is it already introduced, or is it supposed to be introduced? That after five years we're gonna... what, replace the license plate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u143	No, absolutely not. [[It's just...]] I'm paying attention to two provisions in the bill... [[Yes?]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 5, amending Article. 60, after the mouth. 1. the following paragraph shall be added: 1a as follows: The maintenance of registration plates and other required vehicle markings in the correct condition and their legibility is the responsibility of the vehicle's driver. So there is an obligation which materializes in the procedure in point 9 of the amending Article. 73. It's got mouths on it. 1a, which reads: "When applying for registration of a vehicle, it may request that the existing registration number, including the registration plate (s), be maintained if the vehicle has already been registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland and has a registration plate (s) in accordance with the provisions issued pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 point (1) (a) a and maintained in good condition and legible. In such a case, the governor shall, when registering the vehicle, issue a decision on the registration of the vehicle and the registration document and shall legalise the existing registration plates (tables). If the registration plates (table) do not comply with the provisions issued pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 point (1) (a) and either they are not kept in good condition or they are not legible, the provision of paragraph shall apply. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So they're going to be traded. In short, there is an obligation and a place where compliance with this obligation can be checked. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] [[Excuse me. As I understand it...]] That means we're not going to enter a time frame for the license plate. [[And who will assess the proper functioning of this array? I don't know.]] During the trial where the resident comes in and says, "I've sold my car, I've got another one, and I want to stay on the board so far." But with this board, it has to go to, as it's said, the window. [[It's in a situation where we sell or give up. But when I'm a user of a car that's already flying, I drive for the ninth year, so what? Do I have a clear board, illegible? Who's judging?]] This will certainly assess the authority that has the right to stop the car on the road and determine whether everything is right in it. I'm sure the state police will be paying attention to this, as well as diagnostic testing stations and their employees. Well, but, Senator, we know that there are plenty of black plates with white numbers on the streets of Polish cities. And they're clear. And if they stop being legible, they have to be mentioned. And this is a process that... It's more like this discussion has gone on... So to speak, you're pointing the senator in the context of a certain manufacturing process and a business that connects to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That question is actually addressed to the Minister. It is the issue of the entry into force of this law. She's got a rigid deadline of three months. Well, you know, to adapt the organs to function. But there are a lot of exceptions here. I will admit that it is difficult for an average citizen to know whether these particular facilitations, which are introduced in this law, are already in force or not yet in force. Well, these exceptions take one year, two years, or stiff dates. The worst part of this is that some of the rules that make it easier, of course the right ones, will depend on the functionality that will be launched in the central register and, in turn, whether this functionality is running is communicated in a special communication. Well, most drivers aren't, I'm sorry, fans of BIP tracking individual units or individual ministries. How do you intend to partially phase-in the implementation of this law to communicate to drivers? I'm asking because we've already said that you don't need to have a registration on you. But the question is, since when. A short question: isn't this a very complicated way of implementing such a law? Well, it raises some doubts, mostly in people who aren't adapted to read legal acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u146	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u147	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as registration is concerned, we've been able to drive without it for two years now. I understand your doubts here, because this concerns the mRight Drive app, which is driving licenses. I can tell you what the state of work at the Ministry of Digitalization looks like today. We're waiting for the bill to come into force because we're ready, the application is ready. As soon as the bill comes into force, I could say that on the same day, but at the latest the next day by the Minister of Digitization will be issued. Since this message there are still 3 months to be able to fully use only and exclusively the mRight Drive app, which is located in the mCitizen app. These 3 months will be such a transition period, it is necessary to make certain connections between systems possible. They require a legal basis, so far, even though we are already waiting for a combination of these two cables, we could not integrate. Hence the need for a period of 3 months. Well, in fact, the next day you will be able to install this app. We're gonna make it available right away, but for another three months, there's gonna be an obligation... Of course we will communicate this, we hope that as widely and clearly as possible, it is our head in this to do it effectively. I think that this is the kind of facilitation that citizens will take very enthusiastically, and some convenience, which will make it relatively easy to reach a wide audience.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u149	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Minister in principle. Are there countries in the European Union that already code using chips in tables, both technical reviews, owners and insurance? Are we going to go in that direction, or are we not thinking about that direction now?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u150	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u151	Mr. Senator, I admit that I don't know if there are countries in the chips that all this information... I don't know the answer to that question, but if the senator's interested, then of course we'll do this kind of query and send it in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, technology, of course, changes every day and goes forward, and our direction, the direction chosen in the Ministry of Digitalization, is to move forward as well. So that today we have de facto the first stage of digitization of this area, but it is not the last stage. Now we're giving everything that's possible today, which we know we can do and give to the citizen, but we keep moving on. This digital transformation is not something that happens to snap your fingers and from day to day, but it is a rolling transformation. [[I'm just gonna say that my brother-in-law works in Holland and does these things, which is why we know.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u152	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: This is the solution in the Netherlands.]] Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u153	A question for the Minister, if you don't mind. Have you considered such an option that the license plate should be assigned to a particular person and not to a car? Such solutions are in different countries. This would settle the matter, which is also raised in the position of the Polish County Association, that today identification after registration number increases however security On the road. I come from Lubuskie Voivodeship. Not everyone's gonna know what an FNW registration is. In Rzeszow, the FNW signals that I'm not from Rzeszow, I'm from somewhere. That's a problem. I do not fully agree that this exchange of plates will cause that, however, someone from Rzeszow will drive in Nowa Sól, no one will know what the registration with R in front of... But my question is, have you considered this option, that the board should be assigned to the name? Because I think that would be the best solution. Was such an option even considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u154	Thank you very much. Please... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Maybe I'll answer.]] ...Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u155	This option has not been considered. That would de facto be the second PESEL number for every human being. Interesting concept, but it wasn't considered. But as you look at the development of car-related services, you can certainly see that there is a growing segment that I would call leasing or renting cars in various formulas. And we know that then these cars are registered at the location where the company's headquarters are. And slowly, in my opinion, if this system expands... Mr. Senator, for example. My father-in-law has a car in this formula, and there's no more local registration, but he's got a completely different registration. And this connection of registration to the place of residence can slowly change its formula, and that's probably also some future. That's what I'm talking about in the second part of the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u156	Thank you very much. There you go, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Voice from the room: Don't wear this mask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u157	I'm assuming for example. [[Voice from the room: I thought you didn't want to infect the microphone...]] This isn't about the mic infection, because I'm healthy. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I have the following question: are there any problems due to the fact that the plates are assigned to the car and indicate the region, area, district, city where you live? I mean, I know there have been problems like this before, but I think they've... Are they still there? Well, for example. In the 1970s and 1980s, the inhabitants of Gdynia received plates starting with the letters GAY, and they often came to me... I mean, they didn't come, they just tried to register elsewhere because they didn't want to go to the West with the board. There were also... I know similar situations... not similar, but situations that created problems. Registration plates in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because if Croat with a plate from part of Croatian Bosnia went to Serbian, it was thrown with stones, and vice versa. And there's been a change in the rules. It's assigned to names, not to regions. Are there any such behaviors? Because I was very interested in Senator Tyszkiewicz's question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: If the marshal permits...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u159	...I'm going to try to deal with this sociological problem of stereotypes arising from a particular array. It's said, "Well, this one's got a board like this, you gotta watch out for him because he can't drive." Well, there's an absolutely stereotypical approach that... everyone in their own way and reason has to face. Of course you can say that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...some sets of letters on the boards may or may not be appealing to someone. I've got my less favorite letters on the boards, too, but Okay, well... It's just a registration number at last. And, of course, one day you could say that... [[It doesn't strengthen aggression, Minister.]] It strengthens or weakens. Depends on what this number is. [[Voice from the room: More like letters.]] You could say that if you once left your car on other numbers than Prague, it was more likely that it would disappear. But it's not like that now. [[Voice from the hall: They all disappeared, so that...]] Yeah, but the ones on the other numbers more often. [[Voice from the room: We still have 10 minutes until...]] [[Voice from the room: There are two more senators.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u160	Mr. Senator... And the senator too? But first, Senator Victor Durlak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, maybe I'm the other way around... The question is, is it considered the possibility of introducing a single plate for several vehicles? I know that something like this works in other European countries, because as we know, some people have several vehicles and they drive more often and others only occasionally. And is it possible to enter one board for several vehicles? And also for motorists. Because some people have a couple of bikes and they could just screw up the plates and drive on the same license plate. Is this a possibility being considered in the ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u162	No, it's not, Senator. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u163	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan. I understand remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u164	Yeah, remotely. Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, can't one license plate be entered? In many countries... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: After all, that was the question.]] ...one board does its job. And the front is not always possible for specific cars, e.g. sporty installation of such a board. In fact, we'd have very big savings and it would have been financially different. When it comes to being identified by the cameras, we have photos that are taken from behind. So I guess that's no problem. Is that even the idea you're thinking about, or am I reaching too far because you're not even convinced?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u165	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u166	The senator was kind at the end to answer the question. No, we haven't reached that far yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u167	Senator Hibner. Not anymore. Thank you. There are no more people to sign up for. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you.]] Have a seat. I'm opening a discussion... Are you still Senator Dowhan? [[If that's possible, yes. But if the Minister's already off the stand, I don't know if I'm gonna bother him...]] But the Minister is at the microphone. And there's the minister. Please ask the question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u168	Good. I'm the one who's gonna take those plates out front. Now you're allowing these little tablets that are practically illegible. They decorate the car more than... Well, the big ones are more disfigured because cars have different shapes today than they used to be. Is it appropriate for such small plates to be mounted in front of the car? Isn't it better to give them up?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u169	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u170	Mr. Senator, you could say that this is a way out to meet the needs of those who have brought in cars with less space for the registration number, to the license plate. No, this does not mean that the front registration plate should be completely discontinued, but it can make it much easier to identify the vehicle number, e.g. in the photo from the camera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u171	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Victor Durlak made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. As proposals have been made, I must ask whether a government representative wishes to respond to the legislative proposal submitted. Is there gonna be a committee meeting? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: There will be a committee meeting, yes.]] [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: It's at a committee meeting...]] Thank you very much. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, ministers. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of protection and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 170 and the Commission's reports In prints No 170 A and 170 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, As regards the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020, it should be noted that since the Republic of Belarus gained independence, i.e. Since 25 August 1991, cooperation between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus in cross-border waters has not been legally regulated. It is therefore important to agree that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the protection and rational use of cross-border waters, signed, as I said earlier, on 7 February 2020. This agreement regulates bilateral cooperation in cross-border waters between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus. Just a brief explanation. The entry into force of this agreement will have a positive social impact, such as increasing the level of flood safety of residents, combating drought, effective protection of waters against pollution, increasing the availability of water resources for social needs. This law did not raise any objections to the Senators of the Environment Committee, it was approved by the Senate Environment Committee. In the vote, the senators unanimously supported this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u173	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to submit a report to the committee. Senator, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u174	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Pupa already described the agreement in some part, perhaps more described the historical features of the work on this agreement. Maybe I'll focus on the objectives of this agreement. It was included in order to safeguard the water catchment area of cross-border waters, improve the quality of these waters and preserve them if necessary to rebuild ecosystems. The agreement regulates bilateral cooperation in cross-border waters between Poland and the Republic of Belarus. Its provisions concern, among others, the following: the definition of basic concepts, the scope of cooperation between the parties, the rights and obligations of both parties, the rules for the use of cross-border waters, the protection of cross-border waters against pollution, environmental impact assessments, the way in which projects are financed and implemented. Either party may terminate the agreement by sending written notification to the other party no later than 6 months before the end of the year. And then this agreement loses its power at the end of the year. Of course, it will have a positive social impact by increasing flood safety for the population, countering drought or more effective protection against pollution, and thus improving the quality of water and accessibility to water resources of good quality for the population, including increasing the availability of water resources for social, food, recreational and other needs. Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously accepted the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the protection and rational use of cross-border waters and requested the High House to adopt this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I've got one call. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u176	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs Marshal, I have a question for one or the other rapporteur, because maybe these issues were raised at committee meetings. In the explanatory memorandum, we have been informed that for many years cooperation in cross-border waters between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus was limited to the reconciliation of individual joint projects or projects carried out by one of the parties. And here's the question: how many of these projects do we have shared or implemented by one of the parties in cross-border waters between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland? Were these issues addressed at committee meetings? And then there's the second question. In the explanatory memorandum, we also have information that we are seeking to regulate this in March 2000. The Republic of Poland has presented to the Belarusian side a draft international agreement with a proposal for its negotiations, these negotiations have been taking place so de facto since 2000 and only now have this compromise text been agreed. What were the issues at issue in order to negotiate this agreement earlier? Were these issues addressed at one or the other committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u177	Thank you very much. Here you go, who are your rapporteurs? [[They were...]] Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u178	As for the first question, there were individual arrangements when there was a need for certain arrangements between the Polish and Belarusian parties in some way... They were individual, you could say, accidental cases. As for the second question, this was not discussed at the committee meeting, at least I do not recall that this topic was discussed at the Environment Committee meeting. Of course, these negotiations and these arrangements with the Belarusian party are often difficult for various reasons. This year, this agreement has been signed. The need for ratification, therefore the Environment Committee has agreed to ask the High House to agree to ratify this agreement because this is important for the reasons that I have presented, but also for Senator Jazłowiecka, to bring this law into force and to be ratified by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions? Senator Bogdan... [[If you don't mind me filling in...]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u180	In fact, these work, these negotiations have intensified after 2000. At the end of 2000, the European Union adopted a directive establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy and it was a little more disciplined by the Polish side to make such an agreement possible. Unfortunately, in 2006, this agreement was interrupted and we did not really return to the talks until 2013. The most conflicting thing is that in fact all kinds of work, projects are carried out for money coming from Poland, Belarus is not interested in financing it. Today's agreement gives us a chance, a small one, but always a little more... It also offers the opportunity to obtain more funding from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u182	I'm just in supplemental mode to make sure it's in the protocol as well. It cannot be regarded as an incidental project of extremely important importance, implemented by the Polish-Belarusian website, concerning the Augustów Canal. It was a long, quite effective job. It was, among other things. about entering this channel into the UNESCO monuments list. We pulled out together, but it was a big project that lasted a long time, with good investment results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u183	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. The project was brought in by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to represent the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of Minister Paweł Jabłoński from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Anna Moscow from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping. Would any of you like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u184	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! High Izbo! The state border between Poland and Belarus has been largely determined by watercourses, but for almost 30 years, i.e. since Belarus' independence, cooperation in cross-border waters between our countries has not been regulated. This matter was basically governed by the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the main principles of cross-border cooperation in 1992, as well as by the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of environmental protection in 2009. The previous agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Soviet Union of 1964 does not apply due to the lack of succession. For this reason, for many years cooperation in cross-border waters between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus was mainly limited to agreeing individual projects. This will change with the entry into force of the agreement which is the subject of our deliberations. This agreement will provide the legal basis for cooperation in cross-border waters. In the light of the problems faced by the Republic of Poland in the field of water management, the benefits of this cooperation in cross-border waters are enormous because it facilitates sustainable development, increasing access to water resources of good quality for society and for the economy. This agreement will also improve the status of border waters, including Bug, Narwi, Twisloczy. This agreement is also part of the EU and international legal system for water management. The European Union's water policy aims to regulate cooperation between neighbouring countries in cross-border water pools. Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy requires Member States to manage water resources in the water catchment system. Neighborhood cooperation in cross-border waters is also the objective of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waters and International Lakes. This is the Helsinki Convention of 17 March 1992, to which Poland and Belarus are parties. The entry into force of the agreement will have a positive social and economic impact, which will take place inter alia. by improving flood safety, combating droughts, improving water protection against pollution and, consequently, improving water quality and improving the availability of quality water resources. The entry into force of the agreement will not have significant additional financial implications for the state budget as it will not impose any additional financial obligations on Poland. Moreover, despite the lack of legal regulation, it is a necessity to bear the costs of water management activities in cross-border waters with Belarus, and they are mainly borne by the Polish side. Legal regulation of this cooperation will increase the participation of the Belarusian party in the costs of investment and maintenance of cross-border waters. Similar agreements apply between Poland and all our other neighbours. And Germany, and the Czech Republic, and Slovakia, and Lithuania, and Ukraine, and Russia have such agreements with us. The Agreement concerns the matter governed by the Law of 20 July 2017 on Water Law, which means that the appropriate form of binding by Poland is the ratification procedure with the prior consent of the Act. Honourable Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, for all this, on behalf of the Government, I request the adoption of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of protection and rational use of cross-border waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question, perhaps simple: what are cross-border waters? Are these just border rivers, the streams on which the border is run, or are they the ones that start in one country and end in another? Whether it's just Bug or something. Black Hancock? And then there's the second line. Do we have any other, I'd say, outstanding cases? Because that's what we find out... Now we have learned about issues related to cross-border waters with Belarus. Relatively recently, but this was in that mandate, we were considering the ratification of the agreement with Denmark on the delimitation of waters, marine areas in the Baltic Sea. Do we have any more of these, so I'd like to He called unfinished matters, of course not that important, but just the ones that should be completed, as if to close on geographical issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u187	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u188	Dear Senator, Dear Marshal! Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the question of what cross-border waters are, Article. 1 the term is defined as follows: cross-border waters are any surface or sub-surface waters which cross the national border between States Parties or which are cut, as well as those which are within the water catchment area of those waters. I don't know if that's a satisfactory answer to the senator's question. In some of the cases that you have mentioned, such use of this wording may take place. As for your second question about the degree of regulation of our bilateral relations in the case of border issues, it is for the precision of this statement. I'll allow myself to answer in writing, if that's possible. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Excuse me if I may add further, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u189	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u190	As for the first question, in this definition we are talking about border waters, i.e. all rivers with tributaries. We are talking about water catchment management, that is, the whole water catchment area, all the waters in this water catchment area, both surface water and groundwater.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u191	If you don't mind... This raises a certain doubt. In the case of Bug part of the water catchment area of this river is in the territory of Ukraine. It's not about that kind of... it's about two countries that are bound by a contract, I understand?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u192	I will read this sentence again because it is described in such a way: all surface or underground waters which run the state border between States Parties or which are cut by them, as well as those which are within the water catchment area of these waters. This means that it is about water, which is within two countries of the parties, Poland and Belarus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u193	I'll fill it in. This is indeed the case for this part of Belarus. Ukraine and I have an adequate agreement. But I understand the senator's intentions, we are considering this too, and we intend to establish a trialogue, we are already in the process of establishing it, Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, because for now this cooperation is not formalized, and this will probably also end with a trilateral agreement. Especially for these three-border sections, this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u194	Thank you very much. Is the senator satisfied with the answer? [[Wonderful.]] Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome to ask a question. Mr. Senator, you volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u195	Thank you very much, Marshal. It's just now that my microphone's running. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have questions, and in fact I would like to return to the two questions I had previously asked the rapporteurs. You have already answered this second question, I meant the issues at issue and how the negotiations were going. But I would also like to return to the first question, about joint projects and projects implemented by one of the parties, mostly by the Polish side. I would like to ask how many projects were carried out by both parties and what projects and how many projects were carried out by one of the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u196	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u197	Here again, I think, for the sake of precision, that we should give the correct, exhaustive number, probably also in terms of the costs of these projects, I kindly ask you to allow such a written reply, unless the Minister can supplement something.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u198	Thank you very much. It depends, of course, what we mean by the project in this definition, because ordinary maintenance work, every year on the Bug River, is also a project. But when it comes to emergency measures, in 2018 congestion was removed on the river Bug, the cost of these measures is PLN 0.5 million and these costs were borne by the Polish party. With regard to the Augustów Canal mentioned here, important renovations concerned the lower gate of Kurzyniec airlocks, repair works of PLN 3.5 thousand, costs not too high, but important. It's RZGW Białystok, too. It is planned to continue and here, of course, the Belarusian side will participate in the costs of the Bug river cyclical work, mainly the removal of congestion. Every year it's about PLN 0.5 million. And the continuation of the repair of the airlock Kurzyniec, and in fact carrying out the proper repair of this airlock, in total it is the cost of over PLN 2 million, there is the replacement of the gate, two pairs. In addition, we still have waste water treatment projects which are, of course, indirectly linked to this agreement. This agreement will give the national environmental fund, among others. the possibility of entering with loan instruments for the Belarusian side, so that the quality of waste water treatment and water quality can be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u199	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski and Senator Alexander Swede. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one volunteered, didn't sign up. And just so we're clear, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No 171 and the Commission's reports In prints No 171 A and No 171 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has examined the Act of ratification submitted by the Government. This is the Extradition Act on the Agreement with the Argentine Republic signed in Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. She primarily concerns the introduction of extradition at the request of the prosecutor. There is a legal principle in Argentina that provides that extradition is only possible at the request of the court. That's what happened so far, and now it's going to be extended to the prosecutor's application. It is a law that has not raised any controversy. All the members of the committee voted in favour of this bill. As far as the intensity of such activities is concerned, up to now there have been up to 2 such extraditions per year. So I ask on behalf of the committee to accept this ratification act, which will allow for wider extradition cooperation between Poland and Argentina. As I said, there aren't many cases, but it's always good to be insured in case of criminal cases. This agreement provides that this will apply to cases punishable by more than two years' imprisonment. So we're not talking about small stuff. It's about cases where someone's punishment is significant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u202	I think exactly as you do, Marshal Borusewicz. May I just add that European standards are indeed taken into account here. The Parties undertake to issue, at the request of one of the parties, persons prosecuted for committing a crime or wanted for the purpose of executing a sentence of imprisonment or other measure. The basis for the issue is the commission of a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment or a means of imprisonment of at least 2 years, which has already been mentioned by the Marshal. The period of imprisonment remaining shall be at least 1 year. A criminal offence giving rise to an issue must constitute a criminal offence also in the territory of the other party, i.e. the Argentine territory. An application for an issue is to be accepted if the issue concerns several offences of which at least one does not meet the conditions of issue, but the remaining conditions are fulfilled. Well, it is also important that the issue may also be based on tax, customs, foreign exchange, international transfer of funds, import, export or transit of goods, even if the right of the requested party does not provide for the same type of tax or duty or does not regulate in the same way taxes, duties, foreign exchange, international transfer of funds, import, export or transit of goods. The Agreement also lays down 9 mandatory grounds for refusal. In Poland, it is subject to ratification by law, because the provisions of the Agreement concern freedom, rights or civil obligations as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It's an art. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No In accordance with the Art. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland will apply directly, having priority over the law. In this case, before the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure. Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously accepted the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Argentina and the Republic of Poland on extradition without comments. I'm asking the High House to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u204	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for both rapporteurs in principle because I do not know if this was the subject of a committee meeting, and I would like to know. As Senator Jazłowiecka said, art. 4 contracts lay down 9 mandatory grounds for refusal to surrender, extradition. I would like to ask: were these issues raised at the committee meeting? How have these legal grounds for refusal to extradite been so far, and will there be any difference after the entry into force of this agreement with regard to the existing legal situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u205	Thank you very much. Answer me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u206	Thank you very much. We didn't talk about it, these points and these details weren't discussed at the committee meeting. Nevertheless, I can say that after getting to know the material, I did not read that they were different. In fact, as Marshal Borusewicz said, the case concerns the fact that our Ministry of Justice covers the scope of its competence of the prosecution and courts. And, as you said, the marshal, in Argentina, only the court's conclusions were accepted, and the prosecution's conclusions were not accepted. Well, today, the D.A.'s office also needs this kind of extradition path. As far as these 9 mandatory points are concerned, they were probably no different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? [[I'd like to answer that, too.]] There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u208	There was no discussion on this in the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. In my opinion, art. 4 clearly sets out the grounds for refusal. I won't read it, but this article is clearly formulated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. There is a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Paweł Jabłoński. I also see a representative of the Ministry of Justice, Minister Sebastian Kaleta. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? There you go, Minister Sebastian Kalet.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! There was no bilateral or multilateral agreement between the Republic of Argentina and Poland, linking both countries, which would comprehensively regulate extradition issues. Argentina's legislation does not provide for the possibility of issuing persons for requests by non-jurisdictional authorities in the absence of Treaty bases. Thus, Polish prosecutors cannot effectively apply for surrenders from the territory of Argentina. This situation has resulted in the destruction of prosecution procedures for the prosecution of the defendants. It's common in very serious matters. The signed agreement, specifying the principle of mutual surrender of persons, creates the basis for enabling Polish courts, but above all the prosecutions, to conduct ex-traditional proceedings aimed at issuing persons to whom criminal proceedings are pending in the territory of the Republic of Poland. According to the National Public Prosecutor's Office's records, there are currently four such proceedings. According to the data of the Ministry of Justice, the turnover with Argentina is maintained at a level of 1 and 2 applications per year. The agreement is modelled on the European Convention on Extradition, drawn up in Paris on 13 December 1957, which has been bound by Poland since 1993. All these provisions, the agreements were discussed at the committee meeting, as well as in the explanatory memorandum, so let me ignore this passage, these considerations. It is undoubtedly worth noting that, at the express request of the Argentine party, whose legislation allows for the surrender of its own citizens, the issue of the surrender of its own citizens is regulated in a separate provision. Such regulations are also contained in Article. 4 issues related to the release. During the negotiations, our party ensured the conclusion in the agreement of provisions in accordance with procedural guarantees provided by Polish internal law to suspects and accused persons. Such guarantees will, for example, be granted. due to the use of so-called. simplified extradition, where it is possible to simplify the procedure and withdraw from complex proceedings after written consent has been given by a person subject to extradition. Such proceding makes the procedure shorter and generates less costs. To conclude: the purpose of the bill presented to the Sejm and now to the Senate on ratification of the extradition agreement with Argentina is to bring into force a bilateral instrument which creates a legal framework for the prosecution to apply for extradition. Such cooperation is not possible without ratification and entry into force of the Agreement. Thanks to the agreement, both courts and prosecutors will have a specific, comprehensive instrument that will provide the basis for extradition without the need to apply for reciprocity and provide additional guarantees. This deal is one of the last... Argentina is one of the last countries with which we do not have such an agreement, and therefore, on behalf of the government, I request that the Senate adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u212	Since you weren't at the committee meeting, I didn't have the opportunity to ask you that question. Minister, how many Polish citizens are serving prison sentences in Argentina?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u213	I don't have that kind of information, but the information I have is that I'm about to present to you... Certainly the Polish side is more active when it comes to applications. The Argentine party sent 1 application in the years 2018 to 2020 and therefore these are not significant figures. But we are removing a certain vacuum here, and everyone, when it comes to a serious crime, and from the information that the prosecution gives us, it may be rare, but it happens sometimes it's about serious crimes... Therefore, this agreement is necessary. [[Minister...]] I know the deal doesn't apply to people who stay at the bet, but... [[Oh, I get it.]] Of course, we can reply in writing. Perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has such information, but unfortunately the advisor does not have such information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u214	I'll have the information in writing, please. Okay? Is there any Polish citizens who are in Argentine prisons? I suspect these prisons are slightly different from here. Or are the conditions the same?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u215	The Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will give you such a written reply. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u216	Thank you very much. Anybody else... I can't hear you. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... No, there are no senators enrolled for the discussion. I therefore inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... I mean. No one signed up. But 3 senators gave a speech to the minutes and these are senators: Alexander Sweed, Mariusz Gromko and Krzysztof Brejza. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. The senator's already distracted me by approaching the podium. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and contained in print No 76 and the committee's report In print No 76 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Law This draft is a senate proposal to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which ruled on 11 June 2019 that Article. 87 §1 of the Penal Code to the extent that it requires a court to combine imprisonment and limitation of liberty, to impose a total sentence of imprisonment, after, of course, a prior conversion of the sentence of imprisonment to imprisonment is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1st Constitution. The Court has stated that Article. 87 §1 of the Penal Code reduces both the function of justice and the consideration of the case to automatic conversion of the penalty, only limits the role of the court. Therefore, there is this Senate initiative. The joint committees have reported... In fact, your marshal has tabled an amendment to the proposed bill. She was adopted by the committees by 11 votes in favour, 6 against. One senator abstained. Mr Kwiatkowski's request to accept the proposal in full with an amendment was also tabled and he was voted unanimously. And I hereby request, on behalf of the joint committees, that this law be adopted with an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u218	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Rafał Ambrozik to represent it. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister, just a microphone...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u219	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! The government's position on this project is as follows. In our opinion, the original draft was better implemented by the Constitutional Tribunal. This regulation was detailed, well thought out and also took into account the broader catalogue of circumstances. Therefore, our position is that the law should be adopted in the wording of the original draft.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u220	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. And for the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. And this third reading would only cover the vote. And it will be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now suggest that, after considering the next item on the agenda, which is the 14th item, concerning the draft law amending the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Senate proceed with the examination of the twenty-fourth item, i.e. the second reading... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: And Andrew...]] [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] Because the Minister is. ...Project of the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Penal Code. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And then we'll go back to dealing with the items in the order of the agenda. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law [[Talking in the O.R.]] A moment of peace, please. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 74 and the committee's report . in print 74 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Breja, to submit a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission. His... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please come closer to the microphone.]] Maybe I'll just plug in... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait a minute. Can you hear me? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Yes, you are now heard.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission. Its aim is to simplify the criminal procedure for the possibility for the victim to bring a subsidised indictment. The applicant proposes to return to legal status before 5 October 2019. At that time, if the order of the prosecutor to terminate the preliminary proceedings by the court was repealed, and after the decision of the prosecutor to dismiss the victim could be brought directly to the court by a subsidiary indictment. I would like to remind you that this was an amendment introduced in 2006, which worked successfully until 5 October 2019. Currently, since October 5th Ub. R., the decision of the prosecutor to rescind must be contested to the district attorney. And only after the district attorney has given the order to maintain the order of the district attorney, the victim has the right to file a subsidiary indictment. What is the situation of the victim? First of all, he was actually extended the way to a subsidised indictment. These are additional months of waiting for the court to hear the case. Secondly, the victim bears additional costs as he must benefit from additional legal assistance. So the procedure is not only prolonged, but it is also more expensive. In an extreme situation, the road to a subsidised indictment can be blocked. Because if it is a condition for the act to be filed to remain in force again, then what should be done when the Supreme Prosecutor has withdrawn the order of the subordinate prosecutor, and once again, he will refuse to open proceedings again. Then the victim only has the opportunity to file another complaint against the district attorney, and the district attorney will rescind the decision, etc., etc. In such a situation, it appears that one time limit may be the expiry of the limitation period for criminal offences and that the victim will actually be prevented from referring the indictment to the court. Therefore, the current solutions call into question the exercise of constitutional authority, the principle of access to court, because everyone has the right to present their case to an independent, impartial, independent court. In this situation, this road may be blocked. Therefore, the bill improves the position of the victim, implements the right of access to the court, shortens the way for a subsidised indictment and reduces costs for the victim. On 25 February the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 25 June 2020, the joint committees considered the law and introduced 2 amendments. These are the amendments proposed by the Supreme Court and the Helsinki Foundation, which is an amendment to the article. 55 k.p.k., technical and amendment proposed by the Association of Iustitia. The idea is that the victim, who is already taking action, can benefit from new solutions after the law has entered into force. The Legislative Commission recommends that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Krzysztof Breja to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed, you're welcome. Mr. Senator? The senator isn't connected. Therefore, would any of you like to ask another question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u223	Yes. Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! The government's position on this change is negative. We believe that to this end... The assessment of the institution's incorrect functioning of the possibility of bringing a subsidiary indictment resulted in such a law being adopted by Parliament. The mechanism that was in favour of this law was a return to the original model of considering the possibility of bringing a subsidiary indictment. First of all, it is a specific institution and it cannot replace the activities of state bodies, i.e. The prosecution's prosecution in the field of criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecutions, and the additional control mechanism exercised by the prosecutor-in-chief primarily serves to ensure proper supervision of the actions of the prosecutor who decided to discontinue the proceedings. At the same time, it is this formula that guarantees a reduction in the costs of the victim in the event that he brings in the order of the Supreme Prosecutor to cancel out... because the victim is not able to carry out evidence and can only be carried out before the courts as a result. Thus, this mechanism increases the quality of the proceedings, supervision and, at the same time, makes it possible for the prosecution to assess the cases presented to it more closely. For the prosecution, any subsidiary indictment that ends in a final conviction is a failure. Therefore, it is appropriate that there be an appropriate supervisory tool to avoid such incorrect, unfavorable actions by the prosecution. We have known from recent years such a large procedure, which concerned the Smolensk disaster, where only as a result of the subsidiary indictment was proven... a conviction was handed down against those involved in organizing the flight to Smolensk. And such situations are the failure of the D.A.'s office, always. And that is why it is appropriate that this supervision mechanism should function, so that in the future the prosecution should not suffer such failures.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have the peace of mind? There are no calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I would also like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would cover only the vote and will therefore be conducted together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 163 and the committee's report In print 163 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u225	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a very important initiative by the Senate on civil rights, concerning the whole justice system, it can be said that it is an initiative in the philosophy of law, in the philosophy of punishment and in the philosophy of how the justice system is to be regulated. I had a long time to talk about this, but seeing the interest of each side of the room, and also because every 5 minutes the agenda changes, I will only and only present that the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions recommends that the draft be adopted without amendments. If the government doesn't argue with me too much, I won't go into too deep polemics either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? The Minister is heading for the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u227	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! There have already been many words and many arguments in this discussion, but the key elements of this discussion should be underlined today. We do not share the concerns or concerns of the applicants primarily because this model we are talking about is not a model aimed at anyone, if we are talking about a professional group, but a general model, which is generally about how penalties are to be imposed. Until 2015, there was a model similar to that adopted in this provision and in 2015 this model was liberalised towards a wider range of freedoms. What is important, this does not apply to any specific crime, but to the rules, it concerns fraud, beating and all kinds of other crimes which, in their substantive law, do not contain a provision indicating the possibility of imposing a penalty for the restriction of liberty or fines. At the same time, it should be stressed that the main legal environment, i.e. the lawyers of the Jagiellonian University, who were mostly criticizing these solutions, pointing out that they could lead to unauthorised or overly restrictive treatment of specific professional groups... According to these lawyers, we're not in the Senate today, we're not in the Senate. According to the same group of lawyers, your marshal is not a senator, Mr. Senator is not a senator, I am not an MP. Why? Because they question such fundamental issues concerning the Polish system and state of our democracy. Hence, it is not possible to take seriously what they have taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u228	I think it's too much, Minister, for last... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u229	Yes, I'd like to ask you that question. I'd like to ask you about the state of the case against a group of doctors. The case concerns the death of Minister Ziobra's father. I'm asking because I have a suspicion that this case is the basis for a change of law in this part.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u230	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u231	Dear Marshal! Mr. Senator! This is a provision concerning part of the general criminal code, and it does not apply to doctors, as it has been misconstrued here. I can give you an example of what's going on. For example: As a result, it is not possible for the court to impose a fine, for example, on the suspect, who cheats older persons for large amounts, and in accordance with the rule that has been in force so far. 100 PLN. The law that we have amended gives greater procedural guarantees and requires the court to explain its decisions to this type of court. And unfortunately, the manipulation that emerged in the public discussion was to direct this discussion towards only one crime, which does not concern one professional group, because there is no such crime as a medical error, so I regret that question. Of course, the details of the procedure you're asking me, I don't know. As far as possible and legally possible, the National Public Prosecutor's Office can provide written information, so I cannot accept this question for consideration. Now, as your Marshal has said earlier, I would just like to point out that the key element in this discussion, which I think we should take into account, is the philosophy of the system, not the focus on casuistics, which misreads the intentions of the general rule category. And this dispute among criminal law specialists has been conducted for years and is a general dispute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u232	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Marshal, you still wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u233	Since I understand that you and the Ministry are not interested in this Krakow case at all, I would ask for a written reply, Minister, what is the state of this case and whether there is still a charge of intentional manslaughter. Because first there was the charge of involuntary manslaughter of Mr. Ziobra's death, then, because the limitation period was approaching, the prosecution changed this charge to manslaughter. Is this claim still valid and who has been included in it? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u234	I can say that, in accordance with the competence of the Minister of Justice, only administrative supervision over the work of the courts has the power, so the details of the substantive information may simply not be given by the court. Mr. Senator, I'm sure the ministry will respond in accordance with the powers it has.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u235	Thank you very much. Any of you guys... Senator Wojciech Necessary. There you go, Mr. Senator. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But I have a question for the Minister. Kazuistic, but this case will be very common. However, will this regulation be subject to a doctor, e.g. a primary health care doctor who will provide advice, teleporades during the period of the outbreak of Coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, as part of this teleporad will find that the patient has provided him with such information as to suspect the flu and then it will be found that it was SARS-CoV-2 and the patient will be injured or die? Will this recipe include a doctor who, acting this way, may make a mistake? Is that why a doctor like that is going to jail? I'm asking this on behalf of thousands of doctors who will be in this situation. Yeah, there's been a reduction in the various regulations on the Coronavirus epidemic, the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic. We know that an amendment is being prepared, according to which officials fighting the coronavirus will be actually impunity, no matter what they've done. Doctors, on the other hand, will be punished with a ruthless prison. Therefore, I have this question: do you think that this provision will include doctors who will be in the situation that I have put forward? I think it's a simple situation, quite unambiguous. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u237	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u238	Thank you. I am happy to answer this question, because it shows just how inappropriate the framework in which the discussion on this subject is placed is. Namely, this provision, as it is placed in the general section of the criminal code, concerns every crime, every sentence. This concerns both this provision which is already adopted and that which is proposed. This applies to the doctor, but also to the seller, to every man and every crime. This is a provision that the court applies when it finds fault, once it has assessed that a sentence of imprisonment should be imposed. The difference between the situation desired by the applicants and that which falls within the current law is that, today, unless the penalty is more than 1 year's imprisonment, the court may decide, instead of that penalty, a limitation of liberty of less than 3 months, or a fine of less than 100 daily rates if it is simultaneously determined by a criminal measure, a compensatory measure or a forfeiture. The difference between the state of play and the condition desired by the applicants is that in this case, which we are talking about, there is no limit of 1 year. Well, I'm talking about a situation where they're already saying that such punishment should be imposed. It's about the punishment of the year of imprisonment. And that's the difference that applies to every crime found by the court. A discussion we can have here. It is always possible, on a legislative basis, to discuss whether liberalisation is appropriate to apply freedom measures, or whether the courts should have greater restrictions on the choice of freedom measures in criminal offences at risk of being sentenced to 8 years of imprisonment. So, in answer to this question, let me stress once again that this provision applies to every crime. You can't say by chance that this only applies to doctors, because it's manipulating a discussion about this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u239	Minister, you didn't answer that question. All you had to do was say yes or no. So I'm going to ask this question, so to speak, more in code: does this apply to the crimes of the article. 160 §1 of the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u240	Mrs. Marshal, I reserve the right not to be involved in a manipulation that is... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I ask directly: is this recipe...]] Mrs. Marshal, I think I have made it clear what the nature of the provisions in the general section of the Code is and how this specific provision applies. Answering a question that is subject to the entire discussion of a certain thesis that is false... Well, your marshal might as well ask me if it's about a simple beating, whether it's about fraud, or whether it's about any other crime. Both provisions apply to any sentence in respect of imprisonment, in the category of specific offences included in the substantive provisions of the Criminal Code. Mrs. Marshal, I have great respect for you, but I have the right not to allow the Ministry of Justice to be involved in such a manipulated discussion in answering questions with the thesis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u241	I'm gonna ask that question again. [[Strange, strange, Mr. Ambassador...]] Minister, I have asked a very simple question and I have not suggested any answer. Does this concern... Yes or no? Only one of these two answers interests me. Is this the case with the Article crimes? 160 §1 of the Penal Code? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u242	Dear Marshal, both the current legal status and the legal status desired by the applicants concern all offences for which the Criminal Code provides for a liability of up to 8 years of imprisonment. In my opinion, this answer covers the scope of this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u243	Senator Jolanta Hibner's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u244	Thank you very much. I understand that we are now discussing the criminal code, which includes. It's going to be about... above all, it's going to be about health care, medical people, who, for example, are going to be involved. may make a medical mistake, there may be some malfunctioning during the epidemic. They will be subject to severe punishment, including high prison sentences. I would like to ask you how these regulations, which you think are very good, and strengthening these rules, are meant to be in circulation at the moment and tomorrow will be considered a bill which will reduce the liability of officials during the epidemic. I would like to ask if the officials who are putting the state's budget at risk, that is, robbing us all, putting us all at risk, will be treated lightly. Will the current procedures you are talking about in the criminal provisions of the Code no longer be mandatory? Is this law supposed to be the rule that if Kali stole the chicken, Kali's bad, but if I steal the chicken, I'm good? Now, is the law supposed to work in such a way that the state is not only sticking things into different laws that often have nothing to do with basic laws, but are you still making laws that make assholes for yourselves, unlike what happens with doctors? The doctor saves lives, sometimes the doctor has to make decisions very quickly, sometimes there is a person on the operating table where it is so that one move of the doctor determines whether she survives or not, as well as whether or not. There's access to some kind of device. There were purchases at millions of zlotys, contracts for ventilators that weren't there, bad masks, wrong tests. Nothing? And I'm going to say that they're fired because they're officials because they're in the government now... How is that possible? How can you offer us such a thing? And how do we want to straighten out some of the things that you've messed up and about which you're trying to tell us that this is good, then you say no, because everyone must have justice. Where's the justice? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u245	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u246	The question is, where is this justice, it's very spacious and we could have a really long discussion about it... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, I think the senator asked more about the project you want to adopt. Whether it's gonna be like this or...]] Dear Marshal, this is not the subject of this bill we are discussing. Any legislative decisions on the new draft laws, if taken into account by the Sejm, will certainly be in the Senate and if I represent the Ministry of Justice during such a meeting, I would be very pleased to refer to the regulations adopted by the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u247	Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u248	I understand, Minister, that it is so that if we propose to increase the penalties for any, no matter what, professional group... This is about branding a professional group in a special way. And this group, as you know, is not that it is extremely important for us to have it, because we can all meet with the fact that we will need medical attention. You're the one who thinks... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, I'm talking to you! Behave yourself! [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: I'm listening to you...]] No, because you're talking. [[Voice from the room: How can you pay attention...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please calm down.]] Excuse me, I'm talking now, not you! [[Voice from the hall: A little culture...]] Exactly! [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please calm down.]] I'm talking to you, and you're talking to me. How can you do that? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, I'm asking you a question. Why are you different people? And not only at this moment, speaking of the fact that the one who does the profession of official, is to be outside the law that his law does not apply, and although he has done the crime, he is justified, because he is COVID, and the doctor who makes the mistake goes to prison. Explain that to me. Explain to our citizens why a doctor who makes a decision about their lives can be punished, and the one who stole it is not punished.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u249	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u250	Dear Senator, I regret to have to answer this question with great regret, and that is because, as I feel, you did not listen to me. It's because of this that... I've made it pretty clear that the rule in the general criminal code applies to all crimes. At the same time, you didn't tell me the truth when you said doctors were being put in prison. Namely, from the questionnaire conducted by the Ministry of Justice, it appears that in the area of offences under Article. 155, 156 and 160, which are generally considered to be the rules applicable to medical error investigations, no doctor has heard the sentence of imprisonment over a year. Therefore, if there is a discussion even with regard to these provisions, it is wrong. I would like to point out with all my determination: The High House has found itself in a very powerful field of manipulation relating to what is meant by the provision that has been adopted. A discussion has been brought before doctors, and this discussion might as well be brought to bakers. It insults the integrity of this chamber. I'll remind you. And let me stress that, Mrs. Marshal. That this discussion is conducted on the basis of an opinion made public by a group of lawyers from the Jagiellonian University, in which groups of seats of the senators of the current Senate of the Republic have never been covered... It seems to me that if someone treats our country in this way, then we should not find such an estimate in the statements of the Senators of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u251	Minister, let us draw our own conclusions on the competence of the various experts. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: I have only expressed my opinion.]] Good. I'll take that. There's one more question I'd like to ask. This recipe had a completely different sound before... I mean, that's what it sounds like. What happened... Since even in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the procedure for amending the codes That's a criminal code. However, it is slightly different, what was the Ministry of Justice's intention that this provision had just been amended by one of the shields? Well, it was kind of against the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. We didn't get a chance to ask. If the Minister could explain it to us...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u252	Dear Marshal, as to the compatibility of the procedure, I will not speak out, I voted in favour of this law as a Member. I think the procedure was correct. However, this provision was also included in the Criminal Code adopted last year, which was addressed to the Constitutional Court. According to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, which adopted this law, this provision is so necessary in the Polish criminal law system, in part of the general criminal code, that it should be applicable law. That is why it was proposed as a separate provision in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u253	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u254	Minister, why don't you want to wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling on this matter? And are you also suggesting that President Andrzej Duda is under the influence of this group of lawyers from Krakow, whom you think so badly?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u255	Well, Mr. Marshal, in these two questions there is a misunderstanding of two fundamental issues and a failure to reach basic information. [[Minister, that's why I'm asking you...]] Namely, in this respect, the Constitutional Tribunal issued... [[...because I don't understand it.]] Well, you just said that there is no judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, whereas the judgment on this revision of the criminal code was delivered by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal decided on the non-constitutionality of this law in view of the procedure which was applied to its adoption and therefore did not, in substance, refer to this article. Also President Andrzej Duda in his proposal did not refer to the substance of this article. Therefore, it is impossible to combine the views of the lawyers I have invoked with the position of either the President or the Constitutional Tribunal because the subject of the review was a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u256	Thank you, Minister. Did you repeat the procedure that was questioned? Have you applied another procedure that is foreseen for the codes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u257	Senator, the procedure applied to this law has been applied under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and this provision is applicable law. This is the legislative procedure. If you're a senator or a group of senators... here I'm not sure. I forgot. Surely there are entities entitled to control constitutionality. Surely, as a parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition, you have a constitutional number of representatives of Parliament who can apply to the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the procedure also of this law. Nevertheless, it is the law in force. In substance, this question of the senator is not related to the application to the Constitutional Tribunal and to the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, because it concerns the procedure, not the substance of the provision, its meaning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u258	I'd like to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary's question. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u259	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Minister answered my question very carefully, and I will allow myself to make it a little bit different. Minister, we've got an outbreak of coronavirus. The Minister wanted to compare the work of doctors, nurses, paramedics in the S.R. or in the emergency room or elsewhere to the work of bakers. I bow to the bakers. They do their hard work, they provide us with food. In this difficult situation at the time of the epidemic, we also had bread at the beginning. I'm drooling my forehead again. But comparing the work of one to another in the context of the article paragraph. 37a shows some strange attitude of the Minister. I'd say a little dead. I mean, I guess the minister wasn't at the S.R. and he didn't see what was going on there, and he also has no imagination to imagine what would happen in two or three months. Therefore, let me ask the Minister in this way: is the Minister and the Ministry you represent in contact with the Ministry of Health and is this unwillingness to change this infamous article also shared by the Ministry of Health? Do you consult? In a time of epidemic and what could happen in a few months... Has the Ministry of Health been consulted, and is the Ministry of Health, like you, convinced that this more ruthless punishment is now needed for doctors as well? Because I'm not saying it's just that. But in this particular context, have you had any consultation, and what does this consultation reveal? Does the Ministry of Health support your position? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u260	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u261	Senator, I would like to stress once again that there is a complete misunderstanding in this Chamber of the substance of the provisions of the general criminal code. No active rules have been introduced that aggravate the punishment against doctors. I pointed out that these laws concern both doctors and bakers, not because of my attitude towards any of these professions, because I think everyone deserves respect. This is equal respect for different professions. We know very well that in a time of pandemic, we really all support doctors and wish them well. And thank you for their commitment. However, in answer formally to the question whether this applies to doctors, I found that this applies to doctors and also to bakers, concerns Members, concerns senators, concerns police officers, firemen... I can name all the competitions that are registered in Poland. If I have previously stated that the provision of the General Code concerns any offence which fulfils the conditions of that general provision and any judgment for any such offence, it means that all these offences can be committed by any person. In short, it is impossible to identify the groups of people affected by this provision because it is a general provision. I do not know how more precisely I can say that something that is a general principle is general and not specific, does not concern a particular profession. I'm trying to do it as clearly as I can. Perhaps it works for me, and I am inefficiently convincing you to do so. However, I repeat: the rule generally concerns the principles of the functioning of the Criminal Code and the rules on penalties and is not linked to any specific crime or any specific professional group. So it's about every profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. Anyone else want to ask a question? No. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give us a written answer to the question asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. At this point, I'm holding a recess until 9:00 p.m. I would like to inform you that the discussion will take place later and that the vote will take place immediately after the break. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: What about communications?]] We don't have any messages, but you'll be informed... Oh, there's messages, so they'll be read. Because of the Secretary's equipment failure, I'll read the announcements. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of applications submitted at the 14th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, Senate printing No 168, will take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in Senate sitting in room 176. The second Communication: Joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of applications submitted at the 14th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, Senate printing No 162, and the Act amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws, Senate printing No 167, will take place today, 20 minutes after the announcement of a break in Senate session in room 176. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 52 to 21 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u263	Please take your seats. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 169 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u264	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present the report of the Health Committee in print No 169 Z, together with a summary of the conclusions. The Commission, at its meeting on 11 August 2020, considered the proposals made during the debate on the Law amending certain laws to ensure the health protection functioning in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic and after it has ceased to exist and presents the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in paragraphs 1 Amendments 1, 2, 8 and 14 are legislative and editorial in nature and can therefore be voted on together. I also inform the High House that minority proposals have been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll introduce them from the spot. Please accept the amendments supported by a minority of committees. These are amendments 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 56, 59, 61, 72, 78 and 82. To make it easier, these are amendments tabled in various configurations by Martynowski, Zając and Pociej senators. Thank you, and I ask you to accept them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u267	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that during the discussion, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Mr Marek Martynowski, Mr Józef Zając, Mr Senator Alexander Pociej, Mr Jerzy Czerwiński and Mrs Joanna Sekuła submitted their conclusions. I'm asking you to be precise, because we have quite a few votes ahead. As you know, earlier during one of the votes there was a failure of the electronic system, which was noticed with delay, because it happened in the upper floor. I'm asking you to focus, and I'm allergic to everyone's attention. First of all, I'm talking to computer scientists. So that we do not have to repeat any votes for technical reasons. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I have...]] [[Joanna Sekuła wants to withdraw the amendment.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. [[Mr. Marshal, Joanna Sekuła wants to withdraw the amendment.]] Which is the amendment? [[Amendment 67.]] Does anyone want to support Amendment 67, which has been withdrawn? No. Thank you very much. We accept that the amendment has been withdrawn by the applicant. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and a resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the terms resulting from the amendments adopted. I would like to ask the High Senate to allow Amendments 1, 2, 8 and 14 to be voted on in total, 18, 19, 21 and 23, 42, 43, 46, 48, 49, 54 and 81 and 84. They are purely legislative and editorial. We discussed this at the committee meeting and obtained the initial agreement of both parties, but it is my duty to ask you this. If I don't hear any objection... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u268	I'm sorry, but we as a law and justice club won't agree to this because we're against at least one of these amendments. [[Which amendment is that, Senator? I'm the one who's gonna shut her out of this collective vote.]] From what we've established, it appears that, at least, Amendment 46 is... We're against it. [[Amendment 23.]] [[Voice from the room: Amendments 3, 6, 13, 15...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u269	But Amendments 3 and 6 weren't in my proposal. [[But Amendment 46...]] Amendment 46 is off. Senator, which one? [[Twenty-three.]] Twenty-three, okay. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Counselor, would you please... [[Voice from the room: If there is an objection, then we must vote...]] No, that's not what I mean. Please just support me in this message that these are basically editorial amendments. Well, if there are doubts, we will exclude from this the amendments proposed by the minority rapporteur, Senator Czudowska. I exclude from this collective vote amendments 23 and 46. Yes? Okay? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you very much. Then I'll read it again. I propose that amendments 1, 2, 8.14, 18, 19... [[Voice from the room: No. 13 too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, then we have to... I don't think we're gonna play this game, and we're gonna have to go with everybody one at a time. Good. It's for the rescue, so to speak, the tempo is that Amendments 1 and 2 are only editorial, so let's vote them together. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's about to start working. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working. It's working now.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? The remote vote is slow. [[Voice from the room: Everyone...]] Have all the remotes voted yet? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Okay. Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Those were Amendments 1 and 2, I remind you. Attention, amendments 3, 6, 16, 50 and 53 must be voted in total. If you release me from this, I will not read the justification for the amendments you have in front of you. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to apply... Oh, another remote person. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 4 seeks to supplement the Law on the revision of the Criminal Code on the power of the court to convert a sentence of imprisonment into a fine or a sentence of limitation of liberty In cases where the law provides for a sentence of imprisonment of not more than 8 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 1 senator in favour, 94 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 5 seeks to supplement the Act on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity as regards the basis for the assessment of maternity allowance In cases where the amendment of the employment contract or other act on the basis of which the employment relationship was based, consisting of a change in the working time dimension, has been made on the basis of the provisions of the so-called law. the COVID Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted against, 2 against, 91 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 6 has already been voted out. Note: Amendments 7, 17, 51 and 53 must be voted in total... [[Voices from the room: No 55.]] No. 55, I'm so sorry. Amendments 7, 17, 51 and 55 should be voted on jointly. These amendments aim at establishing the legal basis for the possibility to withdraw from the oral examination in the examination session of the specialized examination if it is not possible to carry out it during an epidemic or epidemic situation because of the safety of the persons taking part in the examination. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendments 8 and, 9 aim to eliminate misrepresentation and ensure the correctness of terminology, which is of the type of editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 10, 11 and 12 are editorial. Amendment 11 seeks to delete the unnecessary provision. Who's in favour? [[Voice from room 11 and 12?]] Yes, I'm leaving number 13 because there were doubts about the PiS club. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 13 seeks to ensure that terminology is correct. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 49 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 14, seeks to ensure that the terminology is correct. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendments 15 and 80 should be voted on together. They aim to delete the rules providing for the possibility to provide information about the displayed reception for mobile applications used by the patient on request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 18 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 19 seeks to ensure legislative consistency in the proposed provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Note that amendments 20, 44, 52, 57, 58, 60, 63, 65, 66, 69, 71, 73 The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on amendments Nos 25 and 41, 56, 62, 64, 72, 78 and 82. These amendments seek to delete the rules resulting from the amendments tabled at the stage of the examination of the draft by the relevant Sejm Committee and the amendments tabled at second reading. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 21 seeks to define precisely the subject matter of the regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 22 seeks to modify the non-precision reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 23 is editorial. Who's against... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 50 for, 45 against. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 24 seeks to delete the rules providing for the possibility to provide information on the electronic referral in the Medical Information System to mobile applications of the recipient on request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 2 for, 92 against. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 42 seeks to delete unnecessary wording in the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 Senators voted 90 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 43 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 91 for, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 45 seeks to refrain from specifying in the provision the ways in which the service provider is to inform the recipient of the digitisation of his medical records. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 94 senators voted, 48 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 46 seeks to ensure a correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 49 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 47 seeks to establish a standardization according to which, if a patient has made a statement in paper form forming part of his medical records, the provider of electronic medical records may include it in the electronic system in which he keeps the medical records together with the signature of the person making the statement, the date of signature, registered on the device enabling the digital signature to be reproduced. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 49 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 48 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] We are now voting on Amendment 49, which is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 54 seeks to modify the erroneous reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 59 seeks to establish a standardization according to which, during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic situation declared by the COVID-19, a Prison Service officer may perform the tasks of ensuring order and security in the office serving the Minister of Justice and in the National Public Prosecutor's Office. not more than 24 hours followed by at least 48 hours off duty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They're just prison services. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 61 seeks to ensure that, as of 5 September of this year, the provisions in force providing for the possibility for collegial professional authorities to adopt resolutions, as well as their implementing bodies and other internal bodies, using means of direct distance or circulation communication. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Well, it's gonna be an interesting result. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 62... Amendment 68, I'm so sorry. Amendment 68 seeks to delete the provision the subject matter of which is regulated by the Public Finance Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Senator Mammoths voting? Oh, thank you very much. He's gone. Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 50 for, 45 against. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 70 aims to establish a transitional standard for the State Specialisation Exam which took place before the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 90 for, 4 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 81 seeks to ensure a consistent determination of the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 84 seeks to ensure a correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 94 senators, 90 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. We went through the bill with the greatest number of amendments. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the support of the market for insurance of commercial claims in relation to the counter-productive effects of COVID-19. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in printing 161 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u271	Does the applicant senator, Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanka, want to speak yet? [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled by the Member States. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's just that if someone on the remote sleeps at least one, I have to wait 20 seconds for the system to collect it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, sir. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 92 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the support of the market for commercial receivables insurance in relation to the counter-productive effects of COVID-19. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law on liability for breach of the provisions of the mutual recognition regulation in accordance with the laws of another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; this is Senate printing No 172 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments tabled. We are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to align the general definition of the subject-matter of the Act with the order corresponding to the substantive provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 2 aims to ensure the terminology coherence between the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on mutual recognition of goods, in accordance with the law put on the market in another Member State, and the law for its application. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 3 aims at guaranteeing the law of the relevant vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on liability for breach of the provisions of the mutual recognition regulation in accordance with the laws of another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 165 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. On behalf of both committees, I request that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u274	Mr. Marshal, we are, of course, opposed to the motion to reject the bill. A minority of committees supported some proposals that serve, among others. introducing rules allowing the Council of Ministers to issue a regulation on the payment of welfare allowances after 4 September when, for example, Some school will be quarantined and the kids won't be able to go to it. Rejection of this law will result in good amendments not being accepted, and all the consequences that the majority of committees have found negative will still come into force, because probably tomorrow the Sejm will reject any rejection of the law. So there is an appeal to consider whether, by rejecting this law and preventing good amendments, you will not act to the detriment of many Polish families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u275	Thank you very much, senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? They were: Senator Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Krzysztof Mróz, Senator Ryszard Majer and Senator Kazimierz Klein. [[If you don't mind...]] The senator is not the applicant, you are the rapporteur, and now we are asking the applicants. [[I'm sorry.]] We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 Senators voted, 49 for, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. [[Voice in the O.R.: Rejection...]] [[Speech in the background of the recording]] Yeah, but we're taking a resolution on this, and it's a rejection resolution. The bill is denied. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 164 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the proposal to adopt the law without amendments was not accepted by the members of the committee, and the proposals for amendments to the Act were tabled by Senator Sagatowska and Mr Ujazdowski They were unanimously accepted by all the members of the committee. I therefore ask that these amendments be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u277	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? This was Senator Janina Sagatowska, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski and Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: No, first the amendments...]] First the amendments, yes, the right point... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There was no request for adoption without amendments. [[The voice from the hall: Well, it was... Mr. Marshal read...]] No. No, no. Senator Dorota Tobiszowska clearly reported that the committee is asking for 3 amendments that have been approved... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a summary of all the proposals. There are these conclusions...]] [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, I said that in the committee, the motion to adopt the bill without amendments was not accepted by the senators, and the requests for...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But it was reported... All right. All right. Officials will always lead us to despair. Good. Which reminds me, just to sort things out. The committee... Since a proposal for a law without amendments has been tabled, we must vote on it But let me remind you that the committee has tabled three amendments that have been approved by the whole committee. Therefore, following this printing, I put to the vote a motion to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Voice from the courtroom: You have to vote in favour, because like a marshal...]] But the senator. Sagatovsky shows me that against... Well, Mr. Marshal, I'll be listening to the senator here after all. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. We'll wait 20 seconds because... Oh, no, they made it. The votes were 95 senators, 42 votes against, 51 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, sir. In the face of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments. Attention, amendments No 1.3 should be voted on together. Amendments No 1 and 3 modify the group of beneficiaries of the Act, prejudging that the cash benefit will also be granted to persons sent or deported by the Soviet Union authorities in the years 1936 and 1939. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators, 57 votes against, 33 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] In the light of the results of the vote, the Senate has passed a resolution... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: Until then, amendments...]] Oh, excuse me. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, as I prophetically said I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the USSR in 1939 and 1956. By the way, my dear officials, since the amendment covers the period since 1936, we should really change the title of this law by the way. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 162 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jolanta Hibner, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, a vote was held: 12 senators were against the bill and 10 against it. Of course, we're talking about a law on amending the Renewable Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? These are Marshal Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, Senator Józef Łyczak and Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the minority of the Committee on the Environment to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 91 Senators voted, 46 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. We return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 167 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u280	The joint committees supported all the proposals presented in the compilation. There's been a vote. Amendments 1, 3 and 8 were all voted in favour, unanimous, and those proposals were supported by the government, and Amendment 2 did not receive government support, but was supported by the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the other Senators still want to speak? That person is Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. No. Then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you would like to follow the voice of the rapporteur, Senator Pupa, I would remind you that Amendments 1 and 3 I propose that we vote them together and amendments 2, 9 and 10 separately. Yes? I don't see why not. [[It's only number two.]] [[Just the second amendment.]] [[Voice from the room: There are 8 amendments.]] I'm 10. So we vote separately only on Amendment 2, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Okay. Good. As a result, I shall put amendments 1 and 3 to the vote at the end of the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] We therefore proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, which eliminates the provision of information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 49 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure took place during the discussion and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 168 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u282	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At today's joint meeting, the two committees presented the same position: they propose the adoption of amendments No 1 and 6 which were initially adopted and the additional amendment No 5 which was tabled today by Senator Tyszkiewicz. She was also supported. And they're filing for a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u283	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you, Senator applicant, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak yet? [[No, we don't.]] The other rapporteur was Senator Janusz Błucherz. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] Attention, amendments 2 and 6 should be voted on together. They're going to provide a terminological consistency bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 3 adapts the provision of the law to the terminology used in copyright law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 4 aims to ensure that the retention of the driving licence referred to in road traffic law is compatible with the design adopted in this respect in the Code of Offences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 5 seeks to compensate the counties for the income lost as a result of the entry into force of the Act in the form of a special subsidy from the Fund, the Central Register of Vehicles and Drivers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] We are now voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of protection and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 170 A and 170 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 171 A and No 171 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Code. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 76 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Rafał Ambrozik to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Code and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Rafał Ambrozik to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No 74 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Breja to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 65]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Breja to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the amendment of the Prison Service Act and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 166 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Joint Committees, i.e. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration shall, after its meeting on 13 August, present the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate shall accept the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1, 3 and 8. In addition, committees inform that Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Janusz Pęcherz, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz made changes to their conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u285	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak yet? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were submitted by Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Bogdan Borusewicz, Janusz Pęcherz, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Aleksander Pociej, Jerzy Wcisła, Leszek Czarnobaj, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, and the rapporteurs were Viktor Durlak and Alexander Pociej. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. I request and ask that the drafting, precision and language amendments which may be voted together... These are Amendments 3, 4, 5, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 32, 33 and 34. Can we vote them together? [[Voice from the room: We can.]] Thank you very much. So we proceed with the vote. We begin with Amendment 1, which should be voted on together with Amendments 29 and 37. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 2, 30 and 38. These amendments aim to grant officers of the National Tax Administration a incentive benefit and the right to reimbursement of the costs incurred for legal protection of the same amount as those accorded to other services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 66]] [[Voice from the room: Now the correction block?]] Yeah, right now, that block of amendments we were talking about, i.e. Amendments 3, 4, 5... etc. up to 34 with breaks... I can read all the numbers if you'd like. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Turn on the machine, please. Who's in favour? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, these are editorials. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 93 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 67]] Now amendments 6, 17, 28 and 31. They should be voted on together. These amendments increase the amount of funds granted to officers for the reimbursement of costs spent on legal protection. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 94 in favour and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 7 harmonising the provisions of the pragmatic laws states that the right of police officers to feed in nature will depend solely on the number of hours of service rendered. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, the voting mechanism is not working... Oh, it's working.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then you've got some time. I can see on my screen that everyone has already voted, so please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 8 will rule out voting on Amendment 9. And Amendment 8 grants police officers in the candidate's service the right to an increased nutritional rate on leave or leave. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Now for a change, one person from the remote is late. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendments 10 and 25 should be voted together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 11. They allow policemen and firefighters to count the service period for years of work without making this right dependent on the time limit for taking up work after the day of release from service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 71]] About Amendment 12 and... no, that's already been done. Now Amendment 13. Amendment 13 allows a policeman to provide written explanations in disciplinary proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 3 votes against, 91 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 15 allows disciplinary proceedings against a police officer to extend the duration of the appeal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 3 were in favour, 92 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 73]] Attention, amendments 26 and 35 must be voted in total. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 27 and 36. Amendments 26 and 35 indicate the periods of service and employment to be taken into account in determining the amount of the allowance for service for years for Prison Service officers and specify the rules for their payment for 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] All subsequent amendments have already been voted in total votes, so we are proceeding... [[Voices in the O.R.: No, no.]] Yes. [[Voice from the room: What about Amendment 29?]] I can read it to you. Amendment 29 has already been voted on, including Amendments 1 and 37. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was, Mr. Marshal.]] That's what happened. [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions concerning the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the amendment of the Prison Service Act and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is in print No 138 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Commission requests all amendments and then the entire text of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-13-senat-14-3.u287	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicant, who is also Senator Magdalena Kochan. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. "Print No 138 X" followed by the adoption of the draft from Print No 138 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments tabled by the committees. Attention, amendments 1 and 5 must be voted together. These amendments take into account the consequences of extending the scope of this project to regulation on the prohibition of approaching a person affected by family violence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 76]] As a curiosity, I'm going to tell you that they vote the most beautifully upstairs, because there's always a 7 out of 7. Amendments 6 and 7 should also be voted together. These amendments aim to establish the vacathio legis, both in the case of the amended law and the law designed in a manner consistent with the parliamentary work calendar and in accordance with the principle of correct legislation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 77]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted in favour, 50 votes in favour, no one voted against, 45 abstentions. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent the Senate in further work on this project. Looks like it's over. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We are not dealing with the point of change in committees today. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the committees will be voted at the end of the Senate meeting, which has been extended until Monday. Since laws may come from the Sejm, which will make us also have to stay on Tuesday, this will be the continuation of the current sitting. I'm declaring a recess until Monday at 4:00 p.m. I ask the committees to use the morning to work on the laws that will come from the Sejm. I'll see you Monday. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 44]]
