ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u1	Good morning. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u2	Thank you. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Government draft law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, print No 354. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on the calculation of the annual gross domestic product, print No 355. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We have formal requests. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u3	God bless you! Good day. Mrs. Marshal! Honourable High Izbo! Release the nation from quarantine. It's about time. If you do so now, perhaps you will somehow get away with it, perhaps not all will stand before the Court of State, perhaps Minister Szumowski will not be hanged at the lighthouse at the square of the Three Crosses by the people of Warsaw. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What are you talking about, man? No, sir, you're welcome. Sir, I'm asking you to pay attention to... If you come down... You're in the Seym, so watch your mouth, sir. I pay attention to words. I'm calling you into order. Don't say things like that. I refer to the historical events of 1794... I call you to order, sir. I'm calling you into order. We are in 2020, sir. ...from 1831. Shame, shame! Historical events. Perhaps this story is a stranger to your marshal, but I live this story and obey - I obey. You can't say things like that. I move that the Senior Convention be convened... Thank you. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. You're welcome... I propose a recess to call the Senior Convention Convention, so that you may... Mr President, please step out of the podium. Turn it off... Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. One minute. And Kaminski from Morawiecki... Mr President, please step out of the podium. He violated the seriousness of the Sejm! Really?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u4	Mr President, please step out of the podium. This is the last time I'm warning you. Isn't that right? Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. But hanging in the Seym? There are limits.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u5	Mrs. Marshal! I'll file a formal motion right now, but I wanted to answer to Mr. Braun. The blessed one who has nothing to say does not follow this fact in the word. I will treat you as ashamed in this House of these words. A representative of the Left says so. Do you know why? That's because, in God's words, you're breaking your own commandments. Shame and shame! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am making a formal motion, your marshal, to put the Prime Minister on the agenda, despite all this, to announce the preparations for the elections, because we have four days until the elections in the 30-million-dollar country, we do not know when the elections will take place, how they will be held, who will organize them and whether these elections will be held at all. But we don't want the Prime Minister to... We'd like the Prime Minister to say a few words. Since you're printing these cards, since the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, is preparing this, at least let him say he's doing it. We have consistently been in favour of moving the elections, there is a constitutional way to do this, there is a guarantee regarding the introduction of a natural disaster, so it is enough to use (the bell) this constitutional element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u6	Speaking of Mr Braun, your words were outrageous. I state that you have violated the seriousness of the Sejm, Mr. With regard to Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski's request - Mr Gawkowski, I already informed the public yesterday, I applied this morning to the Constitutional Court for a declaration of conformity with the Constitution of the Article. 289 electoral codes... It's unobtrusive. ...which disables the possibility of shifting the election deadline, and I'm waiting for information. At the same time, you know that yesterday I urgently asked the State Election Commission as the highest electoral authority responsible for holding the elections, for information on whether the PKW was able to hold the elections on 10 May, and I received a reply late last night. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please, sir, I ask you to calm down. I got late. in the evening information from the State Election Commission, official, that on 10 May it is not possible to hold elections by this committee. Impossible. One thing has nothing to do with the other, sir. You knew exactly what I said last night. [[Applause]] Mr President, in 2012, when you decided on the fate of all Poles, all Poles, raising the retirement age... Oh, no. ... The Senate did this for only seven days, and within 10 days he signed the President's bill. Your Marshal... The Senate did this law for 30 days, even though my request - ladies and gentlemen, let's not discuss it because it doesn't matter anymore... Your Marshal, our projects lie... ...to your Marshal of the Senate was so that, no matter what decision the Senate wants to make, it would be urgent. We will not discuss this, Mr... No, it's not a discussion, it's not a point of order, it was my explanation. It was Karczewski who delayed his work yesterday. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda... With a formal motion, Your Marshal. I can hear you, sir, in a moment. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection (prints Nos 335 and 353). In a moment, I will ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee. Yes, sir. I would just like to remind you that this was my explanation in response to Mr Gawkowski's request. This is not on the agenda and it is not open to discussion. I am counting on a formal request, sir. You're welcome. Your Marshal, but you should be the one to tell us what's going on with the election.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With a formal request for a break and a call for the Senior Convention to be made by the Marshal of the Sejm to clarify the alleged application to the Constitutional Tribunal on the alleged marshal's powers to move elections. Everyone, even those with elementary knowledge, knows that the Constitutional Tribunal cannot complement the Marshal of the Sejm's powers to postpone the election term. The only legally acceptable option is to introduce a natural disaster that we have been requesting for almost two months. Unfortunately, only for political reasons, only for reasons of one man's ill stubbornness, the state is not fulfilling this constitutional obligation. And today, you're bringing in huge chaos. Four days before the election, the marshal realizes that the election is impossible. Your marshal, it's been known for months. Your marshal, you, as the second person in the country, should be responsible, should know that in such a formula of Poles you are scared away from [[♪ The bell ♪]] the most important electoral act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u8	Thank you, sir, for this speech. Mr President, we have different opinions. We'll stay with our own. I'm not going to convince you. People alone... Your marshal, we've had the same opinion since yesterday. Mr President, since there was a request for a break, I am announcing a minute's break. I'm not calling the Senior Convention. Wait a minute. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection (prints Nos 335 and 353). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u9	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Fertility and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, print No. 335. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading on 15 April 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 5 May 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Act of 10 July 2007 on Fertilisation and Fertilization introduces the provisions of the Art. Regulation (EU) No 2019/1009 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing provisions concerning the making available on the market of fertilising products of the European Union. These provisions of Regulation 2019/1009 will apply from 16 April 2020. The provisions of the Article shall apply. Regulation No 2019/1009 requires the Member States of the European Union to designate a notifying authority which will be responsible for the development and application of the procedures necessary for the assessment and notification of conformity assessment bodies for European Union fertilising products and for the monitoring of notified bodies. High Seym! Those provisions shall be laid down by the notifying authority and its tasks. In the Republic of Poland, the notifying authority will be the minister responsible for economic affairs. It is also proposed that the assessment and monitoring of conformity assessment bodies for notification be carried out by the Polish Accreditation Centre. High Seym! The obligation of the Minister responsible for the economy to develop the procedures necessary for the assessment and notification of conformity assessment bodies and the monitoring of notified bodies is also introduced. And then on the basis of Article. 23 of Regulation 2019/1009 The Minister shall inform the European Commission of these procedures and of any changes thereto. There are also changes in this law concerning the use of urea. They concern the coating of urea in order to reduce ammonia emissions to the atmosphere according to the European Commission's direction of action. I would also like to say that the introduction in the proposed regulation of Regulation 2019/1009 is without prejudice to the current national rules concerning the placing on the market of fertilisers and plant support products. These fertilisers and measures will continue to be placed on the market in our territory on the basis of a marketing authorisation granted by the Minister responsible for Agriculture. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u10	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Richard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, to present the position of the club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u11	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending the Law on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. This law amends the Fertilisation and Fertilisation Act in connection with the provision and amendment of the provisions contained in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union which lays down rules on the regulation of the fertilising products market. We introduce regulations adapting Polish law to European Union law. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Minister for Economic Affairs will be responsible for these provisions. The powers of certain authorities are changing. And so: The Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection ceases to deal with these issues and the competences are transferred to the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection. In this case, it seems very appropriate. I would also like to say that the rules introduced do not affect the use of fertilisers in Poland, because the authorisation is given by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The rotation of fertilisers in our country will take place unchanged. Changes are also being made regarding the use of urea as the European Union reduces ammonia emissions to the atmosphere, which is in line with the direction of its action. Fertilisers are to be coated and no type A urea will be used. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like the High Sejm to adopt the proposed bill adapting Polish legislation to the European Union's rules in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u12	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a typical technical project that we discussed quite quickly at the committee meeting. Of course, it concerns a change in the competence to monitor the use and use of fertilisers. The change is that the powers of monitoring and monitoring in this respect are taken up by the commercial quality inspection and transmitted to plant protection and seed inspection. As far as the assessment of this change is concerned, I judge it very well, because given that we are to follow the EU recommendations, we are taking a step in the right direction. Of course, we focus everything related to food safety in individual inspections. My question, however, is essential: What about the Law and Justice announcement that there will be joint inspections that deal with food safety, and one large inspection will deal with all the things that concern food? That's what we've heard many times. There's a second term, we don't have a project. Of course, it is better to put in order what individual inspections are doing, but the question is deeper: Why do you not dare and implement your electoral promises, the successive electoral promises that said that food safety oversight should be in one hand, in one inspection? And what happened at the committee meeting shows that it would be a step in the right direction. Both the Minister and the Head of the Ministry said that the basis for this change would be among others. that the number of checks on agricultural holdings can be reduced. At the moment, the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection is carrying out about 30,000. checks per year. The commercial quality inspection supervising fertilisers and fertilisers carried out several hundred of these checks per year. They will now be under the responsibility of plant protection and seed inspection. Just a question: Will money flow behind these responsibilities? The Minister at the committee meeting said that the money would be sufficient and the inspection was well stocked, but I dare doubt it. At least from the middle of the year this law will enter into force and these measures will be too small, because these several hundred inspections will have to be carried out by the inspection every year. And the question is, will the inspectors have the resources to do so, or will they simply do so for the same money and within the same existing jobs, which will certainly affect the quality of inspections carried out? Minister of Agriculture! Once again, there's nothing to be afraid of. When you take the minister's office, you have to bravely do what you're supposed to do. We are waiting for the Food Safety Inspection Act, which you announced, where the commercial quality inspection, plant protection inspection, sanitary inspection and veterinary inspection are combined into a single food safety inspection, so that all consumers and producers in Poland know that food safety and food quality are responsible for one inspection, which exchanges information among themselves and which is easy to find if anything is wrong. The responsibility is then in one hand. The ease of exchange of safety information means that the chain that has been announced and referred to many times will be checked, a chain leading from field to table, i.e. all products, both of plant and animal origin, will be checked by one inspection. This information will be in one hand: from how we start to fertilize the plants, and from how we buy the bread, from how we grow the animals to how we buy the meat in the shops. All this should be supervised by an inspection that will have continuous supervision of the food chain. We therefore support, of course, the amendments to this law, but we call on the Civic Coalition (The Bell) to fulfil its electoral promises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u14	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marcin Kulasek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Lewis, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The provisions of the Article shall apply. Regulation 2019/1009 had to be implemented by 16 April 2020. We are already in May, and the bill is only now the subject of the work of the High House. It can be seen that the government has been busy making envelope choices, so it has run out of time to implement EU law. It's a shame because the Members were ready to work. The government proposed to transfer the powers to supervise the marketing of fertilisers, fertilisers marked with the EC-Navy and plant support measures to the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection, PIORiN. To date, these competences have been under the responsibility of the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, the IJHARS. The State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection gets new responsibilities, but they don't get new jobs, new equipment, new financial resources. Everything is supposed to be costless, but we all know that like there are no free lunches, neither is there free control. Even postmen do not want to distribute Sasin's postal packages costlessly, let alone inspectors should carry out checks costlessly. Besides, postmen and plant and seed inspection workers deserve a raise because they simply do not make enough money to match their responsibilities. PIORiN employees not only operate and earn too little, but are also overloaded with tasks. Without additional resources and additional reinforcement, PIORiN will not be able to carry out new tasks. What kind of money are we talking about? The General Plant Protection and Seed Inspector has calculated the costs necessary to carry out the tasks that the government wants to impose on it, and has billed - 4 million PLN per year. Prime Minister! Where are the 4 million PLN for plant protection and seed inspection? Will there be an amendment to your unsustainable budget? Will there be an amendment to this budget? After all, the law, excluding certain articles, shall enter into force on the day following the date of publication. But there's probably not gonna be an amendment to the budget, there's not gonna be four million that the inspection's asking for. So what's it gonna be? Deficiencies of supervision under current competences, i.e. insufficient control of fertilisers, but also insufficient control of plant protection products. The monitoring of the marketing of plant protection products and the use of plant protection products has a direct impact on food safety, consumers and the environment. So you can't let the bolt loosen here. In 2019, the percentage of residues of plant protection products detected in samples of plant material collected by PIORiN increased to 3.5%. In these circumstances, it would be advisable to increase the surveillance of the use of plant protection products. It's now 7,000. checks per year, and there should be even more checks per year. The government is offering us a law that will de facto reduce this number of controls. Why? Because in addition to controlling plant protection products, PIORiN gets control of fertilisers, and yet the range of fertilisers is much larger than plant protection products. Moreover, there are much more outlets for these goods. The PIORIN gets twice as much work and not one more job to do this job. Poland imports 2 million tons of fertilisers per year. The PIORIN is supposed to control this $2 million without even getting a part-time job from the government. How many jobs should there be? The Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector has counted it. Asks the government for 38,5 jobs: 3,5 jobs for itself, 35 - for voivodeship inspections, to provide funds for salaries and to carry out checks, to equip jobs for newly adopted employees, to provide preparatory training before the entry into force of the amendment of the law, for training for newly adopted employees, to whom this task will be entrusted after the entry into force of the amended law - total PLN 4 million. The Left believes that this law is needed, but let us put an end to the practice that the State is doing something cost-effective, that the institution is given new tasks and does not even get a part-time job to carry them out. The new tasks must be followed by money and jobs, otherwise we will never leave the stage of the state of cardboard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u16	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the draft law amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The proposed bill introduces two major changes in the Polish legal system. First, granular urea, excluding granular urea containing a urea inhibitor or a biodegradable coating, will be prohibited from 1 August 2021. This provision aims to reduce ammonia emissions to the atmosphere. Ammonia as gas is not a greenhouse gas, but it is involved in acidifying rains. In addition, fertilisers containing urease inhibitor and biodegradable coating work longer in the soil, which prolongs the availability of nutrients for plants and thus reduces the use costs of fertilisers and the number of treatments performed. Secondly, according to the draft Act of the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, PIORiN will take over from the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles the supervision of the marketing of fertilisers, fertilisers marked with the mark "EC fertilizer." This regulation increases the scope of responsibilities of the PIORiN. The draft amendment states that the transfer of responsibilities to the PIORIN will not entail the transition of workers from one inspection to another. The draft law also provides for the creation of notified bodies which will assess the conformity of European Union fertilising products. The transfer of powers mentioned in the Fertilisation and Fertilisation Act does not raise much doubt. State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection as set out in the tasks added to the Article. Point 5a of the Law on PIORiN can be successfully implemented, provided that it receives appropriate financial support in this respect and that it is possible to prepare for the acquisition and proper execution of the new task. PIORiN employees in the vast majority have agricultural education, which so far requires them to use interdisciplinary agricultural knowledge, including fertiliser and fertilization issues. They also have experience in carrying out control activities, including the placing on the market of plant protection products, seed treated with plant protection products. The claim of cost-free acquisition of competences and tasks is not authorised. The calculation set out in the impact assessment in point 8: change of regulatory burden - presented with the adoption of unknown assumptions. Matter seems more complicated, and the scope and size of the inspection at the level of the calculated 6-percent working time of the inspector difficult to accept. On a micro-scale basis, from the level of the PIORIN voivodeship branch, I draw attention to the current multitasking of this institution, increasing the tasks to be carried out in connection with the entry into force of the new plant health law. I say with full responsibility that the performance of the new tasks entrusted without improving the technical, financial and staffing conditions will not entail the need to limit the tasks which have been carried out so far under the competence. Therefore, the comments made by the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector, and in particular those concerning the increase of employment in the PIORiN to the number of posts already mentioned by the Left, the provision of funds for remuneration, the provision of jobs for newly adopted workers, training prepared before the entry into force of the amendment of the law, training for newly adopted workers, including tasks to be entrusted after the entry into force of the amended law, should be seriously considered. These changes are most important in this project and therefore necessary for the proper implementation of Regulation 2019/1009 of the European Parliament and of the Council. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On these issues we have no objections, which is why the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 supports this amendment. There's only one question. Farmers, fearing cobbling, ask how much more urea will be spent next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u18	Thank you very much, sir. And here you are, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking here about a government bill amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We are basically introducing another law, which is undoubtedly or undoubtedly needed by farmers, food producers. In fact, because the political elites of the Third Republic of Poland renounced their ability to conduct a sovereign economic policy for the Polish state, as well as their impact on agriculture for the bodies of the European Union. Those are the facts. You can swear by the rules that the Union is giving us. Yes, it does, but it also does. You have to remember that. He's giving more than he's taking. This draft law is also mandatory for the Member States of the European Union to implement the law once again invented in Brussels. I am really impressed by this titanic work of EU bureaucrats. They invent problems and then try to solve them. And here in the Polish Parliament, we could actually learn a little from them how to work here. Speaking of which, without irony, we have yet another example of such a legislative diarrhea which has been vaccinated directly from the European Union. The proposed amendment of this law contains a provision that, from 1 August 2021, urea in granular form will not be used and exceptions are urea containing a urea inhibitor or a biodegradable coating. The reduction of ammonia emissions to the atmosphere is to be in line with the European Commission's green order programme. Fertilisers containing inhibitors actually work a little longer and this also prolongs the availability of nutrients for plants. The question comes up automatically: Who wants the Polish farmer to have no choice but to fertilize his plants? Surroundings undermine production, as well as the addition of inhibitors. On the other hand, one can imagine a situation when a producer, here a farmer, wanted to deliver the necessary ingredients in a faster way or for example. in divided doses, and in this situation we do not allow him to do so. If we trust farmers, they can choose the head of state, then why shouldn't we trust them to know what they're supposed to fertilize their plants? I think it's natural. The environment belongs to all of us. Fertilisers containing urease inhibitor or biodegradable coating are really only slightly more effective than those traditional ones, and the amount of ammonia, let's agree, is not something that will shake the entire ecosystem in Poland., I think someone had to come to Brussels for such regulations. Knowledge has a future. Do we already have forecasts of how much the real price of fertilisers will increase for the Polish farmer? There's also a second amendment to this bill. It concerns competence, that we transfer competence from the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection to the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection. Okay, but it's already been said here, and that's what we have to agree that since the powers are being transferred, if we have a situation where there are new tasks, how and who is to do it specifically in this situation. I'm not sure that PIORIN can handle this, although it would be logical to move these tasks to PIORiN. Thank you. [[Applause]] So much talking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u20	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another shift of tasks from one point to another. This may not be the worst solution in this case, but the basic question to you is: How do you want to secure, Minister, sufficient resources for an increased number of checks? Today these measures are in a different organization, and you want to transfer them to the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. Are you planning to increase your spending on this? That's the first question. Second question, Minister. I take this opportunity - you are scrupulously fleeing the subject of drought. Today, drought unfortunately results in a decline in the efficiency of crops grown. I would also ask the Minister to refer to how the Ministry of Agriculture wants to help farmers, how he wants to help the Sadists. Unfortunately, my constituency, Grójec, suffers very much because of the drought. A few days of rain, you're perfectly aware of that, unfortunately it won't help. It'll help.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u22	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection prevents risks related to the marketing and use of plant protection products, and it is therefore appropriate to entrust this agency with the supervision of the marketing of these products. But why didn't you anticipate extra money for this? The transfer of powers in this area will result in a budgetary burden on the institution. Once again, you are creating a law in which you propose to add or transfer competence, and there is no money following it. In addition, the draft amendment provides that most of the provisions will apply on the day following its publication. Why is such a short time limit for the entry into force of these provisions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u24	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u25	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Following the transfer of powers to supervise the placing on the market of fertilisers, fertilisers marked with the EC mark and plant support measures to the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection, new tasks will clearly be imposed on it. Therefore, Minister, first of all, does the government intend to increase the financing of inspections in 2020? Secondly, is it true that employees of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles, i.e. the institution which has so far overseen the market, will be released, i.e. those who have competence, will be released and those new people who will exercise supervision in practice do not have any knowledge of this market? Finally, the deadline for taking over supervision is 1 July this year. It's been less than two months. Minister, what risks did the government diagnose in connection with the unprepared de facto (Ring) takeover by an inspection of the market surveillance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I know what I eat - this is how we could define the needs of consumers of food, which is basically all of us today in Poland. It is important that Poles and Poles know whether the food they consume is of high quality, whether it is safe and whether it is harmful to the environment. I believe that this bill is going in the right direction, but, of course, there is a question about money. Since there are new competences and tasks, I would ask the Minister to resolve his doubts as to whether the powers that have been imposed on the Plant Protection and Seed Inspector are going to lead to new financial resources, to what extent and to what extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u28	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Urbaniak! It's never too late to learn. The environmental impact of artificial fertilisers is enormous and negative. It is worth looking at the research before entering the podium, although I understand that waiting after the Confederation for any knowledge, integrity or honesty is far too much. It's strong. It's not possible. But back to the bill. We are dealing with major organisational changes here. We are talking about taking over the duties and sentences of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles by the PIORiN. There are additional obligations with unchanged funding, unchanged employment or unchanged number of employees. This is a very bad example of the constant practice of this administration, this government. The legislator does not count on the staff of the civil servants' inspectors, imposing on them the burden of additional tasks, freezing their salaries or imposing the cost of the economic crisis on them. Does the legislator provide for additional measures (the Bell) to be directed to inspectors whose task is to ensure our food safety, to comply with the law when it comes to fertilisers used in agriculture that have a negative impact on the environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u30	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The socio-occupational organisations consulted on the draft amendments to the Fertiliser Act have made it very clear that the imposition of these obligations on the PIORiN without additional funding will result in a deterioration of the quality of work. It was also suggested that the institution should withdraw its duties at the time of taking over its duties. However, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has not taken into account what has recently been the standard for the Minister's comments made by the trade unions. Once again, you're applying the patent we've learned about the organisation of the presidential election. If the institution reports the failure to perform the task entrusted, why do you ignore it and expect the results, regardless of the costs involved? And I ask you to provide a thorough analysis of the costs of carrying out the new tasks by PIORiN and to answer the question of when you will provide adequate funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Using the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, I would like to ask you about a very important matter which one of the sadistic portals is reporting today. Namely, we learn that already at the beginning of May the financial envelope from the state budget for the payment for agricultural and livestock insurance was exhausted. Many farmers who wanted to take advantage of the possibility of obtaining insurance payments have been sent back in return. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the effect that the budget for this type of aid has been reduced by PLN 150 million compared to the budget for the previous year? Is the Ministry of Agriculture going to respond, supplement these measures so that all those who want to benefit from such insurance payments can do so? I come from the sad settlements and farmers from my constituency, from my voivodship this issue is very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the impact assessments, the Minister wrote that in 2018 129 control of fertilisers was carried out in 93 entities, while in 2019 147 control of fertilisers was carried out in 98 entities. From this, you conclude that there is no need to increase the funding of this inspection, because if you count on two controllers to control it in 2 days, you get a total of 16 working days. Don't you find it pathetic to give such information that you have absolutely no control over manure and fertilization? If you want to carry out supervision fairly and hand it over to the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection, then the amount of control must increase, supervision must increase and, as a result, Minister, today we demand that you increase the financing of plant protection and seed inspections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u36	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u37	High Izbo! In fact, it would not have occurred to me that so far the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection has not been involved in the marketing of fertilisers designated as EC fertiliser and plant support products. It is only the European Union directive that tells us to do something that seems absolutely logical. I'm glad you did. This, of course, also tells us that such monuments can be more, and the solution is indeed to create one large agency, an inspection that will deal with food products from field to table. But my question is, what kind of work are we even talking about? Because they're four million, 40 employees. How much will this work really be and is it really so simple to transfer employees from one inspection to another, because someone is doing it and someone can do it in the other one, including the government inspection? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u39	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2015, Law and Justice ensured that they would combine all inspections into one. Today, further funds will be spent on the transfer of competences. You can see that there are no plans to merge. I understand you want the State Sanitary Inspection to stay because it's called the PiS. This has to stay. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! He's good. On the other hand, it may be necessary to improve the operation of other inspections, to combine them so that everything works smoothly. Perhaps we should consider speeding up the spending of RDPs. 35% The resources used in the current perspective, the last place in Europe, and you move people, the powers to fire those who don't belong again and hire theirs. The list is here. Short time, you have to act fast. Why is there such a small interest in the ruling option? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If it were not for Mr Urbaniak, there would be only one Member on the government side. You can see the interest. I'm not a ruling option, God forbid. There's an envoy out there. He's from the Confederacy. He's just switched tonight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I was inspired to ask a question by Mr Michał Urbaniak from the Confederation. This statement shows that the Union is evil and only evil, and Poland is losing it. In the case of this law, we really have a global dilemma, not Polish or EU, where there is a contradiction regarding healthy food for the consumer and the production of a farmer who wants to have the best harvest, so this chemistry is used as much as possible. In the United States, for years Roundup has destroyed everything that should not be in the crop, but in the end it has destroyed many people who have suffered serious diseases because of the abuse of this Roundup. I have a question to the representative of the government: Does the Polish government have a different opinion than the one contained in the EU Directive on this issue (the bell) in order to limit or change the way of fertilization in Poland to make it safer and healthier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u42	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jan Białkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to say, I'm surprised. Thank you very much for your deep interest in rural and agricultural matters. I never expected you to be so concerned about the problems of agriculture, about the efficiency of the agricultural sector and the fate of Polish farmers. Among the questions that have been raised here, I have hardly heard any substantive comments concerning the proposed law. I particularly thank Mrs Niedziela for making a very substantive reference to this project, because it is simply a good project. Part of the project's tasks are pure implementation of EU legislation. Date of introduction, i.e. On 16 April, it was laid down in a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. As a pandemic broke out, we had a problem with the Sejm carrying out this project. Therefore, we had a delay and it was necessary to introduce these records immediately after publication. That's where the deadline for entry into force came from. As far as issues related to the effectiveness of the PIORiN function are concerned, these solutions introduce a very logical solution in my opinion, because the placing of supervision on the marketing of fertilisers in IJHARS, i.e. the commercial inspection of agri-food products was unjustified. This inspection mainly deals with food products. Especially when combined with a part of the commercial inspection - this will take place on 1 July 2020 - it will be logical to transfer the tasks related to the marketing evaluation, with the supervision of the marketing of fertilisers to the PIORiN, which is the inspection which currently deals with the supervision of the marketing of chemicals. In my opinion, people working at PIORiN are already perfectly prepared to undertake new tasks. In addition, of course, training activities will be carried out for these workers, so that most of these checks, which will be carried out, will take place at the same points, because the same points are involved in the marketing of fertilisers and the marketing of plant protection products. The effectiveness of controls and the effectiveness of spending money will generally increase. Of course, we'll be monitoring it all the time. If there are financial needs, we will try to respond to emerging problems and shift funds accordingly. When it comes to the introduction of urea, I think that Polish farmers can count perfectly. They will be able to assess whether these changes are beneficial for the use of an inhibitor or coating and thus increase the efficiency of the nutrients that are contained in the fertilizer. They'll judge it best. If they think it's uneconomic, they'll just choose another fertilizer. So I don't think there's a threat for that. As far as fertiliser plants are concerned, they are already prepared for these changes. In addition, the period during which this law will enter into force is long enough for these changes to be prepared. I think those were the main blocks of questions that came up. If I have not answered any of the questions that came from the room, we will answer them in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u44	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery (prints 268 and 354). I ask Mr Caesar Grabarczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a representative of the Infrastructure Commission, I present to the High House a report on the Government draft law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The report is contained in print No 354, the draft law is contained in print No 268. This extremely technical title of the law may be frightening, but the law really concerns the protection of air quality and cleanliness. This is an important project, this is the gleaning of the problems that were revealed during the incident related to the reporting of false data on the quality of exhaust emissions in motor vehicles engines of one of the European companies. Although this bill does not refer to motor vehicles moving on the roads, it also refers to the quality of the exhaust emitted by engines of devices other than those which move on the roads. It is mainly about construction machines, snowmobiles, as well as generators of different power. The Act implements to the Polish legal system the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 on requirements for emission limits for gaseous and particulate pollutants and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery, amending Regulations (EU) No 1024/2012 and (EU) No 167/2013 and amending and repealing Directive 97/68/EC. The law shall indicate the competent authority as regards the approval procedure. The competent authority shall be the Director of Transport Technical Supervision. He's the one issuing the permits, he's also conducting the investigation. The Act defines the supervisory system at the same time. And as I said at the beginning, the environmental inspector is one of the supervisory authorities. Why? That's because it's about testing the quality of the emissions. Other competent authorities in the field of market surveillance are the President of the Higher Mining Authority and the National Tax Administration bodies. The Act sets out the amount of fees and provides for administrative penalties for infringement of the rules set out therein. The question arises as to which vehicles this law does not apply. The catalog of these vehicles is quite extensive, and the regulation we implement contains a twofold description of the types of engines: on the one hand, in a negative way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the other hand, in a positive way. Club reps will be talking about it in a minute. I would like to draw attention to one important thing that we missed in committee work. It seems that in the article. 47 We have wrongly invoked the reference, it should be indicated Article. 46. I think that an amendment will be tabled in the course of today's debate to correct this error. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u46	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Paul, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the Government draft law on EU type-approval systems and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The need for a law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for such machinery is due to the fact that Regulation No 2016/1628 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on emission limits for gaseous and particulate pollutants and approval for internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery entered into force on 6 October 2016. Although Regulation 2016/1628 is binding in its entirety and directly applicable, Member States have been required to appoint or designate the approval authorities and market surveillance authorities in accordance with this Regulation, including the establishment of a technical service under national law and, in connection with decisions issued by the approval authority, to indicate the remedies available to the party under the laws in force in the Member States concerned, also the time limits applicable to remedies. Member States were also required to lay down sanctions for infringements of the Regulation. Currently in force in Poland, the Regulation of the Minister for Economic Affairs of 30 April 2014 on specific requirements for internal combustion engines to reduce the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants by these engines currently governing the issue has been drawn up in accordance with the statutory authorisation provided for in Article. 10 of the Law of 30 August 2002 on a system of conformity assessment, hereinafter referred to as SOZ. The full implementation of Regulation 2016/1628 is not possible under the SOZ Act, as has been the case so far, but requires the adoption of separate legal acts. The need for amendments to the Act is primarily due to the subject matter to be regulated, i.e. the issue of the approval of engines intended for non-road mobile machinery, the establishment of a market surveillance system with regard to compliance with the limits on the permissible exhaust gas level in the above mentioned. engines and penalty system for operators not meeting these requirements. The implementation of these provisions under the SOZ law would result in the creation of two parallel systems within a single legal act, which is not in line with the Polish principles of legislative technique. So far, i.e. Since the entry of Poland into the European Union, the approval authority was the Auto Transport Institute, but this project assumes that the approval authority is entrusted with the function of the Technical Supervision Authority. The UDT acts as a technical oversight unit in accordance with the Law of 21 December 2000 on technical supervision. As an authority with experience and technical supervision expertise, it shall also have properly prepared personnel and equipment necessary to act as an approval authority. With regard to market surveillance. To date, it has been carried out in accordance with the requirements of the SOZ Act, while the above-mentioned proposal envisages the creation of a new, specific market surveillance system for compliance with the requirements of this Regulation. The project foresees that market surveillance would be carried out, inter alia. by the authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspection and the President of the Higher Mining Authority. The draft also provides for sanctions to be imposed on the manufacturer, importer or installer who places on the market and puts into service a non-compliant product. The entry into force of Regulation 2016/1628 will allow for uniform application in all Member States of the European Union. High Izbo! Members of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice welcome the proposal on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The complex draft Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support, I hope, unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u48	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law on EU type-approval systems and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. Regulation 2016/1628 of the European Parliament and of the Council on emission limits for gaseous and particulate pollutants for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery entered into force on 1 January 2017. That Regulation requires Member States to set up or designate bodies carrying out the EU type-approval process and issuing EU type-approvals and to appoint specific market surveillance authorities. In the draft law, the applicant identified as the national approval authority of the Director of the Technical Supervision Authority and as the supervisory authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspection and the President of the Higher Mining Authority. The analysis of the content of the project indicates that the dispositions contained in the Regulation are being implemented and that the competence of the authority chosen to conduct these matters and issue the certificates is sufficient. There are some doubts as to the scope of the Regulation itself, because the range of engines to which this applies, plus exclusion, raises some doubts as to whether this applies to certain types of equipment, but I think this is to be clarified. Dear Minister, After more than 3 years, the dispositions contained in the regulation have been implemented, and although I say this with sadness, without being too mean. Sadly, the comparison of the provisions submitted with the content of the regulation does not indicate any particular complications that could delay this legislative process. This is also confirmed by the exceptional compatibility of the members of the Infrastructure Committee at the last meeting and by the lack of comments from invited stakeholders. In view of the above, there is basically no basis for this project not to reach the High House at least two years ago, and maybe even three years ago. However, as I mentioned, there is no excessive malice in this statement, because from my experience of participating in the legislative process I know of projects for which it lasted much longer and was also long awaited for their implementation. However, I wish the infrastructure department to be able to prepare and introduce this type of technical legislation to the High House in a much shorter period of time in the future. The Civic Coalition Club will support the project submitted. We are making an amendment to correct an obvious error with regard to Article. 47, because this amendment is obvious. At the same time, we apply for a third reading without referring the draft to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u50	Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u51	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have come to proceed on print 268 entitled, as the predecessors have already said: the EU type-approval system law and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. The title would seem to be long and does not contain one essential component, which is included in this Act, namely the system of penalties for non-compliant entities set out in the Regulation of the European Parliament and in the Act submitted. The Act, as the predecessors also said, did not arouse any great sensations, not a bloodstorm in the veins, maybe that's a good thing, but in my opinion it is a good example of how important a regulatory role the European Union plays. We are indeed replicating in a way, implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) in the autumn of 2016 into Polish law. It's a shame it's so late. But it is also worth pointing to a clue, which is linked to this date, namely the issue of approval and counterfeiting of emission-related parameters, was an important context in which both the European Commission and the European Parliament were investigating this. Let us remind you that in autumn 2015 the installation of software to manipulate exhaust emission measurement results from the exhaust system of vehicles moving on the road was revealed. Of course, this is not the direct subject of this law, but it is, as I have already said, an important context that is worth considering, all the more so because the disclosure of this dieselgate, as it was then called, or Volkswagengate, wrongly, in the sense that it involved very many brands, very many car companies and companies all over the world, caused a sharp decrease in the value of these car companies, in extreme cases reaching 1/3. So that the subject of the procedated bill, the procedated project may not be particularly exciting for Polish politicians, but nevertheless important and important for the whole world, not only for the European, but let alone for the Polish economy. The solutions put forward in the government project do not raise objections to the parliamentary club of the New Left. We will also request that you move directly to the third reading. However, it is still worth considering and signaling a change of competence, because until recently or until the implementation of this law, the competent authority for granting approval for engines for non-road mobile machinery was the Institute of Motor Transport. Currently, this task and functions have been delegated to the Director of Transport Technical Supervision. You could say that, you could say that. There are numerous arguments in favour of such a decision. We will see how efficiently these competences will be transferred. It remains to be hoped that there will be no difficulties here, and that the misunderstandings on the line of those who will apply for approval or be subject to supervision will not result in this system of penalties, which I mentioned at the outset, having to be implemented. In times of crisis, it may be worth considering whether this system of penalties is too severe, too severe. But we've decided that we're going to vote in favour of the government's submission by discussing the government's submission to the club. That's all. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u53	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 on the draft law, which was the subject of the Committee on Infrastructure, print No 268 and 354, the draft law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. This is an alignment with Union law on previously adopted regulations and directives. In fact, the position has already been presented by my predecessors, and there are few new things that can be added. This concerns adaptation to EU legislation, but it is also intended to introduce, achieve a positive impact on the environment, environmental protection. The question was why after three years we started working on it. I think that on the one hand it is a concern for the environment, adapting the rules to EU rules, but also in the vault void, so you need to look for this money. This is a good time to impose further penalties and we will enforce this in the interests of the environment. There are many topics that could be raised by the way, because standards are becoming more and more demanding, everyone is concerned about it, but on the other hand there is a problem that needs to be discussed in this room, the problem with the reception of agricultural film, which has already been signalled here many times. As there is no one to take it away from, farmers often unknowingly or consciously arrange it themselves. Unfortunately, it looks like it either goes to landfills or it's burned and this emissions to the environment are much bigger. These are topics we don't lean on, we don't think about, and they're still waiting for a solution. Due to what I said earlier, our club, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, will support this bill. We want these solutions to be adapted to EU legislation and implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u54	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of this law is an opportunity to recall that Poland is no longer an independent country. Recently it was the subject of such controversy, Marshal Sikorski was polite to enter our press conference, discuss with us in the framework of this conference. He showed such a far-reaching misunderstanding of the fact that we're getting orders to follow... Mr President, what are you talking about? ...that, on this occasion, I will allow myself here briefly to highlight and recall this matter. The people who praise us in the Union say that it does not impose anything on us, because we really take it upon ourselves, and that is because our Members participate in the votes in Strasbourg and how they participate, even if they are ruthlessly voted out, it means that we have already voted out in a way. I would like to point out that if this were to be a criterion of independence, then Members of the Nadwiślański Country also drove, they were also Members of the Russian Duma, but no one claims that Poland was an independent country at the time. As two wolves and sheep vote, what's going to be for dinner today, you can also say that they make a decision together, but it's obvious that it's a stretch of logic. So today we have an exact example of how it works. There comes an order from Brussels, we implement it, another thing that after 3.5 years, it's a separate topic why it takes so long for us. This EU regulation does not really change much in our law, competence goes from one office to another, everyone still controls everything, but nobody is responsible for anything. Engine manufacturers have to bear a great deal of costs due to the fact that they have to submit to various bureaucratic rites, which, of course, influences somewhere at the end of this chain on prices in shops and for example. heating bills, because also mining machines are subject to these regulations. Not only does an entrepreneur have to stand in line for a stamp, he has to pay a price for this honor, of course, but additionally if he doesn't see something there, if he gets into some kind of trouble, the officials reserve the right to impose a penalty on him, up to 100,000. zł. On the other hand, what do we have? What is the responsibility of the officials? None. Neither the EU regulation nor our laws provide for any penalties for the wrong decisions of officials. It's called a game to one goal. A situation where the certification body bears no material responsibility for the quality of its certificates means that these certificates are not really worth much. I used to set an example here in the Hammurabi Code. There was a record that if the house collapsed on someone's head, the builder put his head under an axe and it motivated him to build solidly, because he had a particular responsibility. And here's the last time a clerk got $100,000. Evil punishment for wrong approval decision? I haven't heard. History doesn't know these cases. Certificates actually only make sense on the free market when the certification body bears some material responsibility for this. If he abuses his authority recklessly, he will lose authority and customers, and unfortunately authority and customers provide officials with EU laws and regulations, so they can sleep peacefully, no matter how they manage them there. Such a system is confirmed by the regulation and our law, but since changes in some aspects are nevertheless orderly and positive, the Confederation will simply abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u56	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of questions you are asking? If not, I'm closing the list. The first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. 39 (1) (a) 1 The Act states that the financial resources derived from the penalties imposed by the TDT Director will constitute the income of the TDT. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Are you sure this is a good regulation? However, I encourage you to examine it. There's obviously a conflict of interest here, I'd say. If these penalties were to affect the state budget, there would be no temptation to artificially repair the institution's budget. So there is such danger that these penalties can be imposed, I would say, with distorted objectivity. And second question. What caused TDT, rather than ITS, which seems to have competence and appropriate facilities to make such [[♪ The bell ♪]] an institution to stay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u58	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paul Pontylius, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's a good thing we're meeting here because I have a question about other engines. It's the electric motors, Minister. You promised me, I am talking about the interpellation, that by 23 May the government will implement a directive that allows category B drivers to drive up to 4250 kg of commercial vehicles, as is the case in several countries of the European Union. It is strange that until today this directive has not been implemented because it was in 2018. This is strange, all the more so because with the lips of Prime Minister Morawiecki and deputy prime minister Emilewicz, the government has repeatedly stressed the importance of electromobility for the Polish economy, and you are not even able to implement a simple European Union directive which allows holders of a category B licence to drive heavier cars because of the weight of the batteries they have on board. When are you going to clean it up and do you even want to fight for electromobility in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am addressing the Minister with a specific question as a resident of Radom. There's an aeroclub airport under Radom. The regulation we are currently working on, including the enumerative collection, does not mention both glider winches and ratchets. How will the Minister resolve the concerns of the airport managers, but also the slopes, whether they will have to comply with these regulations or are they excluded from them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u63	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With some slippage, we are dealing with the implementation of the European Regulation into the Polish legal system. Although the government presentation does not raise much concern, which was also reflected in the debate in the High House which we are just finishing, but I wanted to ask: How many more European regulations are waiting in line for implementation at the moment? At what stage are work in the department, in the government? Please answer this question also in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u64	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u65	Ah, this horrible European Union is making us make some kind of legislative change again, implement some rules, and we know better. So I have a question: Why have we waited for almost four years to take care of reducing, reducing the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants by the engines mentioned in the Act? Here, in this room there were voices that the defence of the exhaust gas in Poland is almost defending Poland's independence. I understand that this delay was not dictated by the fact - that I am so straggling Kazimierz Przewa-Tetmajer - that: I prefer Polish exhaust gases in the field than violets in Naples. And my second question. The approval authority for engines for non-road mobile machinery has so far been the Motor Transport Institute, and the government now wants to entrust the functions of the national approval authority to the Director of Transport Technical Supervision in this respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why this change, apart from the obvious tendency to complicate everything that can and love bureaucracy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u66	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you. The proposed solutions will certainly affect the activities of entrepreneurs. This Act provides for fees, inter alia. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, 14, 23. The bill itself will enter into force 30 days after its announcement. Is the Ministry therefore considering suspending these charges for the period of the epidemic crisis? Now we have the situation we have, and entrepreneurs will have a very serious problem with paying these fees. I'll ask you to answer the question in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u68	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Taking the opportunity, I wanted to wish you a happy birthday, a lot of happiness, health, well-being. [[Applause]] And now I wanted to ask you two questions. The Act indicates the amount of the approval fee. It is very good that it is clearly defined. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20 is referred to the conditions for refusing or amending the EU type-approval certificate where an EU type-approval certificate for a given type of engine or type of engine has been issued by another Member State of the European Union. My question is: Is the approval fee refundable in such a situation? If so, in whole or in part? Another question. Act in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 indicates: the purpose of field tests is to allow temporary placing on the market of engines which have not been granted EU type-approval in accordance with this Regulation. I ask you to answer the question for which period of field testing procedure such consent is given. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u70	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u71	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about approvals, but I think, Minister, it's time to ask you what's going on with pedestrian priority. On 19 November in this speaker Prime Minister Morawiecki said: It cannot be so that the pedestrian crossing is extremely dangerous for them. We'll introduce priority for pedestrians approaching him. Minister! How long has it been? Only during the first 100 days of this year, more than 100 pedestrians died in road accidents. This shows the extent of the danger, it shows that your delayed actions endanger the life and health of Poles and Poles. Another issue - your position, the government's position towards the parliamentary project, towards the Civic Coalition project. You're suggesting that this project is rejected, that the work is not continued. What, Minister, is the government's position on the priority of pedestrians? [[Applause]] Why do you lie all the time? Why are you misleading me? We're getting old. [[♪ The bell ♪]] society, and you don't care about road safety. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u72	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u73	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping, however, that we would avoid topics other than those related to this bill. Hope dies last, as you say. I'm not dead yet. The project that the Prime Minister was talking about, he's not dead either, he's born... It's born in pain. It's not born in pain. It's born, and it's about to get to the Council of Ministers' Permanent Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what's going on with you. If we follow the fast path without consultation, the summary path, it is wrong, because quickly, because we are not discussing it, because no one can respond, because no one can write comments, and as we walk in God's way, as is the legislative procedure related to the government project, which requires much more time and work, it is also wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it. Coherence is needed here. You are the last person to speak of pedestrian priority in the context of unsuccessful legislative procedures just before the two term of office. You may be the author, and if you're not, he remembers a project that died at the last minute, which was withdrawn by the Senators of the Civic Platform. I'm sorry, but I've never been a senator. Very little was needed for this project to enter into force and this matter was dealt with. I am counting on your determination, I am counting on your presence at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, which will soon be dealing with this project, a draft by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on priority for pedestrians. I keep saying that, in addition to these legislative changes, we are still working on two other very important components that will strengthen security. Not just pedestrians, but in traffic at all. I am talking about investments in infrastructure and I am talking about actions promoting awareness of both vehicle drivers and pedestrians. Because once again I repeat that these two factors depend on our safety: our proper conduct and behaviour on the road and drivers and pedestrians. On the other hand, I am returning to the subject of this discussion, for which I am very hot - I am telling you this honestly - thank you. I thank you for this discussion in this plenary room, at second reading, but also for yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you for the positive opinions on the changes we propose regarding the approval bodies for engines mounted on mobile vehicles but not moving on the road. There is no representative of the Confederation - although there is, but there, behind the glass he talks on the phone - I calm him down. I also reassure those of you who have said that we do not implement this regulation in time. If this regulation did not have to be implemented in the Polish legal system, it would not be necessary, because as some of you rightly noted, in 2004 the body was selected - the director of the Auto Transport Institute - to issue such a certificate of approval. It's been going on for years. At the moment, we are amending this authority to bring this matter into line, because under other legal provisions, the body which issues certificates for engines for working on road vehicles - and such approval certificates are issued by far more - is the Director of Transport Technical Supervision. We also want to join his competence to issue certifications for those engines that are mounted in non-road vehicles and equipment. So that it is a convergence of competences that will be in the hands of the Transport Technical Supervision, which is on the side and the financial, and organizational, prepared for this role. So that nothing bad has happened here in recent months, in recent years, especially since between 2004 and 2020. The Institute of Automobile Transport has issued literally dozens of such approval certificates. So that the scale of the topic that we are discussing now, and the problem that we are solving, is really small, is really marginal. But thank you very much for all the substantive comments, also for this amendment, which is actually a erase of such a Czech error. Of course, it's an appeal instead of an article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 shall be provided in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. This mistake is evident, of course, and thank you very much for being caught by your fellow Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If your marshal will allow me, I will also answer other questions within a minute, those questions that have been raised in particular by opposition representatives. You are asking what has been going on over the last few years why this regulation has not been implemented. That's what I was talking about: there was an organ that was working on it, which could do the job. Secondly, we took over this project from another ministry. The original idea was different, but since we took over this project as the Ministry of Infrastructure, this bill has been completely remodeled, the contribution we received has been thoroughly remodeled. A different body was first and foremost designated. In the first draft of another Ministry such an authority was to be UDT, while the issuing authority was TDT. And that came out of your mouth, too. One of your fellow Members asked why the penalties are affecting Transport Technical Supervision. That's another inconsistency. If there is a rule of law that says that penalties affect the state budget, there is at once a charge against the authorities that we want to patch the state budget with these penalties, that they are supposed to help in financial difficulties, and that they are to be the power of the state budget, which brings the deficit to an end. If it's in the hands of an institution, it's wrong. Minister, I've extended you for almost two minutes so that you can go to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Ladies and gentlemen! In our interest, it is in the national interest for Transport Technical Supervision to exist. Please see - and this is also the answer to the question whether Mr Sosnierz raised - what is happening with regard to the Czech Republic, which entity is there, which is currently performing its duties, the very broad responsibilities which lie under the responsibility of Transport Technical Supervision. If I may ask you this homework, please take an interest in what is happening in the Czech Republic at the moment and who is responsible for this strategic issue of security, the plot. I'm finishing up, Marshal... Exactly, because it's a very significant extension. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...thank you for the extra time. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the substantive discussion, wishing that such discussions in our parliamentary and committee reality be as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u74	Thank you very much. So... Sorry, Mr Szczerba's correction procedure. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u75	Dear Marshal! In 2015, Minister Weber was not a Member, so he cannot know that it was the Law and Justice Club that voted in full against the Parliamentary Group's proposal. Road Safety on pedestrian priority. [[Applause]] This is the first case, Minister. It's good to keep that in mind. The second issue concerns your declaration. If the statement by Prime Minister Morawiecki on the primacy of pedestrians fell from this place on 19 November, then what did you, Minister, do in December, January, February, March and April? Why was the article or legal provision you are presenting, which is actually made up of several articles, the subject of work for nearly six months? Pets die every day on the roads. Only on February 1, one day, this year on the roads, eight pedestrians died on pedestrian crossings. This is your remorse... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. ...your inability and your lateness in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u76	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u77	Thank you, Marshal, just a few seconds. In 2015, we were still in a minority, so that we had no real possibility of blocking any project. It was your fellow Senators who did this, and it is up to you, sir, to stand up. And secondly, our project will contain more safety-enhancing elements, reduce speed at night, standardize it to the speed we deal with between hours. 6 a.m. 23. It will also contain a provision that will be linked to the retention of a driving licence for speeding more than 50 km in an unbuilt area. You will admit that the changes are much bigger than the ones envisaged by the Platform. First of all, we will make these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u78	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I don't hear... Objection. The vote will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws (prints Nos 64 and 257). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, print No 257, on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws, print No 64. On 12 December 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the first reading. The Commission decided on 8 January that the project would be sent to the subcommittee for detailed consideration. A subcommittee meeting took place on 21 January. The report on the work of the subcommittee was presented at a joint committee meeting on 13 February. Amendments were tabled at this committee meeting. The first amendment was tabled on behalf of the Civic Coalition by Małgorzata Chmiel. This amendment referred to Article. 1 amendment 3 and concerned the deprivation of the Minister's competence to participate in the preparation of the voivodship strategy, in particular to coordinate the preparation of this strategy. The amendment was rejected by the committees. Another amendment was tabled by the President, Mr Ławniczak, on behalf of the Law and Justice. It referred to an article. 1 amendment 7, excluding a programme contract, a sectoral contract and a territorial agreement from being subject to a strategic environmental impact assessment in accordance with Article. 46 Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The amendment was voted on together with Amendment 4 which was also proposed by the Law and Justice and presented by the President. These amendments were accepted. Another amendment was proposed by Małgorzata Chmiel. In the amendment which referred to the article. 1 amendment of the 32nd amendment, the Member objected to the Minister's plenipotence for the preparation of a programme contract, i.e. a contract to determine the scope of the RPO for each voivodeship. The amendment was rejected by the committees. The next amendment was tabled by Mr Łavniczak. This amendment referred to Article. 5 of the Act and consisted of excluding the strategy for agriculture and rural development as a document with which there should be a coherent strategy for the development of the voivodship. The amendment was accepted by the committees. Another amendment referred to Article. 8 Amendments 4. It was presented by Anna Paluch, representing the Club of Law and Justice, and it consisted in adding a new condition, i.e. a social diagnosis, in Article. The 10th Spatial Planning and Development Act for the preparation of the municipality's development strategy. To the article. 8 Amendments 7. Another amendment was tabled by Mrs Margaret Chmiel, representing the Civic Coalition. There was a proposal to delete this change. There was a rather turbulent discussion here. The amendment was not supported by committees. Further amendments have been tabled by your President. These were blocked amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 on which the committees agreed. The subject of these amendments was to increase the coherence of the strategic document system and to remove doubts as to the obligation of the Government's representative to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment by the Central Communication Port. The draft was adopted by 27 votes, four abstentions, no vote against. Therefore, I ask the High House to accept, support the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u80	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u81	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and certain other laws in print Nos 64 and 257. In 2018 work was finalised on the Polish development management system, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October of the same year. The initial reconstruction of the development management system is a consequence of the adoption by the Government of the United Right on 14 February 2017 of a strategy for responsible development by 2020 (with a view to 2030). Detailed solutions in the draft law were developed, as Mr Grzegorz Puda said at the committee meeting, during work with the social and local authorities and local authorities. The Minister's wish was also fulfilled, and the project did not cause much emotion. Limited to strict discussion material. 34 articles of the draft law relate mainly to amendments to the Act of 6 December 2006 on the principles of development policy adopted by the V Sejm but also to 20 other laws. The main objective of the Act is to organise and strengthen Poland's development planning and management strategies at national, regional and local level. The Act will introduce a coherent and orderly strategic planning system, and will increase the effectiveness of the programming and implementation of government policies, policies and programmes. With the adoption of the law, we will strengthen the management of the country's development. The new regulations will introduce solutions for integrating the socio-economic and spatial dimension into strategic documents. At national level, the country's long-term development strategy and land-use concept are moving away. The main strategy document will now be a medium-term strategy for the development of the country, combining social, economic and spatial aspects. At regional level, it will be important to create a strategy for the development of the voivodship and give it a leading role in planning development activities. At local level, a local development strategy and a trans-local development strategy are introduced. It is important to focus strategy papers and sectoral instruments on areas where specific support is needed, so-called. areas of strategic intervention. A new approach to agreeing development activities with local authorities is envisaged: programme contract, sector contract and territorial agreement. Contracts may be concluded between the government party and the local government party. Territorial agreements are aimed primarily at agreeing on actions relevant to local communities: municipalities, several municipalities and the district. For this reason, it is a law expected by local governments. In conclusion, I must refer to the draft law from the perspective of a long-term self-governmentman. This document offers opportunities for sustainable development and, as a rule, forces the local government to work together to develop a strategy. That's what I've missed so far. I would like to add that in the district of Łukow and the neighbouring counties of Lublin Voivodeship work on strategies has already been initiated. Self-governments want to work together. They see this as an opportunity for common development. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u82	Thank you very much. Hello, by the way. Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u83	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the European Coalition Club, the Civic Coalition, I apologize, but we will naturally talk about European matters to a large extent, present a position towards the draft law on amending the law on the rules of development policy and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Referring to President Andrzej Duda's words about an imaginary community, if we considered that to be a fact, our debate would be pointless. However, it should be recalled that 77.45% on 7 and 8 June 2003 The Poles were in favour of Poland's accession to the European Union and attendance was 58,85% at the time. I will remind you of the President, who should refer to the fact that the turnout in the 2015 presidential election was 51,55%, i.e. The president's score was 51.55%. and attendance in the second round was slightly over 55%. Therefore, it should be remembered that the European Union is not an imaginary community, but it is an important element in creating socio-economic development in Poland, starting on 1 May 2004. Thanks to European intervention, we can implement a number of important civilization projects, which are also implemented in accordance with the law that we are working on today. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft submitted was discussed both by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and by the Committee on Infrastructure. There was also a subcommittee in which we debated on this subject. The Act is also extremely important from the point of view of the work on a new perspective of cohesion policy 2021.2027, which will be the basis for the implementation of further operational programmes both horizontal and national. On the other hand, the basis for creating the whole philosophy of development policy as well as the operationalisation of this cohesion policy in the field of strategic planning is, of course, this law. The Act introduces a number of important, important changes, but it should be remembered that the Voivodeship Government was created in accordance with the Act of 5 June 1998. At that time for the first time local self-government communities at the voivodship level prepared the first strategies for the development of voivodships. It was a very difficult process, because there was neither statistical continuity nor some basis, as it is today, but the local governments as an important actor of the game for development prepared such strategies. Also within this perspective, the work continues, the local governments of voivodships update current strategies, but also in accordance with the provisions of the law, which we are proceeding on, which is not yet the law. Substantial changes, which are absolutely to be mentioned, relate primarily to the creation of a programme contract, a sectoral contract or a territorial agreement. It is important to be aware that the implementation of cohesion policy at national level, i.e. on an inter-regional level, is the responsibility of the government and the government by means of a programme contract will sign a kind of agreement setting out the directions and conditions for funding regional programmes, and I hope that the two-fund programmes will be implemented at the level of 16 Polish voivodships. The sector contract in turn is important in that it will allow certain projects to be carried out on a territorial level, whether in one area or in several voivodships, but with a certain minister, for example infrastructure. This is also an important change. So far everything has taken place within the framework of a territorial contract, a contract which was a kind of wish concert. The investments recorded there were not always materialized in a certain horizon of time, but of course this gave a legal formula for entering many projects important from the point of view of both the local authorities and the government. Finally, the last major change I want to talk about is that there is a great deal of change concerning (the bell) the establishment of a territorial agreement. This is another important element enabling cooperation between local communities at the primary municipal or district level. We all know that the local government was founded on 8 March 1990, the local government - 5 June 1998, and this is an important formula for building relations between the government and local government units or the local government and local government units so that important projects that do not exist within the administrative boundaries of one unit... Mr... Completing. Great. ...the local government at the primary level or the county to be implemented through this territorial agreement. Thank you very much to the Minister and his colleagues for a very substantive, competent debate, discussion, for including our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u84	And I thank you very much, Mr President. A minute longer, but we like you, and that's what we did. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Wiesław Buż, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This law regulates terminology issues in a number of legal acts and adapts them to the current sustainable development strategy, with the elimination of an earlier approach to the creation of development based on polarisation and diffusion models, in other words, interpenetrating and affected, which has already been sanctioned in the Responsible Development Strategy, as well as in the 2030 National Regional Development Strategy. At this point it is worth pointing out that if it is understandable and justified to seek to stop marginalisation processes, degradation through e.g. depopulation, unemployment, lack of investment, which concerns small municipalities and medium-sized cities, but it is important to continue supporting large cities, not just metropolitan areas. There are many cities in Poland that are not yet metropolises, although they cooperate with metropolises and are equivalent partners. It is about increasing their functional areas, which will undoubtedly help to maintain not only the current growth rate, but also their positive impact on the whole regions of which they are the core. This is also underlined in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, indicating as a positive experience the implementation of an instrument of integrated territorial investment and built up in the framework of their implementation the potential for cooperation going beyond the administrative division of local government units. I am afraid that this project in many areas of particular co-functionality or correlation with areas of the national regional development strategy, which is developed by the Minister responsible for regional development in consultation with local government units and social and economic partners for a period not exceeding the duration of the country's medium-term development strategy, may be - I would stress - may be - owned and dominated by a government party. The scope of the municipality's development strategy set out in Article shall be negatively assessed. 2 draft law on the added article. 10e paragraph. 3 point 4 of the Municipal Government Act, which concerns the obligation to define a functional-space structure model in the strategy, the scope of the strategy will coincide with the scope of the study. The duplication of documents may give rise to difficulties in their application. The lack of an obligation to draw up a municipal strategy is negative. There is no justification for the functionality of the developed municipality strategy. The draft law notes symptoms of centralisation of spatial policy activities and the transfer of the centre of gravity from municipal documents to the voivodship level. This opinion is based on the attached position of the Association of Polish Urbanists, the Association of Polish Cities and the Union of Polish Metropolises concerning the draft amendment of the Act and other laws in the version of 29 May 2019. A few sentences of a different nature about design, a temporary nature. This bill is very late. The strategy for responsible development was announced in 2016, and it is already 2020. How many investments could not start due to these delays? 2020 is also important in terms of implementation of the indicators "Strategy for Responsible Development." It is known that some of them, like the level of investment, will not be achieved. Investments were to be at 20% GDP and dropped below 20%. There are also not many projects announced, such as: The project "Luxtorpeda', the project "Batory', the project for a million electric cars. How long does the government want to prepare legislation for a strategy that needs to be settled? This is a project late. I hope that at least part of the investment projects will be made up and we will use the necessary EU funds. We will therefore opt for the project. I'm filing one amendment, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u86	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15, Coalition Poland, of course. Welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u87	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! Dear Representatives of the Government! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL - Kukiz15, I have the honour to present a position on the government draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws, print Nos 64 and 257. One of the main objectives of this project is the introduction of a system for managing the country's development through integrated socio-economic and spatial planning. This in turn forces the need for changes in this system to adapt Poland to new development challenges, to develop the conditions for programming and carrying out development policy, and to rebuild the system of strategic documents according to these actions. These changes will be implemented in two stages, as you know, and most importantly, in the first stage of the basic document, the medium-term strategy for 15 years, not for 30 years, will be the country's development strategy. This situation will make it possible to miss out on the long-term development strategy of the country, i.e. strategic planning, and spatial development concept. What does that mean in practice? It means that there may be a waiver of the obligation to prepare voivodship spatial planning. Yes, the bill is organizing, as my colleague, the previous speaker, said, terminology issues, but at the same time it means moving away from the current polarisation and diffusion model in the management system. Undoubtedly, it is a worrying issue to reduce the importance of metropolitan areas and large cities, which has also just become clear here. Reducing worrying socio-economic and spatial phenomena only to small and medium-sized cities will shift past experience, potential and pace of development of larger ones, which can globally affect the overall development of regions. Of course, interest and strategic development are important, but they must be based on mutual penetration and coherence. It's understandable, of course. In order to ensure continuity and consistency in the implementation of the planned actions, it is necessary to consider the mandatory implementation of the development strategy of municipalities and unconditionally take advantage of the existing, rich experience of local authorities, e.g. Voivodship, related to application, clearing, running EU projects. Reinforcing the competences of the Minister of Development only on the basis of these experiences will guarantee that cooperation with local governments will ensure consistent and consistent implementation of development strategies and will not contribute to their smoothness towards government investment plans. All local authorities are important and we deserve sustainable development and respect for all the potential of all local levels. The risk of misanalyzing, forecasting and diagnosing development policy could weaken these potentials even more strongly. Only reliable data developed with the local government will allow the preparation of responsible strategic documents. We are afraid that replacing the chapter: urban public policy may suggest that the territorial competence of urban policy can be attributed to the government side. Let us remember that effective and sustainable development of rural and urban areas, municipalities, powiats and voivodships must result in responsible development strategies, which must be established in dialogue, after consultation, in cooperation and in respect of local experiences of local authorities. In a time of pandemic and long-term economic impact, which are and will be the result of Coronavirus, sustainable development, the proper use and allocation of EU funds, without partitioning into Poland A and B, is the most important goal for all of us, should be the most important goal for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u88	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u89	God bless you! Welcome. Mr. Marshal! The High Izbo Act! From detail to general. In order not to forget, I want to tell you what my favorite point in this bill is. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 12 in point 2 you wrote the country: The subject of the draft development strategy shall carry out a prior evaluation of the relevance, expected effectiveness and effectiveness of the implementation of the development strategy - before its adoption. From Polish to ours it would be that whoever writes, before voting, checks whether he wrote something completely meaningless. In human language such meaning is given to this subpoint, and it is merely an article. 1 of this bill, which is swarming, ladies and gentlemen, from such redundances, butter butters and the statement of obvious obviousness, i.e. that what is not forbidden is allowed. Each Pole responsible for himself as an individual and responsible for the Polish matter in the public dimension has such a good right and even a patriotic, moral duty to look at the end before the work begins. But does this require a special bill? Isn't an ancient Latin maxim sufficient, which recommends that every reasonable man? So what is the point of writing down dozens of pages and then 200 pages in the justification of this law? You're trying to push your own bureaucracy and your own rules of the state bureaucratic to what the Eurokolchoz dictates to you. You are trying to create such clutches between Eurocolchoza strategies and strategies, which on different floors in the Republic of Poland you recommend that they be developed. Again, it is important to stress: What is the purpose of this recommendation? Why? We have in Poland, I think, nearly 2,5 thousand. municipalities. How Polish long and broad strategies will be written. Some municipalities will enter into a trans-local agreement with other municipalities and will create a new strategy. This strategy will then be raised to the level of voivodship, region, Council of Ministers. Joyful works, ladies and gentlemen, joyful works. And all this just to hook up to some cock, some trough or a bigger trough that's already in the Eurocircle. That's the bad news. You're getting ready, you're training for the Olympics, and the competition you specialize in is about to be withdrawn. It was in a time of fighting against a suspected pandemic that, in fact, the crisis created by governments themselves, but on the pretext of fighting a sensitive virus, the Eurokolchoz reveals its complete failure. This collapse, yes, can be stopped and this neo-Soviet construction can somehow be renovated there, but only at the price of progressing murder. And you seem to be so softly implementing, among others. through these laws. Because... I say: softly this murderism, because of course it will not hurt anyone, that the swarms of small scholars will lean over these strategies on all floors and on the top, centrally, someone obliged by this law will finally check as the article commands. 2 point 12 (2) whether this is all pointless by chance. Ladies and gentlemen! What's a camel? The camel is a horse designed by the committee, so where the individual responsibility disappears, the personal responsibility, where we do not know who is actually responsible for what, because everyone is responsible for everything, i.e. nobody is responsible for anything. This is a project of the Republic of Poland, which at best will be some miserable, not (the bell) noble creature, which would refer to the best traditions of history. Marshal, one more example of long-term strategies. Just short. In Paris, at the end of the 19th century, there was a gentleman who calculated how much horse dung was coming in due to the growth of Parisian carriages. I hope this is still parliamentary vocabulary. So he calculated for how many years in the perspective of these so-called shitholes will reach the second floor of the Parisian tenement houses. He presented an alarming forecast and even proposed some solutions to this civilization crisis he had announced. And then what happened? Mr President, we're done here. That's when the car was invented. A car was invented, which no official was able to plan in advance. So, ladies and gentlemen, free the country... Mr... ...under this burden, the hump of bureaucracy, which you place on the shoulders of all our compatriots. The Confederation cannot support such joyful, bureaucratic work. Dear Member... We're gonna have to hold off voting on this project. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u90	Thank you very much for this declaration. Before you free the country, unfortunately, I must free the speaker from you. Ha, ha, ha! I invite Mr Paul Pontylius, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Let's start with the questions, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u91	Thank you, Marshal. There you go. Minister! I wanted to get back to the case. You're the minister of development, and I see on the example of an institution in Paris that this is the ministry of dedevelopment. I wanted to ask you what happened, that on the one hand the WPHI facility in Paris, in the 16th district, very exclusive, where the Polish trade agency has traditionally been, has been empty for so many months, and on the other hand the state rents space in another place in Paris? Why can't you use a place that is traditionally recognized as a place connected with trade, trade with Poland? I also say this on the canvas of what Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Emilewicz, spoke so loudly about. In February, when President Macron arrived, there was supposed to be a breakthrough, a new opening, and this new opening is closing. Not only did you take out WPHI, you did a pseudoreform of PAIiIZ. And that shows today that you're giving away money. Question: How much does it cost for the Polish government, a Polish taxpayer to pay for an empty building in an exclusive district in Paris, which always belonged to the Polish sales office? Thanks.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u92	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There isn't, there isn't. Mr Caesar Grabarczyk is not here. Therefore, I invite Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u93	Thank you, Marshal. To the confederate for starters. There's a beautiful Latin operative: pecunia non olet. In this case, it is worth reminding you of this sequence, because the European money that you also use when driving on the roads, driving by rail, is real money that flows into our country. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to address the rapporteur from my beloved Radom. I don't understand one thing. On the one hand, the state, the president you support in the elections, but also the government in some way leads to polexit. You are leading to discrediting the European Union in Poland. You believe that compliance with the common rules of the rule of law does not affect financial resources in any way. On the other hand, in this act you will inform that you will be taking money from the European Union. How do you explain this to the Poles? And a specific question for the Member. In Radom, we used the European Union's resources [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of investments such as the southern ring road, the tenement of Deskurów. On the other hand, you are still saying that the European Union is evil. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Braun, I am speaking to Mr Braun, as corrected. 10 seconds and I'm turning your mic off, okay? Don't go crazy, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u95	Andrzej Count Zamoyski in the 19th century: take, do not pay, Mr Zamoyski. Ha, ha, ha! Sure thing, if the Rzeczpospolita can do some good, bravo, but let's not add crazy theories... Okay, thank you very much. ...a kind of sustainable or responsible development. Take it, don't pay for it. Where's the corrigendum?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u96	Thank you, sir, for the good advice: take it, don't give it. Some will apply, others will not. I cordially invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The development between regions varies, but there are also large differences within regions. I want to draw attention to Lower Silesia. Lower Silesia, which achieves very high average indicators, is diverse because there is a large discrepancy between the rich north And a much poorer south. Subregions such as Jelenia Górski or Wałbrzych differ significantly from the average of Lower Silesia. Please tell me whether this law gives the Ministry and the Government the tools to eliminate such differences, because our sub-regions will be very badly affected if they have access to EU funds. I'm asking for a specific answer, because it's very disturbing for people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course you can write anything, paper is patient, will accept everything, while, Minister, I have a question about specific programs, specific impulses that will help regions such as the southern region of the Silesian Voivodeship. Podbeskid, Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyzna, pszczyńska land - these are regions that lie next to an extremely strong center, which is Silesia, Silesia agglomeration, which causes that all that is around, simply experiences capital sucking out, people sucking out. Therefore, there are very negative trends. And given this fact, I have a question: Why does the Ministry, first of all, not use any mechanisms to support those regions that are subject to these negative trends on the part of the neighbourhood? Secondly, the Ministry provides for support instruments in the future so that they actually serve the economic development of these regions as well, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are not the capitals of the voivodships? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u100	Is Mr Szczerba in the Chamber? In the left-wing benches for now. Come on in, Michael, I'll send it. He was in the benches of the Left. We always praise the wise.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are talking about the principles of development policy, but you cannot, Minister, talk about development when the government consistently inhibits this development of cities. I'm talking about m.st. Warsaw, I am talking about the fact that the so-called. the principle of janosic deposit. This year's M.S. Warsaw must pay 1,200 million, and in the following years this amount of Janosik will increase. This situation does not ensure what you expect under this medium-term development policy. This situation also requires you to declare that the government will undertake work on the change with regard to Janosik. On this issue recently, the Council of the M.S. Warsaw has adopted an appropriate resolution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We would like the Ministry of Development to respond to this resolution with a specific project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u102	We'll see if we can. Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns strategies, strategy plans, which may be created by municipalities, but also super-gminne compounds, i.e. powiats, municipalities. Do you foresee the possibility of financial support for these entities when it comes to developing such a strategy? As far as the municipalities are concerned, some of them have them. Of course, they are optional, non-binding. Will it be possible to support from the Ministry in the event of such a trans-local strategy? And second question. The year 2019 was the year in which many Seyms had already adopted resolutions on the strategy for the years 2027 and 2030. After the entry into force of this law, can you confirm that there will be no need to change these strategies, i.e. to develop changes in relation to this law that will enter into force?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I cordially invite the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three short questions for the Minister. First of all, is the Industrial Development Agency, which is to carry out the tasks of this law, operationally prepared to conduct capital entrances? That's the first question. Second: How the projectors intend to control the implementation of restructuring support envisaged in the form of so-called. Capital entrances? It's about holding shares, bonds, shares, raising share capital. The third question concerns self-government. In many cases, rescuing companies will have a significant impact on the functioning of the local government for which they operate. Does the government see these consequences, and does it intend to compensate local governments for their loss of income tax? In the face of the crisis, do you realize that many local governments will find themselves in a difficult situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u106	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question about why there are no mandatory municipal strategies. We know that such strategies are very important documents for local communities, especially when they are created not by an external company, but with the participation of local communities, when both officials and social partners co-create such strategies. I know that these strategies work well because I co-created such a strategy in Slupsk when Robert Biedron was president. We then invited about 100 social, business and official actors to participate, and this strategy was developed by the local community. If we are talking about development policy and, in particular, sustainable development, this development policy must take into account all levels of development, all levels of self-government. Please answer me (the bell), why it is not mandatory. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u108	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Wieczork, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question arises as to why today, in 2020, we are discussing this document, a document that is very needed for the interests of local authorities and for the use of funds from the European Union. What happens to the Polish government that there are such delays when it comes to legislative work? After all, this document should appear immediately at the moment when the famous plan was announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki, the strategy for responsible development, because then these instruments were very needed. Therefore, my question is: At what stage of implementation is the strategy for responsible development? Does the government provide information on this matter? Secondly, issues relating to municipal strategies. The question is: Why is there no obligation and possibly a refund? After all, the municipality starts building the strategy of Poland. And the third thing. Why did the record appear, I would ask you to explain that the strategy of the voivodship (the bell) has to be agreed with the joint committee of government and local government, which is rather to work on legislation rather than to establish strategies of the voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u110	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I regret that Mr Braun is not here because it is exactly the opposite of the words which he was kind to say. The fact that we plan strategically for social and economic and spatial development... Don't be sorry, he'll come. Yeah, that's right. ...is extremely important from the point of view of public governance and from the point of view of public money investment. And I am very pleased that we are in the European Community and that together we can create this development among the 27 Member States of the European Union. Minister, the fundamental question. Whether this time in which we are today, 2020, more precisely, May 2020, will enable the preparation of strategic documents at the regional level, as well as at the level of local communities or municipalities, which will allow the conclusion of certain contracts in order to be programmed in such a way, of course [[♪ The bell ♪]] regional development, so that these local authorities can put their visions of development into this and make the right use of these measures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u112	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Why is it really necessary to delete voivodship spatial planning plans? Some time ago we heard from high-ranking Law and Justice politicians that delays result from the fact that there are no such plans. Today it is more important for strategies, national, regional, local strategies, but there is often a wish concert there. You type in a lot of things that aren't realized later. The marshals are changing, the boards are changing, and these strategies are still changing. We have recently heard in the voivodship that the voivodship cannot be green, because politically it can be wrong for the rulers to associate, so it changes. There are various things in this strategy that are unfortunately not being implemented later. So perhaps it would be better to focus on making better use of external resources than making further changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u114	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Urszula Nowogórska from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. Referring to the amended Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c of the Regional Government Act - please explain to me what lies under the concept of an investment area of public purpose of national and voivodship importance and whether there will be a place for important strategic municipal and district investments. Why is it unclear that the local government is involved in the work of the Partnership Agreement Committee? Will this affect the role of local government in the work of this committee? Is it appropriate for the Minister of Development to influence the development strategy of the voivodships? Local governments know exactly what to do, how to do, what is important to them, and what they need. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u116	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Karolina Pavlichak from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this Act, we read: at local level, a local development strategy and a local development strategy are introduced as non-obligatory documents. In both cases, these documents combine the social, economic and spatial spheres. The proposed law also proposes a new approach to agreeing development activities with local governments - programme contract, sector contract and territorial agreement. We know that self-government today is one of the most important values of the functioning of the state. When many institutions fail and even the Sejm, as it turns out, they do not always meet their hopes, the local government is constantly guarding local communities and our small homelands. So is it in the intention of this project to manually control the development of the commune, district or voivodeship, imposing and centralizing the strategy in advance, or will these documents arise through municipal or urban consultations? Please answer the bell.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u118	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, late from the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not late, I've been here the whole time, only Cezary Grabarczyk was read - that's by the way. I am a watchful Member all the time. So do we. There are different ways of developing strategies, please, but each of them must take into account, above all, what is happening in the world today, what is the international economy. On the other hand, we must also have short-term goals, what we intend to do in the short term. What I miss very much today is interregional cooperation. Cooperation between powiats and municipalities should also be developed to a much greater extent. All these strategies must be mindful of the sustainability of our country. I believe that today we should also work on strategies for poorer regions. Some poorer regions, counties or municipalities will find it very difficult to find themselves in the modern world. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's trust the local government. You can really learn a lot from self-government. They did a gigantic job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u120	Mr President, I must apologize to you. You're right. You're welcome. I accept your apology. It is simply Mr Grabarczyk I dreamt of at night and it spilled out in the Parliament hall. I'm so sorry. Mr. Marshal, I accept your apology. It's okay. I invite Mr Przemysław Koperski from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the proposed Article. 3a point 4b of the amended Act on the principles of development policy is intended to complement the tasks of the Minister responsible for regional development with the possibility to issue recommendations on the preparation of a draft strategy for the development of voivodship, trans-local development and municipalities and projects of other strategies. What is the power of these recommendations - whether they must or may be taken into account by the JST - can have a key impact on the shape of local strategies. The example of high-speed railways in preliminary assumptions that cut through housing estates in municipalities shows the scale of the threats, Minister. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that, according to the intention, the recommendations are to provide assistance and guidance, but the concepts of "aid' and "tips' are in favour of non-binding character. However, it should be borne in mind that the justification for the bill does not have the effect of a legal act. Therefore, please specify this provision by adding the non-binding wording of the recommendation. This is what the (Ringing) parliamentary club of the Left brings. The question to the Minister: Will the Minister support this solution? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u122	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. That's where we're gonna end up with a wave of fantastic questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u123	Thank you very much to the marshal for letting me speak. In the context of the discussion on development policy, I have a question for the government about preparing another financial perspective, discussing cohesion policy and dividing it into voivodships. The previous financial perspective, i.e. covering the years 2013 and 2020, indicated a higher share of the allocation of resources for the various voivodships compared to the previous one. In implementing such a solution, can you answer how many measures may be available and will this participation of the voivodships in the decisions be increased compared to the current one? Let me remind you that we had a rolling participation of voivodships in these decisions - 20%, 40%. So can you increase - and to what extent - the decision making of voivodships in the next financial perspective? Question [[♪ The bell ♪]] General: How many of these measures will there be? More? Less? It's about the amount. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, for all the damage, for all the PRL - 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u124	Mr President, I am reluctant to do this because you received 1.5 minutes more in your speech. I got a minute and a half for the whole PRL. No. Sir, thank you for the great... Mr. Marshal... But can you listen? Thank you for your brilliance, your references to history. 30 seconds. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u125	Give me all those nice words in writing, Marshal. I just wanted to point out that on our Podkarpacie - here I look towards Mrs Skowrońska - half a thousand years ago there was a time, such a historical moment, that as mushrooms after rain grew estates, houses, manor houses, palaces and castles also over time. There were no cohesion programmes at the time. If there were sustainable development programmes, Podkarpacie would have to be permanently stationed at least one or two Tatar champs (the bell), a bear would have to be in every municipality to... Thank you, sir, for... There was no sustainable development, and Poland was developing, so ladies and gentlemen... It was Poland B, don't tell me. Mr President, I like you sometimes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u126	Mr President, thank you for your brilliant speech. Again in writing, please. We invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Grzegorz Puda. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that today's discussion shows that this is one of those laws that, after all, the Member, unite rather than divide the majority of the room. I would like to thank you very much for your work in committee and subcommittee meetings, for today's discussion of all those Members who are asking substantive questions, because it is actually clear to many, but many of you have confused the concepts and even very often the ministries. I would like to address most of the questions, try, in certain blocks I will answer. I've got four minutes, so I'm gonna try to do it synthetically. There have been questions from your Members and during the speeches of the representatives of the clubs concerning the development strategy, how it is to be financed, who will finance it. We are talking mainly about municipal and supra-local strategies. I must tell you that this strategy is not mandatory for this reason. In fact, questions have been raised here from one side of the room, who will finance it and, on the other hand, whether it is mandatory. Therefore, you have answered this question yourself. Since it is not mandatory, those smaller municipalities which do not have such opportunities do not have such a substitute for funding, do not have financial resources, will not be obliged to create this strategy. We want the local strategy to ensure that the municipal strategy is consistent with the government's actions and government plans. In fact, the purpose of this law is also to clarify the direction of government and local governments. One of the objectives of this law is to clarify this in this respect. As you know, this law has been in operation since 2006 - I answer the next question - we started work in 2019 and are presenting it to you now. In our opinion, this is a good time. Of course, it can always be said that it could have been faster, but given that we are in such difficult times and in such a difficult situation, and it is so good that we are counting on the support of the state and that this bill will be passed. Two Members made a mistake and asked us questions about the competences of the Ministry of Development. I ask those Members who have asked us this and have addressed us as the Ministry of Funds, as the Ministry of Development, to address these questions, however, to Minister Emilewicz. I think this is the person who's competent to answer these questions. This was, among others, the case. Mr Pontylius. There were also questions about favorite points, favorite topics. As it happens, this record that was pulled out here is a record that is mandatory. At the moment, these EU records are changing a little bit and no longer need to be applied, but at the stage at which this law is being prepared, this provision had to be applied in this form. What is also important - I am replying to this Member, who told us in a flowery language about his thoughts - there is no justification for one hundred and a few dozen pages, but 37 pages. This is a very synthetic justification for the large area covered by this law. There was a question by Mr Slugocki about whether we would make it - because it is already May - together with the voivodships, together with the regions, to prepare all that is in this bill. We know very well that most of the voivodships, a large part of the cities, a large part of the communes are already in the design stage. Most voivodships are already finishing this process, so there is no concern that we will be able to make it in time. Thank you for that question. It is worth noting that of course there will be a transitional period, it is worth mentioning, but even if the transition period was shorter, most of the voivodships are prepared for this. The question was whether the strategy must always be assessed by the joint committee of government and local government. If the Member was a self-government officer, he knows very well that this is a procedure that has already functioned and which functions. In our view, this is a procedure that allows for better cooperation, it is about cooperation between local governments and the government. This is, as I said at the beginning, one of the main principles of this law and it fits into our records. As regards exclusion, functional areas and delays, and how we will use European funds (the Bell), there are no major problems here, ladies and gentlemen. I am replying to the Member who asked the question of this financing. We today do not really know what amount of these cohesion policy funds will be for us. Then we can talk about it. How much for today? We can talk about it if we have that amount. We'd be happy to discuss it. And there's nothing on the table yet? We don't have the data yet. We think that this amount will fall during the German Presidency and we will then be able to discuss it. As regards three people associated with the southern Silesian Voivodeship, there was a question about how it is financed. This is, of course, outside our law, but it is worth replying that the Operational Programme.Infrastructures and environments and the regional operational programme in the southern part of the Silesian Voivodeship, in the vicinity of Bielska, Pszczyna, as the Member rightly pointed out, are well and these measures are not at risk. It is still worth noting that some of these key investments are included in the Silesian programme, which increases their ability to function. Madam, who asked questions... Minister, we're approaching the end slowly because you already have... Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Marshal, 20 more seconds. I'll try... ...you've had a minute and a half longer. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Thank you very much. She asked three questions. The first two questions did not concern our ministry, they concerned the Ministry of Development. Which envoy? Mrs Nykiel has asked three questions. The third question should also be addressed to the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance. I just wanted to tell you that after a lot of long discussions, I can assure you that this is a good bill. I'm glad a lot of clubs see it the same way. Of course, we thank you for the criticisms that have been made in the committees, but we hope that this bill will still be supported by an excellent majority of countries. Thank you very much and I look forward to understanding and supporting this law. [[Applause]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u128	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But this is not a formal proposal, Mr President. And all I can do is fill in? Whoa, whoa, whoa. First things first. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will ask you to change the way in which the discussion is conducted, Mr. Marshal, it is a formal proposal, and for the Minister's written answer to the questions I have asked, because it was not exhaustive. Thank you very much. I'm not happy either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u130	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u131	Thank you very much. Minister! Since you haven't answered my question about Lower Silesia at all, please answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u132	Thank you very much. Can I have another one? But no, listen, there's got to be some sort of order. There are two requests for written reply. I am sure that the Minister's services will be pleased to do so, and the Member and Member will be very pleased with this. I invite the rapporteur, Anna April, Law and Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since I was called from this speaker by Mr Frysztak, who asked a question and left the room, I will allow him to answer his written question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u134	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would ask you, since at the time of the second reading the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the law on the method of calculating the annual gross domestic product (prints No 261 and 355). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal of the Sejm sent on 20 February this year a bill about which you said to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading. On 5 May, the committee first read and adopted with a minor amendment a draft law which contains only two articles, but it is quite important and fundamental, especially for the Mazowsze region. This is a question of the European Commission's decision of 1 January 2018, which adopted the principle related to the statistical breakdown of Poland, and especially of Mazowsze, into two areas: the Warsaw area with the vicinity of the nine Warsaw districts and the area covering the rest of the Mazowsze district. Once this decision had been taken, it had to be validated by way of an entry in the Union statistics. This has happened and, as of today, the law should give - this is the subject of this law - authorisation for the President of the CSO to properly calculate the average value of GDP per capita for the last 3 years at NUTS 1, NUTS 2 and NUTS 3. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the huge money that Poland deserves. It is known that Mazowsze is the largest region, but at the same time with a certain specificity: it has the capital of the country - Warsaw, a very dynamically developing part of Poland, which has already exceeded the EU average, which of course would cause us to fall out as a whole of Mazowsze. This decision was made earlier, today is the time to calculate all of this thoroughly. We hope that this authorisation will allow these amounts to be calculated precisely in the Committee on Public Finance, i.e. averages, and on this basis request that Mazowsze, the part that is already outside Warsaw and the districts around Warsaw, receive funding from EU funds from the new projection for the next 7 years. The Public Finance Commission is asking the Sejm to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u136	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymańska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u137	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The draft law amending the Law on the method of calculating the annual value of gross domestic product, from print No 261, aims to align the provisions of the Act of 26 October 2000 with the amendments of 2009 with the current legal status in the field of statistical territorial division of the country. The provisions of the Regulation of the European Commission have amended the previously existing rules on the common classification of territorial units for statistical purposes, which have led to the change already mentioned here by the previous speaker concerning the statistical division of the Mazowieckie voivodship, which is so far one statistical unit, into two regions: Warsaw capital with nine powiats and regional mazovians covering the rest of the Mazowieckie voivodship. In view of these changes, the revised Article has been amended in the project under examination. 6, which provides that the President of the Central Statistical Office will calculate the average value of GDP per capita for the last 3 years for territorial units, where these are listed, at the three levels referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1059/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a common classification of territorial units for statistical purposes (NUTS). The average value of GDP per capita will then be announced, as is currently the case, by means of a notice in the Polish Monitor by 31 October of the second year after the year ending the last 3 years. The calculation of the annual GDP value set out in Article will not change. 2 and 3 of the amended act. The contested law will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. With a view to closing the existing legal gap concerning the classification of territorial units for statistical purposes, our club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, supports this government bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u138	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mrs Joanna Mucha, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club on print No 261, i.e. the Act amending the Act on the method of calculating the annual gross domestic product. This is indeed a very short law, with two articles, but very important, very important, especially in the context of the next seven-year-old and the next plan, the budget that we will negotiate with the European Union. The change that has been introduced by this law is de facto already functioning in our legal system, because we have so far fed on EU legislation and, on the basis of EU legislation, we have already carried out a number of calculations in line with the proposals that are contained in this law. So, of course, on our part, full agreement to change these laws, to improve them. I think it is worth noticing that from the very justification of this law it appears that these regulations are very late. We read in the explanatory memorandum that on 1 January 2018 the Council of Ministers Regulation repealed previous provisions and since then we have been feeding on European law. So these rules should have been introduced much earlier. It's a good thing this change is being made right now. It welcomes the fact that the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government has given its opinion on this law. The fact that she gave a positive opinion on this project is also a fact that is very happy. Using the fact that I still have some time left and that we still have a chance to talk to the President of the Central Statistical Office, I wanted to ask questions about things that all of us, especially the members of the Committee on Public Finance, are very interested in. Namely, it is today's calculation of inflation. We all know very well that so-called. the inflation basket has in fact changed significantly in terms of what good we consume, which we consume less. We know that prices have changed, for example. the price of fuel, which is, as we know, very important in our consumption. Consumption itself has also changed because many goods and services cannot be consumed at all at a time when there is a pandemic. We also know very well that the basket of our consumption after the pandemic will be different from the one present and the one before the pandemic. I would therefore like, by the way, to use the presence of the President, to ask you to explain to us how the inflation rate will be presented in the near future. Of course, I understand perfectly well that it cannot be changed, because it must be comparable during different observation periods. On the other hand, since this consumption will change during the pandemic and after the pandemic, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the President to present a procedure at which inflation will be reported at the moment. Does the CSO intend to present e.g. Any additional inflation papers? Is there any explanation in which people will be informed of the difference between the inflation they observe and the one that is reported by the CSO? Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u140	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anita Sowinska from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u141	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the position of the left club on amending the law on the calculation of the annual gross domestic product. I would like to start by explaining what NUTS is, because I believe that this explanation should be made by both Members and spectators and listeners. NUTS is the nomenclature of territorial units for statistical purposes. It is a uniform system for dividing Member States into regions and sub-regions in the European Union. Here we distinguish three levels: NUTS 1, NUTS 2 and NUTS 3, of which the second and third levels are the most important for us, because they are precisely used to calculate financial support within the framework of the European Union's structural policy. This allocation is therefore crucial in terms of financial allocations from the European Union. This law is, of course, necessary because it regulates the existing legal status. The Left will vote in favour of this bill. However, I have three comments to this bill. First of all, I'm surprised that the bill is being introduced so late. The rapporteur explained that we needed the bill very much, and that we agree very well. So I ask you, why did we have a gap in the law for two years? The European Commission regulation was issued in 2016 and entered into force in January 2018, so we have over 2 years of delay. My question is: How does this country work where you cannot update the legal standards in time? This is the primary responsibility of the government: to ensure that the law reflects the facts. That's why you're called here, and you're not doing your job properly. The second point is the attention of the project applicant. In the justification of the project we lack information on the financial impact on EU subsidies for Poland. Members, voting on this project, do not know the impact of the division of the Mazowieckie voivodship on two NUTS 2 regions: Warsaw capital and Warsaw regional, as this will affect. Probably... Of course, this will be a greater impact of resources for Warsaw's regional region, but we do not know if it will decrease, for example. revenue for Warsaw's capital, which will be the total balance sheet. We believe that such information should be provided to us before a decision is taken in a normal state of law. Finally, the third point which shows the broader context of this law. Poland uses the European Union's funds for the development of regions, including road construction, fair energy transformation, human capital development and other matters. It is good that we receive money from the European Union for these purposes, but why does the PiS party cut the branch we are sitting on? Why does Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki manipulate that EU aid does not consist of any new measures? The European Union has made a quick decision to allocate almost €7.5 billion to Poland for the fight against the crisis, most of all of the European Union's countries. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Morawiecki forgot to add that these funds would be lost because we did not have time to spend them. I ask why Andrzej Duda, President Andrzej Duda, misleads people by claiming that we are doing well on our own, implementing anti-crisis laws completely without any outside help. I ask why Mr Jarosław Kaczyński undermines trust in the European Union in his statements. Inciting people against the Union by leading politicians of the ruling party is cutting the branch on which we sit. This is particularly irresponsible in times of crisis and the day before the adoption of the new budget of the European Union. I dare say that this is your plan to get out of the European Union, and I say so in the example of the UK, because Brexit didn't come in one day, he lasted for years, and for years it was filled with lies and manipulations by irresponsible politicians. And you're doing the same thing now. You're doing the same thing. Think about what you're doing. I appeal to you for responsibility. Don't lie about the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This does not serve Poles and Poles. Let's learn to respect the house we live in together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u142	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Indeed, efforts have been made for years to exclude Warsaw from the statistical region of the European Union in Mazowieckie. I wanted to appreciate the efforts, which for many years, actually since Poland became a member of the family of the countries of the European Union, was done by Marshal Adam Struzik, feeling well these disparities between Warsaw, Podwarszawskie powiats and e.g. southern Mazowsze with Szydłowce at the head or with the former Ostrłęckie voivodship, e.g. with the town of Myszyniec, where this level was much, much or even - it has to be called - drastically lower than in the case of areas around the capital, or Warsaw. And it worked. This is worth appreciating because this required a number of efforts in the European institutions. I think it is worth appreciating this and today we are, as the previous speakers have said - I will not discover any new information here, no new topics - on the eve of talks about the new budget, new opportunities for these poorer regions of the Mazowieckie voivodship, regions which still, although they have made extraordinary progress in terms of wealth and level of development, this funding requires. I think that this is a good step precisely towards making Mazowsze a voivodship or a region where from its northern ridges to the south this level will be extremely balanced, which I think we should also be very concerned about here in this House in the Polish Sejm. Therefore, the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition with the Polish People's Party and Kukiz15 will be as much in favour of this bill as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u144	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u145	Mr. Marshal! High House! We have a very interesting, important, necessary bill ahead of us, which we owe to our great regulator, normalizer, standardizer, so that we can abandon our archaic, indigenous divisions into voivodships, powiats, municipalities and we have these European macroregions, regions, microregions. Perhaps someone is interested in whether there are Suwałki and Rzeszów in the Eastern Poland macro-region, and in the Puławy micro-region there is Łuków and Janów Lubelski, but this has absolutely no impact on our lives, contrary to what the Member said. For me, these are sick fantasies of Brussels officials and indigenous officials. But at least we have a good opportunity to talk to each other at all. o Central Statistical Office and gross domestic product. As one Austrian, in the sense of the Austrian school of economics, economists, said: a truly free politician should start his government by liquidating the statistical office. I'm such a free politician. I would eliminate this office not only because it is a apparatus of oppression for entrepreneurs who have to carry out a number of reports and are punished for not fulfilling them, but also because it deals with different standards, including GDP. These measures, including GDP, are a diabolical tool in the hands of politicians. And that's what we've been seeing for years. Closest example: the statement of the NBP President. Not so long after the pandemic broke out, the government shut the whole country down. It was known, everyone knew there was going to be a huge recession this year. NBP President says: this year the gross domestic product will be 2%. The most famous Polish tax advisor Sławomir Mentzen responded to this one simple, iconic, today philosophical: XD. But Sławomir Mentzen made a little bit of a mistake. Mr. President wasn't at all wrong in his forecast, he set this forecast. I wouldn't be surprised if the Central Statistical Office actually calculated this increase in GDP as 2%. Why? Because it's one big manipulation. We have an example from 2014. In order not to break the expenditure rule, which the Platform itself, with the assistance of the Union, has imposed on itself, we have implemented changes in the way GDP is calculated and we added gross domestic product, for example. prostitution, drug trafficking. And where did the CUS get that information? From the ceiling. With this, for example. GDP growth in Poland in 2009 was 1.2% according to previous calculations, according to a later methodology twice as high. Can we do that? Yeah, I can do that. The absurdity of this parameter is that it includes not only some abstract, untraceable values, such as the positive impact of prostitution or drugs on our economy, but also public services. This is ridiculous. We have an island that produces $1,000. apples, this is the whole domestic product. And some EU government says, "Okay, we're building you some big office of standardization, standardization of bites, and you're gonna be paying 200 apples for this office." Do you know how GDP will change? It's gonna grow, it's gonna rise by 200 apples. We're gonna take $1,000 out of this society. 200 apples, but we will provide a service of standardization of bites, which is worth 200 apples, and thus value GDP will rise to 1,200 apples. In fact, as Murray Rothbard wrote - I do not know if you have heard - you should not use a gross domestic product, but a private domestic product that does not include public services. Public services are simply difficult to measure, difficult to estimate, because we, as a society, are not counting them. These are services not only imposed on us by force, but also financed by looting, through the tax system. So that the domestic product should be calculated not by adding national public services to a private product, but by subtracting them, because that is exactly what the prosperity of this island will be reduced. It's not going to rise from $1,000. Apples up to 1,200, it'll only fall to 800, because the officials will eat 200. So that's it. How will the Confederation vote on this bill? It doesn't matter at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u146	Thank you very much. The conclusion of the Member surprised me a little, but it is interesting. Let's move on to asking questions. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u147	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, After that colorful speech, I'd like to go back to earth. We are in the European Union and we need these NUTS. Balance sheet as at 1 May: we received EUR 181 billion, we paid EUR 58 billion, and so it came out EUR 123 billion on a plus for Poland. That's why these NUTS are so important. This question has not been answered before, but we will ask the President or the Minister responsible to answer. Yesterday was like this: the left doesn't know what the right hand does. So the president was talking about statistics, and we still don't know how this statistics translate into additional funds. These solutions were prepared in the previous financial perspective. Balance of perspective was the greatest possible in terms of money that came to Poland. But Mrs Mucha, using the fact that the President is in the Chamber, asked us the most interesting question that concerned inflation. If we set the inflation basket this way, we'll all be richer in the end. Turns out the retirees won't need a 13 or they're gonna have to pay back because we're gonna have deflation in this basket. This is the most important question outside the advertising you are talking about, which is the agricultural census. Today the calculation of inflation is the most important problem for every Pole. Mr. Marshal! We should, if the marshal would allow... We'll talk at our club, but I think your club will also be interested in talking about inflation. It's about how the basket's gonna look or if we're gonna have a raise. We pay a lot more for different products today, and you say that inflation is approx. 2,5% Which we don't agree with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u148	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I do not question the method of calculating gross domestic product, but I wanted to find out when the government and the Central Statistical Office will separate another statistical area, this time it is part of Lower Silesia, which achieves significantly lower development rates than the entire Lower Silesia region. If Lower Silesia currently exceeds 75% the average EU GDP per capita is the southern part of the region, such as the Jelenia Góra subregions and the Wałbrzych subregions, reaching 50%. This limits access to EU funds. This situation requires a new regulation, giving an opportunity for the slightly poorer sub-regions to have access to EU funds so that this development is even. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u150	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, I will continue the thought of my esteemed previous speaker, because this is not just a question of the Lower Silesian voivodeship. There are several voivodships in Poland, which very quickly, by the power of their own, I would say, the most developed regions, are catching up on EU GDP and reaching more and less value, which will deprive these regions, in principle entire voivodships, of the possibility of using the Cohesion Fund. And the question is: Does the government see any possibility of further work to separate these poorer regions, those that are, as it were, counted together with strong regional centres, are put into the basket of developed ones, and in fact they still need the support that will help them catch up with these more developed regions? Does the government even carry out any analytical work in this direction? Is there any chance of separation also in the Silesian Voivodship of such regions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u152	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about a project that will allow us to separate the part of Mazovia so that we can get more European funding in the future so that these more neglected parts of Mazovia can get more money. However, the funding of local governments is a wider problem. Actually, I have a question for the government more than the head of the CSO for one important thing. Today, we have a crisis caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus, while urban centres such as Warsaw suffer from the fact that they continue to pay very high Yanosi, even though at the moment their income will fall significantly. I wanted to ask, as a Warsaw Member, whether the suspension of Janosik during the crisis caused by the epidemic is under consideration. We are aware that Janoskowo is calculated on the basis of income from 2 years ago, from economic times, while at the moment the situation is significantly worse. Large cities therefore pay money, although at the moment they have much lower incomes and at the same time have very high obligations due to the fact that many tasks have been transferred to them. Isn't it worth it by the way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the income of the whole Mazowsze, also think about Warsaw? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, is urgently called upon.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u155	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, we are talking about how gross domestic product is to be calculated, and I would like to ask the applicant's representatives how you are designing 2020 in terms of health expenditure. You all know that the current year is the first year in 30 years, which can end with a recession for the Polish economy. The government estimates this decline in GDP at 3.4%. which still seems to be a moderately optimistic forecast. Assuming such a scenario, this could mean a loss of nearly PLN 20 billion in the budget of the National Health Fund. Is there any prognostic work in this regard? Can this reduced GDP in 2020 affect NF spending on health benefits? That's a question for the government. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law is not intended to change the way gross domestic product is calculated, but it is not known how the distribution of EU funds in a new perspective for certain regions may be possible after the amendment of the legislation, e.g. Mazowieckie voivodship. How will this be presented in the Silesian Voivodeship? It is a situation where there is a rich city and its districts and a poorer region. Are you in possession of a simulation of how the distribution of funds in such a situation might look? Why is there no transitional provisions in the Act? What is the certainty that there will be no difficulty in setting the initial date from which the deadline for calculating and announcing the average value of GDP per capita is to be calculated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This 2-year slip probably results from the fact that Law and Justice hate your Marshal Struzik, because I see no other reason why we are discussing this project after 2 years. I wanted to ask a broader question, because today we are talking about a gross domestic product, which, in order for it to be, has to rely on the work of people and the work of entrepreneurs. I am not going to bully the President, I am going to ask the Prime Minister directly, who is responsible for this whole dream team. Prime Minister, you here in this House have spoken of a balanced budget, for which the whole nation is thanking you. You were also talking about 200 billion, and even now 300 billion, which you are handing over to entrepreneurs and employees, for which the nation is extremely grateful to you. You have placed Mr. Adam Glapiński in the honorable position, who said that we have an unlimited amount of cash to spend on this aid, for which the nation is extremely grateful to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, let this rain of money begin, this manna of money will finally begin, or the nation will show you the gesture of the Lichocke messenger. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u160	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Wieczorek from the parliamentary club of the Left. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I would like to ask Mr Sługocki very kindly, who will be standing here with us in a moment so that his friends from the Platform and friends from the Left do not disturb, because it is all heard here. But we're talking about it, Mr. Marshal. About. And you say things that bother people, your colleagues and my colleagues, so that there's a kind request. I'm so sorry, Marshal. Congratulations on your excellent hearing. No, you can just hear us, 'cause there aren't enough of us. So, as I might ask, it would be nice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We've heard the same thing. We just don't have the guts to get your attention. On the other hand, on the subject of this bill, I have a question about what is happening in the Polish government. Again, there is another delay in the implementation of European Union directives. We all agree that this is a very important bill, it is an important directive that gives us the opportunity to benefit from EU funds. Therefore, my question is this: Is the fact that we are only discussing this today and we are implementing it today not the result that we have lost any EU funds that could have been used before 2020? And second question. We are talking about GDP, which we need to calculate in order to use European Union funds, but whether the government is currently running [[♪ The bell ♪]] research and analysis on GDP in 2020? Because we know very well that it will be much lower and that not only health care can suffer, but also local governments and many other areas of our lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u162	Thank you very much. We invite Mr Waldemar Sługocki from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u163	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The question, of course, concerns the matter that we are dealing with. We all know very well that the statistical nomenclature of units for territorial purposes is extremely important for the redistribution of European aid under cohesion policy. We know that the first objective is to cover those regions where GDP per capita is less than 75% the EU average. Until now, all Polish regions were in the first place, excluding Mazowsze, because Mazowsze was already in the 2014-2020 perspective for a transitional purpose. Of course, the gross domestic product will definitely exceed 75% the EU average, and therefore, as I understand it, this extremely important, important, necessary and necessary procedure to exclude Mazowsze (The Bell) and to create de facto 17 NUTS 2. My question, Mr President, is this: are you also considering this - my club colleague Mrs Czernow said about it - that other regions, if not in this perspective, will certainly be at risk of falling out of the first target in the next one? Does the statistical office examine these relationships and prepare in any way for other exemptions? Is that the matter you're considering? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The way we calculate GDP is a very important issue, only why we are dealing with it just now, when we should increase unemployment benefits, take care of the fate of cultural animators, eliminate trash cans or help the franchise, which he promised five years ago and which he did not meet, Andrzej Duda. Without help for them there will be no GDP soon and there will simply be nothing to count. The Left has put forward very good projects to protect workers to protect the unemployed, and perhaps we should, if the government cannot deliver the last part of the shield in which all this should be included, proceed at the moment over these projects of the Left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u167	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! The first question is extremely obvious: Why is it so late? After all, this law should have been processed much earlier. Second question. We know that the exclusion of Warsaw from NUTS 2 de facto does not change anything for Warsaw itself, and much changes for the rest of Mazowsze. Therefore, I would like to ask what financial instruments will be able to benefit from this and whether we are able to estimate how much more financial resources will be able to obtain Mazovia thanks to this change. Of course, it is a question of how much GDP per person is currently in the case of Mazowsze, Warsaw, and how much will be after this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u168	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u169	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The diversity in the development of Europe's regions is large, but the level of development also depends on what criteria are used for calculation. Changing the criteria to the next perspective for 2021 and 2027 results in a loss of EUR 10 billion in this appendix. Another 10 billion losses are due to the level of development. So this is extremely important. So what does it look like in other countries when it comes to regions and metropolitan areas? There is also a difference in the level of development in Poland. Probably the best example is Mazowsze, because part of Mazowsze, part of the districts is at a lower level of development than other districts of eastern Poland, which includes a special programme for creating a development opportunity. The question, then, is what the consequences will be. I know this isn't about specific calculations, it's about the scale of change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much could Warsaw lose on this? How much can the Mazowsze get? Whether the whole region loses, or the individual just... It would be wrong if all Mazowsze were to lose at the expense of losing Warsaw. We know that large agglomerations create development. Large agglomerations create jobs, bring progress, technology, technology, etc. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee a question. Many Members, the previous speakers, have touched on this problem, but I think it would be worth referring directly to it. What was behind this delay in implementing this solution, which had already been negotiated in the European institutions a long time ago? Very specific, clear: What was the reason for this? We know that you have had a variety of ideas as a governing majority for five years. Such a black figure will be Prime Minister Sasin, who has undertaken a mission of some sort of reckless division of Mazowsze. Is there a simple reason why we're only implementing this now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u172	Thank you very much. That concludes the questions. I ask the President of the Central Statistical Office of Mr Dominik Rozkrut to answer these fascinating, brilliantly asked and intriguing questions and then the rapporteur of the commission of Mr Zdzisław Sipiera. Mr. President, you have the floor. And once again... I'm gonna throw a pen at you and it's gonna be a swing. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You know, then the Left will pay a great price for you. Please, sir. We're talking about how politics was built... I'm checking out, Marshal. I threaten you with my finger - Mr Czesław Siekierski and Mr. Part of the blame is on me. Hi, be smart, please. Mr. President, you're welcome. You have a platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased that I have the opportunity to present, by the way, a very unintriguing legislative change, which at the same time raises so many questions. I have notes drawn up according to the order of your speeches. I'll try not to miss anything and answer the questions asked one at a time. Mrs Joanna Mucha asked me a question about inflation. Of course, I can give you very detailed explanations. We're trying to communicate how we count inflation, very transparently. All information is posted on our website. As far as these specific issues are concerned, the measurement of inflation is indeed a consequence of assumptions, observation methods and methods of aggregation of data. It is very important in this process that we shape this process in such a way that we can generate comparable statistics in time and space. When I think about space, I mean the European Statistical System. We are members of the European Statistical System. The way we formulate these inflation assessments that are published is 100% compatible, harmonised at European level. You know that recently, when we published these first results in the course of the epidemic, we reported that we prepared these calculations in such full cooperation, using the so-called. Guidelines published a few days earlier by Eurostat. It is about a guide, as in a difficult situation these statistics produce, so that we all at European Union level generate statistics that are comparable. Of course, there are significant problems. Certain observations cannot be made because certain types of services are not offered, certain types of goods do not sell. Indeed, there is a problem of changing such a basic basket in the household, averaged, i.e. one that does not really suit anyone, between us speaking, but statistics are governed by their own legal and such aggregates have been ruled for a long time. Of course, throughout this process, we use the same guidelines to make the statistics we generate comparable at the European Statistical System level. Believe me, this process is very advanced, profound. He often relies on day - to - day setting of rules. Today I had the pleasure, perhaps not the pleasure, but the duty, because I am the president of the bureau of the European Statistical Committee, to attend a meeting of such a body overseeing the European Statistical System, in which we have explained exactly the same thing, we have reported how this is done at the level of the European Union as a whole. Let me say this: because there are some changes in the market, the highest value is to agree that we treat it in the same way in all countries, so that the statistics we generate are comparable between countries. This is their highest value. We're trying to do our best. Of course, the issue of perceived inflation is a very important, difficult issue, because each of us has different inflation, but as statistical offices we generate some macroeconomic aggregates that represent economic phenomena at macroeconomic and microeconomic levels. We will always face this dilemma, especially at times where inflation is far from certain expectations, I would say, of society. He can't go too far. That's the problem. If they run to some level... it makes no sense. Sure. For my part, I offer here full cooperation and complete transparency for your Members. If there are any informational needs in this area and we are able to... We try to explain this as much as any kind of questions come to us. If this process is insufficient, of course I am open to any critical remarks here and we will try to improve this process. Believe me, we are trying with the utmost care to carry out these commitments that have been entrusted to us, knowing that they are in the interests of all of us, regardless of who the political views represent, to which I did not want to refer at all, because we function as statistics somewhere in such another dimension of precisely those specialists who are trying to measure what is happening in society and in the economy. Will there be any further explanations? As I said, we will try to communicate all of this on an ongoing basis and perhaps even better present it to you. I'm gonna go one at a time. The next question was Mrs Anita Sowińska, why such a delay between 2016 and 2018. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right, and now, how do I have so many questions? The marshal will agree. Okay, thank you very much. I wouldn't think of it as a delay, because there were certain grounds, i.e. the regulation at European Union level is, is, is, is. This is just a matter of ordering the legal basis, which was pointed out. I would like to point out one thing very strongly: nothing changes in the way gross domestic product is calculated, nothing changes at all, and on the basis of these previous legal bases we have published it in the manner in which we publish it. I would also like to deny to a certain illusion that this change is now introduced only because it is the Mazowieckie voivodeship... as if the division of it has been formalized in some way. This division has already taken place. Such divisions took place in four countries of the European Union, as I remember, in that round, a round of changes in statistical classification. Statistical classification is used to aggregate once again a common, coherent way at European level of statistics. This change, it has a strict dimension, only statistical. What you want me to do in terms of information about the possible financial consequences is, to be honest, more a question towards the Ministry responsible for this. Here it is the Ministry of Funds, which deals with these matters on an ongoing basis and participates in negotiations. This is all from the information I've been able to get since yesterday, when we received this question also at the committee meeting. We received this information from the Ministry today. All these negotiations are going on. I, in reply to the chairman of the committee, allow myself to send these explanations myself from the ministry, but, of course, there is a place where de facto implementation or otherwise: the possible use of the way something is statistically classified is already political and is negotiated by the Ministry together with the European Commission. We have to thank you, Mr. Chairman, politely. Yes? Yeah, 'cause that's a little... Two minutes... Because there are a lot of questions. In writing. In writing, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u174	Yeah, but you'll answer in writing. I gave you two minutes more. Thank you very much, sir. I think some of them are satisfied with these answers and others are not, but I'm sure the president has done his best. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a few comments. First of all, thank you, because we are able, apart from one circle, to say that it does not know how it will behave, but let's ignore it with silence, get a consensus here, that is, we believe that this is a matter according to the law may not be of such a rank, because it is the ordering of regulations, whereas the issue of the consequences of this is very important, because we as Poland are fighting for the means for which we want them to be absorbed in our country. And don't let those drugs go anywhere else. Mr Siekierski spoke about very important matters. It is in Mazovia that, Mr President, there is a very significant... Some of the districts even took some reflections on the fact that we would go through, for example. to other voivodships, because that's where they have higher resources. This is obviously a certain game of business. Let us be aware that Europe plays the way the laws allow. And if it is that we would get rid of these measures and Mazowsze fell out of it through Warsaw, let's be honest here... And Mr Rozenek is absolutely mistaken that the government does not like your marshal... Ha, ha! ...because as a representative of this government in the past I cannot afford such a narrative to impose that my contacts with Mr. Marshal were wrong, on the contrary, at my request, among others. one of the meetings of the Voivodeship Council for Social Dialogue was held just discussing what is being discussed today in the Sejm. That is why I am pleased that we are of the same opinion here, while all these small things that have a dimension are really not relevant. We are talking about a few billion euros, not small money, and this money for Mazowsze is absolutely worth it. It's a good thing we can speak one language here. I hope that this will also be translated into an external language, the one that will be in Brussels. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is another very important element that may not be directly due to these assumptions regarding the calculation of what the president of the CSO will be doing. This is a matter of certain political decisions taken at the level of local governments. At the beginning of the previous parliamentary term there were ideas which went in such a direction that certain regions of Poland are so developing that they should create metropolitan centres, and these are not many. In Silesia it worked, in Mazowsze it didn't. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's not a question. Also to the government, that's a question for the local government. If you play the textbooks or the newspapers from that time, you'll read to yourself what the attack was, that it's an attack on self-government. No, it was a matter of money, ladies and gentlemen. And if we are just going to start talking, and especially who like who, but Members or Senators should talk about money, and it is due to Poland, it is a primary task, not the well-being of the authority of one or the other, because it is a matter of interest of the Polish state, not just a given self-government. This is the answer to some Members' questions about why this has happened. These are questions, among others. some large cities who stand in the position that they will rather manage, because they are so operational and wealthy, and these smaller towns - not quite. In Mazowsze, ladies and gentlemen, there have been and there are places where the difference in GDP is between 55 and 222. There are no such differences anywhere in Poland. These are huge differences. I know that one political party is talking about Janosik, suspension, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell those local authorities, who are often waiting for the only investment that comes from Janosik, that they will be suspended this year. Tell that openly to the local government. I know that these are the voices that fall from the biggest cities, the rich, where budgets are multi-billion-dollar. But these districts and municipalities, which do not have such budgets, would unfortunately have a problem with the element of income levels and investment opportunities in their small homelands. Thank you again, because this is a good forecast that we can have a similar viewpoint in this area and fight for the measures that Poland and Mazowsze deserve. Thank you very much, Marshal. In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, the left club, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u177	Thank you, Marshal. Well, sir, when you were a representative of the government in our region, this cooperation was indeed working out - I must confirm that. A representative of the government in the field, sir. You misunderstood me. But one swallow of spring doesn't, as you know. Mr Sipiera - you may not know - was a voivode and actually did this function decently. There were contacts between local governments and your voivodeship. But I will also remind you of the second face of your government: Mr. Sasin, who wiped his shoes with Mazowiecki self-governments, proposing an agglomeration bill, which he did not consult with anyone. So just because you, Mr President, behaved decently in your office doesn't mean that the whole government behaves that way. [[Applause]] And that doesn't mean the whole government loves you, Marshal Struzik. I think it's the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u178	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Thank you all very much for your participation in the discussion. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Information from the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2018 (print No 66) together with the position of the Committee on Senior Policy (print No 236). I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to present the information we are interested in. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The obligation to monitor the situation of older people in Poland arises from the provisions of the Act on older people, therefore the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy every year in cooperation with public institutions carrying out activities for the benefit of older people, including those at the level of voivodships, develops information about the situation of older people in Poland in the past year. The structure of the document is the same as in previous editions. The first part contains information on the socio-economic situation of older people in Poland. In addition, it includes a study on the current social policy for older people at central and regional level. For the first time, a set of supporting tables was used to make the collected information more structured and transparent. The 2018 information also takes into account for the first time data on the activities resulting from the document entitled: Social policy towards the elderly 2030. Security - Participation - Solidarity, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2018 As this document was adopted in the last quarter of the month. , all public institutions have started the implementation of the action resulting from this document. It is worth noting that the information was adopted on 6 November 2019 by the Council of Ministers and was already available to the general public. The material is very wide, extensive, counts almost 400 pages. So, Mr. Marshal, I'm going to give you just a few briefings, although I don't know if the time is five minutes or if it's going to be longer... Minister, I'm afraid it'll be five minutes, but it's a good thing you gave up reading this book, we'll be fine. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Good. It's just a little bit, because in fact the subject is so extensive that... Demographic situation - we are talking about 2018. The population of Poland amounted to 38 400 thousand, including less than 25%, because over 9.5 million are people aged 60 years and over. The forecasts that we have, which include the time to 2050, prepared by the Central Statistical Office, predict a drop in population of 4.5 million by 2050, except that compared to 60-year-olds and more, this range will increase to 13 700 000. And it's going to be about 40%. the general public. This challenge that we will be discussing today concerns this category of people. Economic situation. In 2018, the average monthly income available per person in households, including the elderly, amounted to PLN 1970 and was more than 15% higher than on holdings consisting only of younger persons. As regards social assistance issues, in 2018, the number of people who were awarded a specialized care service amounted to almost 6 thousand, the number of benefits - more than 1350 thousand and the amount of benefits - more than PLN 26 million. The care services were awarded over 106 thousand. persons. The number of benefits was over 33 million and the amount of benefits - more than PLN 588 million. Situation on the labour market. In 2018, professionals aged 60 and over accounted for 7.5% the general public active at the age of 15 and above. Here, this employment rate was 14%. Education and cultural activity of seniors - in the country there are 338 municipal councils of seniors appointed in accordance with the Local Government Act. In 2018, there were 640 universities of the third century in Poland. Universities operated in all voivodships. As regards disabled persons, the majority of disabled older people had legal confirmation of their disability. Among these, the most numerous groups were 60 and 64 years of age and 80 years of age and older. With regard to the programmes that are being implemented, I will mention the multi-annual programme "Senior+" for the 2015-2020 period. Within the framework of this programme, 257 new Senior+ facilities were set up in 2018 and 229 existing ones have benefited from support for their current operation. In total, almost 500 senior+ institutions were operating in Poland together with institutions established in the previous years until the end of 2018, including 224 daily senior homes and 273 senior clubs (Dzwonek), which together offered almost 13 thousand seniors. Places. It is worth reminding here that the funds we spend on this programme amount to PLN 80 million. In previous years it was an amount of PLN 30 million, i.e. there has been a significant increase in expenditure. A government programme for older people's social activity, popularly called ASOS. In this respect 325 projects received funding in 2018 for a total amount of almost PLN 38 million. It is worth recalling that the programme is currently financed in the amount of PLN 40 million, in previous editions it was financed at the level of PLN 10 million, which is also a significant increase. More than 106 thousand participated in various ASOS activities. Participants. The "75+' care programme was extended in 2018 to municipalities with up to 60 000. residents. The first version concerned municipalities up to 20,000. residents. Over 390 municipalities benefited from this scheme. With the implementation of the 75+-care programme in 2018, almost 3 000 have benefited from care services. persons over 75 years of age. As far as the multi-annual State aid scheme for nutrition is concerned... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, why not tell Mrs Lidia Burzyńska about this multiannual programme? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Two sentences and I'm done. Two sentences. First... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: There's also a nutrition program. I'm not talking about the others. It is worth recalling that all the information was adopted by the Senior Policy Committee of both the Sejm and the Senate, which is why I ask the High House to accept information about the situation of the elderly in Poland in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u180	Thank you, Minister. I gave two more minutes so that we absolutely wanted to hear it. I invite Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u181	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present to the government information about the situation of older people in Poland for 2018, print No 66. The Committee on Senior Policy at its meeting on 15 January 2020 discussed this document. During the meeting a discussion was held which was attended not only by Members but also by invited guests representing different environments. It is worth mentioning that the document submitted comprehensively presents and describes social policy towards older people in Poland, which is implemented at both central and regional level. As part of the planned actions, public institutions take into account, which is very important, the recommendations made for the previous year, which undoubtedly gives continuity, improves the broadly understood aid addressed to seniors. On behalf of the Committee on Senior Policy, I thank you for preparing this document, which shows the situation of older people in Poland on many levels of their lives and their functioning. Following a very turbulent, thorough and substantive discussion, the committee asks the High Sejm to accept information about the situation of the elderly in Poland for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u182	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u183	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding information of the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2018. The information is contained in print No 66. The broad understanding of social policy towards older people is one of the priorities of the rule of law and justice. We live longer, but we want to live better. We face challenges arising from dynamic changes in the population structure. These challenges are being met consistently by the government And effective. Numerous measures are being taken to improve the material and living situation of seniors, to provide them with access to health care, to maintain their professional, social, educational, cultural and sporting activities. As part of the "Senior+' programme, local authorities receive record support in implementing their strategies for older people, including the expansion of the networks of daily homes and senior+ clubs. In 2018 we allocated the highest amount of PLN 80 million to the programme in history. In homes and clubs, seniors are provided not only with cultural and sports activities, but also with meals and care and assistance in carrying out daily activities. In 2018, 260 new facilities were created: houses and senior clubs. Since January 2018, it has been implemented, addressed to small municipalities, the 75+-care programme, designed to improve the availability of caring services, improve the quality of life of people aged 75+. The programme covered PLN 4.5 million in 2018. More than 2,800 people were included in care services, and 394 municipalities benefited from the scheme. The implementation of a free drug scheme for seniors - Leki 75+s in 2018 Let the numbers speak here. Twenty-four hundred thousand. Seniors benefited from the programme in 2018. Nearly PLN 400 million is the amount allocated this year to the programme, 40 million - the number of free medicines delivered to seniors, 21 million is the number of S-code prescriptions completed, over 2 thousand. is the number of items on the list of medicines. Finally, 500 million PLN - in 2018 patients' 75+ expenses for medicines reimbursed by this programme decreased. Another big deal. We made a social contract. Poles benefited from the restoration of early retirement age: 60 years for women and 65 years for men. In 2018, nearly 384 thousand were awarded. pensions. Minimum pensions and pensions are also systematically increasing, thus improving the situation of the poorest groups. The government's agenda for older people's social activity is PLN 40 million each year for maintaining the activity of independent seniors, but also for intergenerational integration, where the younger generation can draw on the experience of older people's lives. In 2018, 325 projects completed in 16 voivodships were co-financed. Information about the situation of older people in Poland for 2018 is a description and diagnosis of the current situation of seniors, their needs and expectations. It shows and reflects the direction and progress of social policy at central and regional levels towards older people. It presents the activities of public institutions as well as those undertaken at regional level. Its integral part is proposals and recommendations for further action. I would like to point out that for the first time in the information we have included data showing the actions taken on the basis of the government's "Social policy towards the elderly" 2030 document. Security - Participation - Solidarity, which sets the course of action in senior policy. The government recognises and carries out tasks aimed at improving the quality of life of Poles, including in particular those of senior age. Only in 2018, the Ministry of the Family addressed to the elderly a package of programmes amounting to more than PLN 150 million. According to the motto: let us make the world better than we found it, make Poland better and more friendly to seniors. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u184	Thank you very much. As you know, I'm not mean and I've never been in my life, but I'm curious if people who are in social services know they have as well as I just heard. Maybe it is. [[Applause]] I think they know, Mr. Marshal. I think it is. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir. I'm asking you not to review what I'm saying. Oh, that hurt the Member. And I have a request that you don't review the Marshal's words. I'll call upon your authority. Your Marshal Witek always has such requests too, so please don't review the words of the Marshal. I invite Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Minister presented the archive data. The year 2018 is behind us. We are, High Izbo, here and now, in the middle of a pandemic. We're in a 200,000 situation. Older Poles and Poles stay in social care homes, in permanent care facilities, in care and medical institutions, in hospices, in palliative medicine departments. Rule! Why did you forget the Polish seniors? Since January, we've been aware of the threat we're facing. But what was the government doing? The government was whimpering until the epidemic came. In April, you remembered the permanent residence facilities. On April 7th, one month after the first case of Coronavirus in Poland, the voivods transferred personal protective equipment to social services homes. A month too late. We remember all the names of the localities where the outbreak of Coronavirus occurred. We also remember the actions that the voivods took: always late, never on time. We also remember how insolently they exercised their rights regarding their duty to work. To whom did they direct their duty to work? They directed this obligation to persons over the age of 60 who were not subject to legal regulations. The government has given the seniors a hell of a lot of time in permanent care facilities. What does the Civic Coalition propose? We've presented a bill, a project that your marshal hasn't even given a seym number so far, a project on mandatory tests for all those employed in permanent care facilities, [[Applause]] a project that talks about screening tests for all people in these facilities, health establishments and all workers working there. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the only problem of Polish seniors: lack of tests and safety. We also have, ladies and gentlemen, a tragic situation, a situation that Europe does not know: in Poland there are - attention - 124 24-hour care homes in an illegal manner, without permission. This is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 31 December 2019. The Voivodeships do not control this situation. There, ladies and gentlemen, in these illegal homes, human dramas can happen - without standards, without control, without supervision, especially during the epidemic, without providing sanitary conditions. This is a case we've known about for a long time. Nothing about this, High Izbo, the government wasn't doing anything. Next issue - a dramatic situation in hospices and in the field of palliative care. How long does it take for palliative care to take place in a hospice? During the control only of the Supreme Chamber of Control 700 people did not see the moment of acceptance, died in their own homes, suffering, often without painkillers. Another issue - the record number of starvation pensions. Hunger pensions are less than minimum pensions. I'm sure the High House would like to hear the data. How many people did this pension take in December 2015? 76,000. How many people were there at the end of December 2019? 261,000. An increase of 184,000. One in six Pole who retired in 2018 receives a benefit below the statutory minimum. No implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2014 on benefits to caretakers of adults with disabilities. How many times, Minister, have you been on this platform and promised that there's already a government project? Until now, caretakers of disabled adults have not received their money that they deserved. Another issue - the health situation, geriatrics. It's the devastation Radziwiłł made by introducing a network of hospitals, record queues to POZ doctors and specialists. In line for endocrinologists you will wait 2 years, to vascular surgeon - 10 months, to orthopedic surgeon - 7 months. These are specific data. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, it's a case of crazy expensive, Mr. Marshal. This is the last case. Increase in vegetable prices by 22% year-on-year, 19% increase in pork price by 12% bread price increases. And in the last place, the biggest remorse. In March 2018, like one husband - this empty hall today - you voted against the Act - Retirement without tax. You took away Polish pensioners' income, their increased income, fixed, cyclical, monthly. No one-off benefit, paid once a year, will replace the fact that Polish pensioners and Polish rencistoms are entitled to a pension without tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u186	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think in a normal company, if someone showed a report of a year and a half post factum, he'd be fired. We don't have that kind of opportunity, but I think it's lucky that this report for 2018, full of stories about success and how all seniors are doing well, we're proceeding now, in this difficult time of epidemic. The report contains 460 pages, Minister, a little more, because in this form we got it, you probably have fewer pages in the book, but there are no conclusions on these 460 pages. They're here. The report does not end in conclusions, and the conclusions are most important, an indication of what should be changed. The Member suggests that they are, only that they are written in such a way that... But you say you don't. Well, statistically, going out with a dog for a walk, we each have three legs each. Would you agree with me? No. Unfortunately, it is. This report is a combination of individual statistical calculations, but you will not find in it information that we have only 436 geriatrics in Poland, but you will find information that no doctor is waiting for, that seniors have no problem accessing doctors. That we are acting post factum, we see today what my predecessor Mr Szczerba was talking about. I'm not going to repeat what the DPS situation is today, because I think everyone knows that. On the other hand, we are looking for solutions on what to do with the DPS. Minister, at the beginning of April you brought masks for which there is no approval, there is no admission to the Polish market. But the pictures are. Any attempt to obtain such a certificate shall fail. So if you'll excuse me, perhaps you've bought something that you're infecting yourself with? You can't control the smallest cases. Not to mention the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Today it is not enough that seniors will actually have limited access to physiotherapy for three more months, but because of the pandemic and your ideas to save the economy, unfortunately some of these offices will be closed. If they are shut down, where will these people be helped? The economic situation is very bad, in particular the price of goods, and you're talking about the fact that there's money coming in for seniors. But how much more do these seniors spend? I think my friend at the club will tell you about it later. So thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u188	Thank you very much. We invite a colleague from the club, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, a parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the introduction to the press release No 66 on the situation of older people in Poland for 2018, there is a statement: Therefore, actions for older people have become a priority of public social policy implemented by the Polish government. It can even calm Polish seniors. It also sounds optimistic, as we can read, that in 2018, the average life expectancy for a male newborn was 73.8 years, while in the case of a female newborn - 81.6 years. And that's the end of the positive information. Unfortunately, the economic situation of Polish seniors and seniors is not so wonderful. We will no longer read about this directly in the study. The average values, unfortunately, do not reflect the facts and do not directly relate to poverty-related issues. In 2018, the share of people living in poverty at the age of 60 and over increased to 4.3%. Let me remind you that in 2017 this was a share of 3.5% That means there's been an increase of 20%. Surely this high level of poverty would significantly reduce the introduction of the Left project on a minimum pension of PLN 1600. Unfortunately, this project was rejected at first reading and will not be further processed. Due to this incomprehensible choice, pensioners did not receive a minimum monthly income guarantee of PLN 1600, but TVP received PLN 2 billion. Unfortunately, due to watching public television (The Bell) Poles and Poles will not be less hungry, and certainly the group living in poverty will not decrease. High Izbo! In December 2018, 750 thousand. persons with a fixed pension right were subject to health insurance for purposes other than being a pensioner. Nearly half a million of them were also subject to pension and pension insurance. Over the last four years, the number of retired workers has increased by around 30%. Why are they working? Is it because they love work so much? The answer is simple: no, they don't work for pleasure, they work because their pensions are too low. High Izbo! Seniors deserve a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u190	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Ścigaj, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u191	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the club's position on the information presented by the Council of Ministers about the situation of the elderly for 2018. I will start with the digression that I do and repeat every time we talk about the reports next year in any area, because there are a lot of these reports. The report for a given year, the effectiveness and way of spending money cannot be assessed if, at the very beginning of this year, we do not have the specific indicators that we are aiming for, that is, what we are aiming for, how much money will be needed for this and whether it worked or not. Every time I call for such an efficient way of managing public finances, especially in social policy, because in every report you can actually write on 500 pages what was fun doing, but aside from what did not work, and whether money was well spent. The situation of the elderly. The fact that the situation of older people should be an absolute priority at the moment, perhaps for every society, is simply what we know from the indicators. 2010 is 19.6% of senior citizens in society, 2018 is already 25%, an increase of 261 thousand. people, and in 2050, as expected, about 35%. We will all be seniors and here, in this case, we can plan an effective, systemic policy to achieve different priorities. But let's take a look at some of the situations in the report. Economic situation. Ladies and gentlemen! The lowest pension in 2011 is PLN 728, in 2018 PLN 1029. The report contains an indicator of 2.6%. 3.4, on average 2.4, is inflation, so there really was no increase, just costing. It indicates... My previous speakers have already said that poverty among pensioners is increasing. In total poverty in 2018 despite major social programmes jumped to 5.4% compared to the previous year, when it was 4% , just like that. because, unfortunately, on the lowest pension you're talking about, it's 219,000. more people than in previous years. So these are the indicators: we have relatively more, while more people live in this extreme poverty. The solution would already be mentioned here, a project submitted by the Polish Coalition, but this is a civic project which was previously submitted by citizens: This is a very good solution, because pensioners need money for their expenses every month and you don't have to take them away, you just have to leave them in the budget. Every month they spend money on their lives. We are talking about the pension of the lowest 1100 PLN at the moment, and the CUS calculated: in order to survive in Poland at a decent level, you need to have a minimum of 1400 PLN. So we see this imbalance very clearly. Of course, the report contains descriptions of the continuation and implementation of pre-planned projects related to social and professional activation, such as the Senior, the Senior, the Wigor and the ASOS programmes. It's a successful increase in the amount. I'll say it's positive that you can also see such a natural growth since 2010. e.g. number of care services, by 6.6% but it is normal with such a large increase in the number of people who need such services. Increase by 6.6% in the case of caring services, it is still far from enough. It's like this report wants to show that we're doing something. But the question of whether this is enough and whether we spend money well is not answered in this report. Poland needs a systematic, coherent policy towards senior citizens. First of all, let's look at your health. The figures already mentioned concerning geriatrics. Geriatrics in Poland do not exist. 460 geriatrics, most of which, in fact, the vast majority don't do geriatric practice or at least connect it to something else, because financing this practice is just a waste of money when it comes to NFZ. We can say that we have 900 geriatric beds. 900 beds - what is the indicator? Well, 1.5 beds out of 100,000. residents. Looking at Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, that's 75%. From here, we can tell you how far we stand off when it comes to medical care. Not to mention that there are staff shortages, poorly paid nursing staff, that there is no permanent and systematic remuneration and bonus of carers and training carers. Of course, the line to specialist doctors hasn't disappeared, I'd say they're growing more. Finally, statistics. I'm just gonna remind you of something that personally shocked me in the situation that we were in. 21 April, official data from the Ministry of Labour on Coronavirus. DPS: - 16 deaths and 319 infections. At the same time, a team of social workers, consisting of heads of social services houses at the Ministry of Labour, provides such data: 54 deaths and 1,100 infections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why is that? We can ask ourselves that question, but we'll find an answer in the Ministry's report. It's just that the ministry doesn't know how many social services houses they have. That's the basic answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u192	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Wheel of the Confederation of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u193	God bless you again. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish state here is constantly giving the exam. He's writing a test in front of some unknown committee, some kind of pedagogical council. He's climbing his fingers and writing papers like this report we're supposed to be judging here. I therefore declare in advance that there is nothing else to do next to the Confederation on this matter but to abstain. In fact, the biggest problem is that they waste, burn their precious time, those who are leading the nation, write such, repeat, work that doesn't change anything, bring nothing, discover no truth, and with no saving recipes for the future. However, if we rejected such a report, someone might mistakenly think that we are voting against people who have reached a mature age. No, on the contrary. The Confederation calls for them to be taken care of at last, that is to say, taking care of the Polish family. What does it mean to take care of the Polish family? Do not interfere in her life, do not rob the Polish family with fiscal exploitation, bureaucratic oppression. What does it mean to take care of the Polish family? It means taking care of your life. To keep us healthy, wise experience of our years our fathers, grandparents, aunts, uncles, uncles. The Old Poland had a whole array of beautiful names. I don't know if you know that his name wasn't his brother-in-law, his wife's brother-in-law, whore, or his sister's husband, Swak. Today we only have one brother-in-law in this place. Why did the old polish have so many beautiful names? Because the Polish family lived, because the Polish family lived strong not with Bismarck's pension and European grant, only strong entrepreneurialism of Poles, whose manifestations led to such a beautiful flourishing of the Republic, thanks to the fact that the state gave Poles peace, that it gave relatively more than anywhere else in the world of freedom and security, did not interfere with the apparatus of bureaucratic, prying, police coercion into the life of the Polish family. You have to go back to those roots. The Bismarck pyramid of the ZUS needs to be overthrown, and then unrobbed Polish families will be able to extend their lives with due respect and care to those who have just for us what they will not buy on Allegro or in the supermarket, that is, memory, knowledge from autopsy, unintermediated. These are the treasures of mankind - contact with an older man. It is also necessary to change, but not to conform the legal system of the Republic of Poland to the Eurokoloz, Neosovian madness, which is also expressed in such bureaucratic reporting by force, but by returning to its roots, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is already a waste of words for these successive quasi-regulatory acts that are moving here today through this House on this collective farm feeder, this legislative conveyor. It all has a common denominator. All of this has a common denominator: and this case of the CSO, and previously discussed projects. This is the Republic which, well, separates from its tradition, separates itself, has long been separated from its civilization root. If this Rzeczpospolita does not return to normality, will not stand up for itself, then no old or young people here will need advice, because there will be no one, because the Rzeczpospolita is curled up, demographically curls up, without any war, without occupation, without partitions. We descend from the historical scene: young and old. So the only thing you would have to do here: (The bell) carry out by this House a project legally guaranteeing the safety of human life. And small, and big. And young and old. And healthy, and those who are ill, hopefully only temporarily. Guarantee the safety of human life. Do what you can. After all, in two quarters of a project, to stop abortion by this House... Yes? Have one of the marshals come out, ask for the agenda to be completed. We're gonna vote it out, and then everyone's gonna be safer. Then we'll talk about real support for younger, older people. Old people, yes, in nursing homes, nursing homes... Mr President, we are nearing the end. ...exposed to a fatal risk by arbitrary police actions initiated by the crazy or treacherously motivated Minister of Health of Szumowski. This is bringing the common danger to the nation... Mr President, I would like you to leave now. ...not just those of us who have reached mature age. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. God bless all young and old! God bless you!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u194	Thank you very much. I would ask you not to hand out an invective towards one or the other Minister, because they may be sorry. Marshal, teach me what you call an insect. I don't think crazy Minister Szumowski would be happy with your words. Mrs Wanda Nowick from the Left Parliamentary Club begins a series of questions, and we have them reported 37. Mr. Marshal, how long? One minute. Not enough. 37 questions, and I'm still very tolerant about these things. Miss, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I will focus on my question on health issues and ask immediately: How many geriatrics actually work in their specialty? How many geriatric beds are available in Poland and how does the number of beds meet the actual needs of patients? To what extent are the voivodships secured in terms of the number of geriatric beds? In my district, in Gliwice, Zabrze, Bytom and Tarnowskie Mountains, the situation is very bad. There's no hospital bed with that profile. That is why I proposed in the budget debate to speed up work by increasing subsidies for the newly built Silesian Centre for the Prevention and Treatment of Environmental, Civilizational and Ages. Prof. Zbigniew Religion (The Bell) in Zabrze. My amendment was rejected by the PiS. Government information is very inadequate when it comes to the health of older people. Information about available geriatric health services is even funny. The government does not provide objective statistics on diseases, but subjective opinions of older people on their own health. As far as geriatrics are concerned, these data are very out of date, because from 2018, and pro-curative... Miss... ...because it's hard to see any systematic data on the situation across the country. I would like the problem of Polish geriatrics to be this far-reaching unsatisfactory report. However, I am afraid that the problem is the geriatrics themselves, whose weaknesses this report is trying to cover badly. Thank you. Please respond in writing, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The participation of older people in the demographic structure is increasing. This means completely different needs of citizens related to care and health care, as well as spending free time, maintaining activity. Today, people aged 60 or older are more in the world than ever before. The same is true in Poland. By 2050 almost 22% of the population will be at least 60 years old. It is a huge potential, but also a challenge, as even the spokesperson of patient rights notes. Seeing the needs and great problems affecting seniors, he sets up 2020 as Senior Year. On the other hand, an ageing society These are not only problems, as has so far been assessed, but also an opportunity for economic growth that can be converted into millions of euros per year and millions of jobs even on a European scale. That's so-called. Silver economy. But in order for people (the bell) to benefit from the fall of life, they must have financial resources to live in dignity. That is why I ask the government when it will finally take care of seniors and seniors, solving their real problems, when their pensions are worthy and sufficient, worthy of gray heads, so that they are not the most deprived group, and when they will no longer be treated as a mindless group that is bought before the elections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u198	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Since the Minister has not been concerned about the current situation of seniors in Poland in any way, I have a question about the current situation. You must have known - ladies and gentlemen also know - that the trends for pensioners who are at risk of poverty are getting worse. In 2015, 17% of senior citizens were at risk of poverty, and now one in five pensioners are at risk of poverty. The Minister and your rapporteur have calculated what you are giving them. It seems to me that the easiest and fairest formula would be that you would simply not take away from pensioners. Hence the question of a tax-free pension. What's your position? After all, in 2015 Andrzej Duda also announced similar solutions. The second question concerns the Health Centre 75+ (The Bell), a network of geriatric branches. In September, in October, in January, Andrzej Duda announced the creation of a network of geriatric troops in each district. You've had a lot of time to prepare. What have you done about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u200	Thank you very much for that question. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. One minute, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report shows the demographic changes that are taking place, which show the state of Poland's advanced ageing, while I am missing in this report the conclusions that would come out of this for practical actions of the government. It is assumed that in 2050 the population of 60+ people will be 40% of our society, and in 20 years the number of people who will be 80 years old or older will double. This number will double. As the population grows older, its singularisation continues. Meanwhile, elderly people living alone mostly live in blocks and have inadequate apartments to suit their needs. In Poland 1/3 of the apartments of the elderly have architectural barriers. I ask the first question: What measures does the government intend to take to counter this situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The case of digital exclusion. In Poland 60% people over the age of 60 have never used the Internet. Are there any training for seniors in new technologies? This is particularly important at the moment when most services are carried out remotely. I have dozens of other questions, but I don't have time to ask them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u202	That's right, Mrs. Messenger. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kotula from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An ageing society is one of the biggest challenges facing us today. It's hard to talk about it, not to mention geriatric doctors. However, there is only one paragraph in the report. We currently have 436 geriatric doctors in Poland, and 5 years ago there were 321. That's an increase of 115 doctors. That's right, it's crazy. In terms of the number of geriatric doctors per 100,000. The people of our country are placed at the end of the European table. Given that at the end of 2014 there were another 112 doctors during the training, the increase in fact does not appear to be significant. The geriatric availability rate is 100,000. The population in Poland is less than 1%. In Germany, this figure is 2,2% , in the Czech Republic - 2,1% , in Slovakia - 3,1% , and in Sweden - close to 8%. The ratio in Poland is 0.8%. Western Pomeranian Voivodeship has eight specialist doctors, including two in the course of specialization, and six geriatric beds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No, I'm sorry, the report says there's an improvement: the bed base has been increased from six geriatric beds to 26 beds. The second point that has not been raised in this information. There is no word on how many doctors - professionals of geriatrics actually provide benefits in this area. Therefore, I have two questions. How many geriatric doctors actually work in their specialty and what is your plan for a significant, rapid increase in the number of doctors needed in Poland? How many geriatric beds are available in Poland, and how does this number meet the current needs of patients? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u204	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paul Krutul from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the information there is no data - or I did not find - concerning geriatric branches, including beds available for the elderly. It is worth recalling that the NIK report on geriatric care indicated problems with this aspect some time ago. It can be assumed that there are currently slightly more than 800 geriatric beds. Even considering that the number of beds is increasing, this still does not satisfy the needs. In 2017 there were no geriatric beds in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship and Pomeranian voivodship. Has this situation changed? Please respond in writing. And to be consistent, we've got a dump on our birthday, Mr. Marshal, happy birthday. It was your birthday three days ago. [[Applause]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u206	Thank you, sir. I understand that in a delicate way you reminded me that geriatrics are ahead of me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes, it's true, before everyone, also before the marshal. Oh, my God. Risk group. Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Member of the Left Parliamentary Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, catastrophic health care for seniors, secondly, increasing poverty, especially among seniors living alone and living in the countryside, thirdly, underinvestment of health care in senior homes. These are the three main challenges that this report also discusses. When it comes to health care, 90% all cardiovascular deaths relate to people aged 60+. When it comes to those who are dying, 25% of deaths are related to malignant cancer in people aged 60+. The only way to do so is to significantly increase the expenditure on health care. The Left Messenger Club submitted such a project, increasing expenditures to 7.2% GDP. But what Care Looks like [[♪ The bell ♪]] health care in senior homes? The Ombudsman speaks of this in this way: However, in order to look, senior homes use the services of doctors who commute to patients for home visits mainly in three cases: first, to prescribe medications, second, to treat bedsores, thirdly to issue a death card. It's gotta be changed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Pawłowska, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u209	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since 2018, relatively little has been done to raise the standard of living of pensioners in Poland. Time for numbers. Theoretically, the average pension in the Lublin Voivodeship is slightly over 1600 PLN per hand. And how does that relate to reality? The lowest pension at the beginning of 2019 was only PLN 896 per hand. Unfortunately, it's impossible to survive for that kind of money. So I ask, when will the government finally come to their senses and listen to the Left? When are you going to stop manipulating numbers and listen to the Left's request for $1,600 minimum pension and drugs for 5 zlotys as a postulate for now and for this difficult time? These are the needs of pensioners, not another pre-election 13th pension. Every time you tell me that you're fulfilling your promises, you're introducing them exactly a month or two before the election. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, one more sentence. What about hospitals and medical facilities for the elderly? It is good that you admit it yourself, here I quote: the biggest problem in the field of geriatrics in Lublin is lack of staff. This is due to two reasons: firstly, there is no place to specialize, secondly, young doctors do not choose geriatrics. Then you add: in 2019 it is not planned to introduce radical changes in the area of expansion of existing and the creation of new establishments within the public health service. And that is the promise you have meticulously fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u210	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about people over the age of 60 today. Today, in an epidemic situation, in an isolation and quarantine situation, people are usually referred to as patients, DPS subjects, people particularly at risk of infection, people with chronic diseases, people who should be isolated for their own good. But people older than or around the age of 60 are often also active persons. Over 1 million people over the age of 60 are employees and employees. In today's difficult situation in the labour market, these people are particularly at risk. My parliamentary office is increasingly being visited by people about 60 years of age with reasonable concerns that they will soon lose their jobs because of government recommendations to isolate such persons. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the government will accept (the bell) the proposal of Presidential candidate Robert Biedron to extend the period of pre-retirement protection from 4 to 10 years before the retirement age. Such a procedure would protect these people, help them to survive in this particularly difficult situation for them today and save them additional stress from losing their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u212	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the order of appearances is consistent with the order of applications. It's not. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry... Ladies and gentlemen, today has been accepted since this morning, and therefore, because I am the fifth Vice-Marshal to hold the sitting, I am reading what I have in front of me. The Civic Platform will be coming soon and everyone will be happy. New customs. Catherine Ueberhan, Member of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the report, the ageing process in Wielkopolska will be slower than in other regions of the country. However, this does not mean that the needs of people in Wielkopolska are smaller or different. However, according to government data, as regards the number of doctors with geriatric specialties in the region, in 2018 only 5 doctors did this profession. There are also nurses with this specialty and nurses with long-term or palliative care specialties. So what does access to specialists in Wielkopolska look like after 65 years of age? How long is the waiting time for a specialist's doctor in this group? Does the number of geriatric clinics in Wielkopolska provide access to a specialist within the area of residence? What about rehab? Do people aged 65 years after specialized treatments have access to rehabilitation services? How many seniors with these diseases, and how long do they expect such rehabilitation benefits? Are there rehabilitation units at risk of closure in Wielkopolska and if so, for what reasons? I'd like a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Coronavirus has highlighted the problem of the DPS, which has been known for a long time, but has always been pushed sideways in discussions on the situation of the elderly. Today we see clearly the great threat to the health and well-being of seniors being underfunded by DPS, which lack medical staff, carers, carers and financial resources. That's what we need to talk about out loud. A small level of spending on long-term care in an ageing society translates into insufficient development of many forms of aid. Their availability has been restricted. We have difficulties in meeting quality standards as well as, and let us be clear about the level of employment and working conditions of workers in this sector. They work a lot for minimum wage. Also now, in these difficult times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Poland we also have one of the lowest rates among OECD countries in terms of the number of employees in the long-term care sector in relation to the number of people aged 65+. There is no doubt that the situation in the DPS requires immediate and comprehensive improvement. Hence my question: How and how will the financial resources be transferred to the necessary reform of the DPS? What actions will be taken within this framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u216	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u217	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to know how you plan to raise the lowest pensions in Poland. 1200 zł This is what today most often guests in Polish houses. Those who earn, get and have to keep up for 1,200 zlotys please ask if they are able to survive for 1,200 zlotys. Not to mention the infamous record - 4 gr. Retirement - 4 gr. A year ago, when the Left appealed: there can be no such injustice in Poland, you said: we will settle this. So once again, I say, "Where is the pension of $1,600?" Where's the interview, and the president promised it a week ago about internship pensions? The Left Project in the Seym. This is the responsibility for pensioners, this is the responsibility for seniors? It's a lack of responsibility. That's convicting them to death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u218	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u219	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, How much nerve does it take to boast about the successes of senior politics on 460 pages, when every day we receive tragic news from environments where seniors live, when every day in social services homes, where there are older people, there is another outbreak of plague, where people die, where abandoned quarantine staff cry out for help because they are sick? How much nerve does it take to accept this report as enthusiastically as did your club rep Law and Justice? And why didn't you join these 460 pages, Minister, the report of the Supreme Chamber of Control, which speaks of it (the bell), like the voivodeships, your voivodeships, because from your term of office, Law and Justice, they didn't care about the condition of social services houses and under their eyes, the lack of an eye was working several hundred such facilities? How much nerve did it take to hold this debate today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u220	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u221	Mr. Marshal, 100 years in good health! Thank you very much. I take that as a commitment. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why is it as good in these papers as it is in fact very bad? 276,000. Seniors living in extreme poverty. And you're not gonna believe this is the report of the Noble Pack and the data from 2018. In extreme poverty, that means that these people had less than PLN 19 per day at their disposal. Sad, isn't it? My question: How are you going to help these people get out of extreme poverty? Why is the number of people living in extreme poverty still increasing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u222	Thank you, Member, for this question. I would like to invite Mrs Daria Gosek-Piołek from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The latest report from NIK shows that there is no control over those operating without DPS or ZOL permits. Pandemic shows that the staff is overworked, many people work several jobs, and the whole system keeps on strong women: nurses and babysitters. What's DPS and ZOL surveillance like, what's the support of people working there? Well, it doesn't look like he's really gone. We need a remodeling of the care system for the elderly, people with disabilities. Big piers for hundreds of people are bad models, bad ideas. Don't you know how to do that? We will answer you this: We need assisted housing that allows independent life for the elderly. We need personal assistance. We need a system where an elderly person gets support from the local community, not isolated. We need systemic support for family carers, to cover the health insurance of unemployed people taking care of the elderly 24 hours a day (the bell) or the disabled. We need a system where people who care for people with disabilities or older people get decent money. We need a remodeling system, not the kind of powder you're offering us. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u224	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Jakub Rutnicki from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about 2018, but the drama is really happening right now as far as the DPS is concerned, and this situation isn't gonna solve quickly. We would also look forward to the ideas of a systemic solution to the problem of the widespread Coronavirus. Brag about Chinese masks, or maybe it's worth investing in Polish technical thought, disinfectant gates, tests for employees and guesthouses. In your opinion, 2018 is a year of records when it comes to senior policy, but I don't think it's about such records. Let's go over it. 2018 is an increase of 20% of extreme poverty - behind the Central Statistical Office. The year 2018 - behind the Central Statistical Office - is 414 thousand. Deaths. A record year in terms of deaths. There was no such death after World War II. Mrs PiS said the seniors are alive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's getting longer. Better, no longer. Behind the Central Statistical Office - in 2018 the average life of Polish seniors is reduced. These are facts. Look into your eyes and start really and really helping seniors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u226	Thank you, sir. I would like to thank you and invite my friend, Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! No hundreds of pages of the report will obscure reality. The assessment of the real relationship of the PiS government to seniors brings life, and as in the lens shows a pandemic. Yes, sir. I'll use an example. Racibórz - the only district hospital transformed by arbitrary decision into a single name. Evacuate e.g. The geriatrics department. Where? E.g. to the centre in Chernichów, where more than 100 patients... Their tests showed a positive result for coronavirus. Who will bear moral but also financial responsibility, as I think, in the end, or maybe criminally for the actions of this type and omission, and the endangerment of the lives and health of these people? Same hospital, specialized clinics with him, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are used mainly by seniors who have been deprived of this assistance. Who will bear financial or, perhaps, criminal responsibility for the failure to meet the standards of access, including temporary, to cardiology, to dialysis, to oncology aid? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u228	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We would like to say that in social services homes it is not as beautiful as you said Marshal Czarzasty, because what is happening at the moment in social services, in care facilities 24/7, is the result of past negligence. Social workers are not the only ones who are missing. There are no physiotherapists, there are no dietists, but mostly nurses. And that's why these nurses work at the same time at the hospital, at the DPS, or at two DPSs, because only a nurse at the social services home can administer medication to a resident. No one else can do it. To counteract the spread of the virus, what has been done? There's been a ban on work in two institutions. Is that the solution, ladies and gentlemen? Why does the government, Minister, defend itself so much against compulsory testing, testing for people working in social services, in senior care facilities, disabled people, elderly people? Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that so much of a cost? Is it worth sacrificing human life and health? Why is it that no mandatory testing is carried out for residents who are returning home from hospitals because they had to be in this hospital because of an important procedure or surgery? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u230	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's about 300,000. Older people live on the verge of minimum existence. Seniors are the group of Poles who are the poorest. The cost of living is increasing at an alarming rate, but often seniors in retirement after paying their bills are not even enough for food. You tricked the retirees, promising free meds, and you pulled out of it fast. Not only do you fund penny pension benefits, you still charge them a tax. When will the pension tax be abolished? A one-off pension does not increase the pension base on a permanent basis, so it does not improve the financial situation of pensioners who, in order to survive, save as much as they can, even reversed mortgage loans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2021, there will be 10 million Poles who have exceeded 60 years of age in Poland. Minister! Seniors are looking forward to concrete action, not just telling them that they are a priority. What is being done for them so far is far too little. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u232	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, in addition to these important things relating to the financial situation, the social situation of this very large group of seniors, which we are talking about here, is also the issue of an infrastructure approach. We are aware, I think, that the requirements for infrastructure taking into account the needs of seniors will be quite different than for ordinary people, I would say: the average citizens of age who need a different approach. And the question to the ministry: Can the government, and when will the government finally take action to adapt infrastructure to the needs of seniors or people, be said more broadly, with limited mobility? And I am speaking here in a context from the proverbial green light on the pedestrian transition, so that seniors do not have to run through these transitions, to the requirements for even housing cooperatives (the bell), even to communities, even to local authorities, which should create such infrastructure that meets the requirements of seniors. And what if there are adequate plans, financial programmes for the creation of such infrastructure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u234	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One would like to say that the PiS government has a strong tendency to be self-absorbed, even in areas where the situation is bad, if not tragic. This is the case with the situation of disabled people, elderly people. There are no caretakers for older people or places in DPS. The situation in the DPS, especially now, at the time of Cortipinus, is simply tragic. We know from the NIK report that this is largely due to the lack of State supervision over the DPS. There are also no geriatrics. But the full disregard for older people, the disabled, too, is borne out by a fact, what you have done in relation to the mess in correspondence voting, in the next two COVID laws. First of all, you introduced the right to vote in correspondence for 60+ persons in the shield 1.0 so that this rule can be discarded in the shield 2.0. This shows that you do not really have any long-term policy. I was gonna ask you when the actual program was gonna come up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] helping and improving the quality of life of older people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u236	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing we're debating seniors. It's very important. Unfortunately, you're forgetting the real needs of seniors. We should remind you that you've been against anti-prevention testing for seniors. Why? Probably because of the fear that the results of these preventive tests would indicate specific diseases that would need to be treated. Next line. You're pretending there's no problem with the DPS. Former Minister, and now Marek Suski and Vice-President Arthur Standowicz arrive in my hometown in Radom, holding a conference and repel a great success, talking about the transfer of funds. Only no one, ladies and gentlemen, is saying that these resources will be received by the voivodeships to the DPS residents who live there who were checked in before 2004. What about the others? How do you want to help the others? The fact that it was dropped on the local government... Self-governments do a lot of things for you today. They keep an eye on hospital supplies, and they keep an eye on this (the bell) so that others can live normally during the epidemic, and the state still divides Poles, you divide into those who were checked into the DPS before 2004 and those who were checked in after 2004.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u238	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u239	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have around 800 social services houses in Poland. In recent weeks, many of them have experienced the most horrible dramas we can imagine. As a Member, I received many alarming and shocking messages. Older people were deprived of medical care, died alone, and loved ones could not get any information about their health. Therefore, I would like to thank journalists and journalists who are making this subject public. Thank you for asking, even though the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy so arrogantly responds to their questions. Therefore: What action was taken by the government before 1 March this year.? Why did the first financial or material resources go to welfare homes only on April 7th? What else must happen for you to take seriously the subject of an ageing society? We will all be seniors someday, which is why decent old age should be one of the priorities of this country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u240	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the report, which consists of 456 pages containing above all dry facts, we have only 2.5 pages of conclusions and recommendations, and very general. We will learn from them, among others, that social policy towards the elderly is consistently implemented in Poland. So many words on paper. And what does it look like in practice? Let's take a look. Mazovia during the epidemic. At one point, half of the number of cases of coranavir in Mazowsze was from the DPS. The first measures from the voivodeship arrived only on 7 April. Medical personnel often did not have a basic protection against infection, and that's why we witnessed so many drastic relations with institutions in Wierzbica, Tomczyc, from Bobrowicka in Warsaw and many, many others. Hence my questions: What is the actual numerical state of disease and death in the DPS? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are the seniors staying there safe? Do they have guaranteed care? So far, everything shows that this wonderful situation exists only on 456 pages of the report, not in reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u242	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u243	Mr. Private Mr. Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to point out that I'm a marshal for men. Exactly, Mr. Marshal! Yeah, I know. Mr. Marshal, of course. The government treats seniors instrumentally. He gives money before the election and promises stars from heaven. These people trust you. You buy their voices, but their fate doesn't get any better. Perhaps it is high time, instead, to activate seniors, to encourage - not to force, but to encourage - as much as possible professional activity, because it is often the work that keeps these people alive. Maybe it's time to reorganize care in our country for older people, because it is a completely neglected market. It's hard to find a guardian for an elderly person now. Very often women, the daughters of older people, have to give up their professional work because unfortunately, in our country it is women who have to take care of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They give up their jobs and take care of their parents. Of course, this causes losses for you, but also a deterioration in the comfort of life. The older man does not push elbows, he is often ashamed to ask for help, and you are perfidiously using it, giving once a year an additional 1,200 PLN, and you think the case is solved. It's not. This isn't a country for old people. It's time to change that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u244	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The measure of a well-functioning state and social solidarity is how older, sick and disabled people are treated. Today, the government's only idea in this area is to completely isolate older people, lock them in their homes, isolate them from help, medical care, rehabilitation. And what happens in welfare homes calls for vengeance to heaven. To this day, DPS employees and their pensioners are not tested for coronavirus. What's next? What ideas do you have in this regard? What do you want to do to help older people locked in homes that need medical attention? There are ideas that make good use of municipalities, e.g. the municipality of Lublin, like telecareka, i.e. the wristband of life that the senior wears, which monitors his health and alarms in situations of life and health threats to the relevant services. This is real help, this is real support. A teleoband like this should be worn by every senior whose health requires it. And that's what the money should be for. For cities, villages and towns. And here's what I'm asking: a telebelt for every senior whose health demands it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u246	The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the information of the Council of Ministers on the situation of older people in Poland for 2018, we read that 60% people aged 65+ have never used the Internet. In addition, 80% not using the senior network did not feel the need to use the network, and 71% declared a lack of skills as an obstacle. Only 9% did not use the Internet for economic reasons. I find this data disturbing. Of course, these are figures for 2018, but we should learn from the current pandemic situation and the limitations that seniors will live in for a long time. Therefore, I ask the question: Are additional measures already planned to help seniors learn how to use the computer and the Internet? And if so, what are the actions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's worth taking seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u248	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! What is the most important thing to all of us in life? What do we wish for and others in the first place by making wishes? We wish you health. And you can provide us with several reports, you can have up to 400 pages or 500 pages, just like the one we are talking about today, but you will not escape responsibility for the collapse of the Polish health system and for the collapse of the Polish geriatrics. In Poland we have only 900 geriatric beds. We only have 430 specialist doctors in this field. We've got one-and-a-half seats for $100,000. inhabitants, when the average in the European Union is 25.75 seats per 100,000. persons. You hide this information in this report, because there is only half a page about the Polish geriatrics - in the entire report, which counts 460 pages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I ask, when will you start repairing the Polish health system and geriatric system. In the coming years, the number of seniors in Poland will increase to over 13 million. Senior citizens will account for more than 40% the entire population. And I have another question: Why is it that the 2018 report entered the Sejm in December 2019 and we deal with it in May 2020 when some of the data contained in it is already obsolete? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u250	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u251	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We've heard a report about a lot of records. You could enjoy it and be happy, because it is so good for the oldest inhabitants of our city, but most of the actions that you are proud of are actions for which the local government is primarily responsible. I know that very well, because as vice president of the city for nine years, I was personally responsible for senior policy in the city. You're bragging about third-century universities, you're bragging about activating seniors, but you're not saying much about what really depends on government policy. I urge you to take care of the most important matters, namely health. Geriatrics, social services houses - these are the challenges that we face, these are actions that the government will not do without real government support. And that is also what I call for, and I ask for written information. The point is for you to respond to all charges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which appeared in this respect in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Take care of what you really need to do. I call for billions for geriatrics, not for public television. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u252	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u253	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, a summary of recent years in the area of senior policy is the question of the government's approach to the Warsaw programme "Bilans 70- and 80-year-old." When the President of Warsaw reserved over PLN 2 million for research for Warsaw seniors, the agency subordinate to Minister Szumowski wrote a critical remark: the over-detectability of individual disease units will deepen the difficulties in accessing NFZ benefits. The Agency of the Ministry of Health wrote that Warsaw cannot implement this program. And one last thing. The question of limiting workers' rights: for women over the age of 60, for men over the age of 65. Who gave the government this evil idea so that the employer could fire the person (the bell) who acquired the right to retirement? This is what you've pulled out of, but we're getting information that in the next shield, in the 4.0 shield, you want to go back to those regulations. I ask the Minister to comment on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u254	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u255	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! A while ago, a saleswoman disappeared from my favorite traffic newsstand. I ask her friend, what happened? She had to give up her job because she had older parents and she had to take care of them. In Zachodniopomorskie, which I represent, the daily social services house is waiting for more than six months, a stationary social services house is waiting for more than two years. If a patient has mental health problems, he's been waiting for over three years. So I ask the honourable states - instead of reading us these tables here, tell us how many social services houses, new social services houses, will rise this year, how much in the next year, how much in the next year. A person who seeks to stay at a social security home must answer several dozen questions during an environmental interview (the bell) and sign several papers. When will this procedure be improved and we move away from this unnecessary bureaucracy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u256	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna start my speech with a question. Minister: What resources and how much has the government spent in 2018 on improving the lives of seniors, financing and co-financing programmes on many aspects of their lives? I repeat, in 2018, because that's what we're talking about. Reading with understanding of order, the schedule of today's sitting should be crucial. So easily and repeatedly, the Member of the Civic Coalition has said: "How much hypocrisy must be given, how much nerve do you have to have?" Yeah, how much nerve and cynicism does it take to criticize the government that it doesn't support seniors and that it doesn't care about their lives? This information, this report for 2018, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, is not (the bell) virtual data. This is data, as the predecessors did, collective, that's what happens in local communities, that's activity. not only government administration, but also local authorities. And one more thing... The question will now be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal extended by half a minute. Thank you for extending the time for all of us by dividing Members from different options. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u258	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! On the part of the Members of the opposition, many lies have fallen here, from this speaker, and this must be corrected. First of all, there's not enough doctors, including specialists. Let me remind you that it is the Minister of the Civic Platform - PSL, the Minister of Health, who previously with the SLD, that has drastically reduced admissions to medical studies. The Government of Law and Justice, the Minister of Health from this started that he increased the admission limit for studies. We're rebuilding it with mosquitoes, but it takes years for us to have more doctors. Let me remind you that last year 100% The nurses have taken away the right to work, which means that nurses want to work in the profession, return to the profession, and that means that the pay has improved, and the working conditions have improved. The Left Members, on the other hand, are thundering over the bad situation in social services homes. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't it the Leszek Miller government in 2004 that transferred the running of social assistance houses to local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have a short memory. And the question? There are no government DPS. Minister, how much has the financing of senior policy increased since 2015 compared to previous years? What's the order? are these amounts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u259	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Bogusław Wontor, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u260	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question. What kind of government has the idea of counseling seniors in rural areas who are isolated and alone? There are many small towns where even today the bus does not reach. These people have difficult access to doctors, social services and live in isolation, in solitude in these towns. How does the government see the solution to this problem? Second question. When will there be an increase in the number of places in care and care facilities? Here, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House said how long it is to wait for a place in care and medicine facilities, i.e. over 3 years. And it's not cut short. Another thing. Can the welfare system separate the senior group 60+ and increase the income criterion? These older people need more help (the bell) and for them this criterion could be abolished. And one last question. Because of the epidemic, admissions to the DPS have been suspended. How does the government see the solution to this problem? Here you can point out that you can do tests for Coronavirus, because that explains it. But they're done. And once the test has been established, Mr... But you do not accept these places. I'm talking about how it is in my voivodship. No DPS accepts because they say there's a ban on admission. Thank you. No, once we've determined the test results.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u261	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The data presented in today's information strongly enchants reality. Carefully prepared material would also point to the problems faced by older people and suggest solutions to them. The material does not read about the increasing queues to specialist doctors, lack of access to modern treatments and promised by the government and president of the program "Medical Fund," which was supposed to amount to PLN 2.7 billion and be dedicated to the treatment of oncology patients, and such as we know there are many older people. The information also lacks data on the latest NIK inspection. I ask you to answer the question: What measures will the government take to ensure the safety of pensioners, elderly people in social care homes, also in social care homes operating without the required permission? What is the government planning to do in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u263	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to answer my question in writing, and it will concern the safety of seniors, the safety of fraudsters. That was the situation. It's bad, and now it looks tragic. Two years ago, exactly in 2018, I interpelled on this matter, because several people came to me, and they were deceived, and those against whom were attempts to deceive them and to extort money from them. The police answered: little social harm, we don't deal with such things. In my report, I tried to find an answer. There are programs, as I've been told. What is the effectiveness of these programmes? We don't have any information on that. I mean. that the methodology for preparing this text is: let's describe reality in general, without concrete and without effectiveness, without effect. One example: we find in the report that banks respect seniors. I visited several banks at the time. A little information, maybe a twelve, maybe a fourteen. Believe me, a horse with a row from someone who can read it. The situation has changed diametrically and adversely for seniors. People are locked in their homes. They're hungry to talk, so any conversation with a crook is some sort of opportunity to make the day more attractive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, these are very easy loots. Older people are taken away from life savings. And again, at the last minute, the question of the gentleman who called -- he was tried to extort money -- two or three weeks ago. The police replied, "We don't deal with such things at all. So the question is to you and I ask you to answer in writing. First of all, what is the extent of extortion today when quarantine and pandemic are underway? What's the scale? How many people report and how many criminals are caught? What about this situation? Does the government take any special measures to protect older people and their property from frauds? Thank you. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u265	Thank you, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u266	I bow for the second time. Please answer me in writing, how many older people, however you have officially specified these categories, have come to that world in recent weeks and months, because they have closed the doors of the nearest hospitals, declaring them contagious, and had to go for example. to the neighboring voivodship and maybe they didn't make it. Are there statistics like that? I do not doubt, because statistics are one of those activities, which certainly take the most time to all the departments of the Republic of Poland post-peerel. Second question. How many people have suffered more severe, possibly incurable illnesses without going on a ride between hospitals? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a cliché: bedsores. Because their beds were not allowed for their loved ones, families, by introducing crazy sharpenings, of course, under the pretext of coronapanics, pandemic psychosis. How many people have cost their lives in the last days, weeks, months of carrying out these solutions, which, to be honest, it is not very clear who dictated, and you are leading the minister, superoberhiperturbospecminister Szumowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u267	Thank you very much for asking the question. I would like to inform you that the list of Members has been exhausted and that the questions asked will be answered by Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate, although it largely did not refer to the material we presented today, because we are presenting information on the elderly for 2018. She's moved... The debate was about today's situation. There was neither on our part nor on my part, in my speech, any boasting of this information, but the presentation of this information. If the High House agrees, and there is an author of the bill in the Chamber, so as not to prepare such information, then we will gladly give it up and then we will have a debate. The information was intended to show the activities of the Ministry, local governments, NGOs. If this information isn't necessary for anyone, let's give it up. I think it would be a shame after all. [[Applause]] Bravo! However, after these voices, it is necessary to consider whether this information is needed. Or not. As I say, the law was adopted in 2015 and is consistently implemented. As far as the deadline for the bill is concerned, it is not up to our ministry, it is up to the Sejm, which sets the time limits for considering such a point. And now just a little bit about what happened here today, about the DPS, because, as I'm saying, there were very few questions for the information itself. On 16 April there was information provided by Minister Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Minister explained in detail the issues concerning the DPS. I can now give you the most recent data I've received on the issue of infection in social services homes. And social services houses, let me remind you, are self-government units, not government units, these are self-government units. At 824 units, as far as welfare homes are concerned, at the moment 29 people were found to be infected with the coronavirus. This applies to 500 people, representing less than 14% The population of these 29 centers, and on the scale of all DPS, where the population is 80,000, is less than 0.62%. So it's not a shocking scale, but of course that's the problem we're all struggling with. I think we're aware that this is a situation... But these actions, which we have been taking since the beginning of March, i.e. issuing instructions, then organising additional equipment, were intended to significantly prevent these problems as far as the issue of DPS is concerned. As far as resources are concerned, I will mention just a few examples. Support for the Senior+ programme - in previous coalitions it was PLN 30 million, we spend PLN 80 million. Then ASOS - it was PLN 10 million, we allocate PLN 40 million. The "Leks 75+' programme is continued. The implementation of the 75-plus care programme - an additional several million zlotys in the programme. As far as pensions are concerned, the lowest pension has increased by almost 40% over the three to four years. Today, the lowest pension is 1,200 PLN. And other, the lowest pension benefits have also increased. As far as geriatrics and geriatric care are concerned, Mrs Borowiak has already talked about this. Of course we don't... To be a geriatrician, you have to finish medical studies, specialization, etc. The increase in geriatric doctors is as follows: from 380 in 2017 to 436 in 2018. This is a process. We hope that through our actions, the actions of the Minister of Health who has launched specializations, these doctors will arrive. So that these are the actions that we are taking in this area, of course, knowing that the situation is difficult. There was a question about the programs. Mr Suchoń - I do not see him - asked that question. There is an entire accessibility programme to help remove barriers: PLN 23 billion by 2023. In our resort, these are four programmes, including the availability of social services, personal assistant to a disabled person, a coherent social policy for accessibility. These programmes are being implemented. Support programmes are also announced. We did not talk about this because there was no longer any possibility, but in 2018 we introduced support for independent people, which also affects older people to a greater extent. We were talking about information for 2018, we are already preparing information for 2019 (the bell), so that on the basis of this information we can look for solutions when it comes to the situation of older people. There was a question by Mrs Burzyńska about the measures. If we were to count these resources, we could also add to that, for example. the payment of the 13th pension, the total amount of which was PLN 11 800 million. But that's in 2018. As far as other measures are concerned, we are talking about billions of zlotys that go to seniors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u269	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Senior Policy requests the adoption of the information contained in print No 66. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. So I'm announcing a time-out. 17. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 37 hours 17 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. Since we are going to vote in a moment, we will proceed with the quorum check first. I therefore ask all Members present in the plenary room and those who are in the other chambers, as well as those who are connected to us remotely, to press any button to verify the quorum. You're welcome. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, please refrain from commenting, okay? You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir. I know who started it. But I'm asking you to be serious, okay? Your marshal, the seriousness is not here because of us. We see Mr. Glinski shaking about his phone. Ladies and gentlemen, 458 Members are taking part in the deliberations. I therefore find a quorum. We return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 349-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to submit a report to the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws contained in prints No 342, 349 and 349-A. The project submitted aims to simplify the procedures for payment of electronic tolls for these roads. Therefore, in the assessment of applicants, it will have a positive impact on reducing administrative burdens on the part of entrepreneurs while implementing modern technologies in the way these charges are collected. I would like to stress that such solutions are already being applied by carriers in the SENT transport and turnover monitoring system, which has been independently designed and implemented by the National Tax Administration and is today one of the key tools that this administration uses. The same choice of modern technology and satellite positioning and data transmission to collect electronic tolls and tolls for motorways charged to carriers, identical to SENT solutions, justifies entrusting these charges to the head of the National Tax Administration, and this will promote consolidation of danin collection and charges in reducing the costs of the Treasury related to the implementation of this system. I would like to remind you that revenues to the National Road Fund from electronic tolls for motorways amount to almost PLN 2 billion for 2019. The system is designed only for journeys on toll stretches of roads - currently less than 4 000. km - and only those vehicles which will be subject to the charge. Thus, after leaving the motorway section or the toll road, the data of such a vehicle will not be processed. Nine amendments were tabled at second reading, some of which were recommended by the committee to accept. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u271	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 349. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection in full of the draft Print Act 349 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 229 was for, 231 against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the first amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. I've filed a formal motion, Your Marshal. Formal conclusion. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal asked for it in writing, so it's in writing. Your handwriting is being deciphered. [[Game in the O.R.]] You have an expert, you can always ask. I can't hear you, Marshal. Have a seat, sir. I'll be right with you. Thank you very much. 459 Members voted. For - 397, 2 against, 60 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Formal conclusion. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Braun. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u272	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High - still a bill - Izbo! Request for an adjournment to convene the Senior Convention in order to judge the admission of questions before voting in this part of our deliberations. In case your marshal doesn't decide to allow any questions, now I'm gonna ask you about this bill that's supposed to be processed, it's a great benefit, which is a tracking system for all road transport drivers. Is it true - whether it is true - as one of the senior officials of the Ministry informed, who pilot this project, that the State at first provides for the obligation for drivers to benefit from this benefit so-called. Tire in road transport, and ultimately you want us all to put on this electronic leash, neck collar? Is that the purpose of your actions, or is that the perspective that the current government is drawing? A request for a break, then. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u273	Thank you, sir. I'm not gonna announce a break because the next part of your motion was to call the Seniors Convention. This is my right and I won't call the Senior Convention. I will therefore not put this proposal to the vote. We're going to consider... But there was a request for a recess formally requested. For a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention. For a break to call the Senior Convention. So I would like to explain to him that the convening of the Senior Convention is my right. I'm not gonna call the Seniors Convention, and that's why we don't need a break. We're going to consider... You're acting informally. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a half-minute break. It'll be faster than the vote. Bravo. Bravo. Thank you very much. Wait a minute. Let's move on to the second amendment. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal and the 3rd amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. For -411, no one was against, 49 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the fourth amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected... 1. The minority's proposal for this vote has become pointless, as has Amendment 3. We move on to the examination of Amendment 4. Mrs. Marshal! Formal conclusion. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Formal conclusion. Smile, maybe something will work. I'm waiting, Your Marshal, for the opportunity to justify my motion. I don't want to waste a second of precious time, which is why I'm standing by. Thank you very much, Marshal. 459 Members voted. 224 was in favor, 235 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Formal conclusion, Mr Boris Budka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for adjournment until 11 May. This will be a time for your consideration. Please don't spoil Poland. Please, don't try to make another coup in May without having any right to do that. [[Applause]] You have created a huge chaos, and you are responsible for the fact that the elections of May 10 will not be held. Today you wake up and try to take advantage of the social discovery, as a fellow Member called... Mr President, we are at a different point. ...the head of the Constitutional Tribunal to usurp the right to change the election date. You can't change the timing of the elections once, and you can finally understand that. [[Applause]] Today is the time to sit down and work together on a compromise to prepare a fair and safe solution for Poles. We've been asking, we've been appealing to you for a dozen weeks. The elections in May aren't going to be held, and you finally realized it. And today is the time... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...to do it in accordance with the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u275	Mr President, we are at the road point, it is the Road Act, not the elections. But the formal conclusion... It is worth remembering this because we are in the middle of a vote. Your Marshal... I hear you, sir. I hear you. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Oh, that's smart. We are looking for a way out of this crisis. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 223 was for, 235 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the second minority proposal and the same 5 amendments. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Formal conclusion. In a minute. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd minority proposal and the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 224 was in favor, 235 against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion for minorities and the amendment rejected. There you go, Mr Braun - a formal proposal once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u276	You do not want to allow questions before this vote, and yet I feel it is my duty to state why the Confederation, when voting in favour of amendments which are mostly saving something there, will vote against the adoption of this project, including it in the systemic shape of the Republic of Poland. It is precisely because this chaos, which to a large extent you owe to your own decisions and omissions - I am turning to the parliamentary majority, here today modestly represented - you are trying to save by murder. The Minister of Security, who sits modestly on government benches... Mr President, this was supposed to be a formal proposal. ...just now... Mr President, the formal proposal you have made in writing... Will your marshal give me the time that your marshal now takes away from my justification? No. You have time for a formal motion. This is not a formal conclusion. You try to establish a leash, a collar, an electronic shepherd you build for the Polish people. And the Minister of Security claimed that from this system... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. We proceed with the examination of the 6th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. ...have data transfer concerning the movement of Polish drivers. We'll proceed with the vote. Why? For what? Vote against the whole thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u277	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 224 - for, 235 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the third minority proposal and the same 7th amendment. The adoption of these proposals will render the 8th amendment futile. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority proposal and the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 225 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion for minorities and the amendment rejected. Let's move on to the 8th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 458 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the ninth amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 223 - for, against - 235, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 349, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 236 - for, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Road Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 351-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymański to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u278	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws in print No 207. The 11th Sejm meeting, held on 5 May 2020, i.e. yesterday, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 351 to the Committee on Public Finance in order to examine the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendment at its meeting today, asks the High Sejm to reject the amendment and adopt Print Act 351. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u279	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law on printing No 351. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the only amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to the Article. 144b of the Tax Order. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 223 - for, 236 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 351 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 447 for, 1 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the circles of rural hostess. The additional committee report shall be in print No 352-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Robert Telus to present an additional report to the committee. There isn't. No, we're connecting with you remotely, which is why we're waiting. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u280	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Ministers! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government bill amending the law on the circles of rural hostess, print no. 336. It is a law that is expected by the circles of rural hostesses, because it is a good direction of action. Thanks to this direction, which has taken over the rule of law and justice, the rural hostel's circles are subject to economic activity. This law allows for the transfer of further funds, 40 million PLN, to the groups of rural hostesses. The Prime Minister promised this money, and it is thanks to this bill that he keeps his word. This, Prime Minister, is to keep your word, for which we thank the Prime Minister, the whole government, and thank Minister Gembicka. During the second reading of the clubs PSL-Kukiz15 and the Left... [[Disruption of reception]] The Internet couldn't take it. ...she's looked at these amendments. I regret that there were no applicants to justify these amendments at the committee meeting. This is, in my opinion, a precedent that there was no one to justify the amendments that had been tabled. One of the amendments tabled by the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15, according to your patron from the Legal Office, is not part of the submission and no one has presented the amendments to the Left either. I can't hear the Member's words entirely, Your Marshal. I'm very sorry. You're the one who's talking. You can't hear me. The Commission recommends the High House to reject all these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-sejm-11-4.u281	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 352. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. We proceed with the examination of the 1st amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 87 for, 238 against, 133 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of the 2nd amendment. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd and 3rd amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 212 - for, 245 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 352 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 448 - for, 4 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 6 May this year. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 7 May 2020 at 7 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 40]]
