ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please take your seats. I open the fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Richard Świlski as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. I inform you that the Sejm at its fifth meeting on 13 February 2020 rejected the Senate's resolutions rejecting: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees; the Act amending the Act on State Sanitary Inspection and some other laws; the Act amending the Act amending the Law on Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, the Act amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws. [[Applause]] The Sejm stood at the height of the task. In addition, the Sejm at the same meeting rejected all the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners, to the Act amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation and Renovation, and adopted all the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Law In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the second meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the third Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. I propose that the first point of the draft agenda be considered, although the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the Budget Law for 2020 has been provided at a later date than set out in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that item 2 be deleted from the agenda, i.e. information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July On December 2019, the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union, and the next meeting. The proposal is based on the request of Minister Konrad Szymański to postpone the consideration of this point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Malecka-Libera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the High House to vote on the proposal that I am proposing to the High House to extend the agenda of this Senate meeting to inform the Minister for Health on the epidemiological situation related to the spread of Coronavirus. I think the situation is tense and interesting. Not only for the High House, but also for our society We should listen here to the Minister's information about both the preventive measures that are being taken and the financing and the launch of the Crisis Act. I ask the High House to vote on this proposal. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u3	Thank you very much. Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, This issue has been discussed by the Senate Health Committee, and we have discussed this issue. That's one thing. Secondly, it seems crucial that such proposals should be made by representatives of the parliamentary club who sit in the Seniors Convention. Such proposals should be made at the meeting of the Seniors Convention. It is not enough for the marshal to accept such a request, but it is required... The mandatory requirement is that 10 days should be allowed to submit such requests for something to be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u5	Thank you very much. I understand that I should treat the senator's voice as an objection. Yes? Mr, Marshal, yes, of course this is a voice of opposition, because we discussed this in detail at the meeting of the Senate Health Committee and all the members of the High House were able to attend this meeting. Is Senator Ad vocem, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u6	Yes, of course. This was a meeting of the Health Committee, and I propose here that we discuss this and listen to the information of the Minister of Health in plenary, and that is still a big difference. That's the first line. Besides, I would like to tell the senator that it has been three weeks since the Health Committee meeting and the epidemiological situation has definitely changed. Then we talked about the threat that was in faraway China, now we are talking about Europe, and we are part of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u7	Thank you very much. In the face of Senator Skurkiewicz's opposition, this motion must be passed. Mr. Marshal... We're coming... But I don't... Of course, I'm the only one who wants an explanation... But there's no discussion, Mr. Senator. But there's no ad vocem mode, Mr. Marshal... Okay... ...so please give me the floor. There is no ad vocem mode in the rules. Mr. Senator, I'm giving you an exception vote, but please... Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. ...to consider that I'm doing this, so to speak, for noble reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u8	Yes, of course, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! I'll say it again. I understand that one or the other senator may be allowed to speak, but please treat us equally, and right, and left. That's one thing. There's no ad vocem mode in the Senate's Rules of Procedure, at least I don't recall it being, unless you've introduced something like this in the last few weeks. And another point that I would like to point out. Well, I'd like to hear from your marshal how the senators can make their proposals on the agenda, their conclusions on the extension of the agenda. That's one more thing. And one last thing, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. Since the last meeting of the Senate Committee, Madam President, the epidemiological situation has not changed in the Republic of Poland. She's submissive! She's submissive! I know that you want to cause another row and multiply your doubts, but I would like to reassure you: nothing has changed in this matter in the Republic of Poland. This is sick... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u9	Calm down, please. Mr. Senator, I quote you an article. 48 Rules of Procedure of the Senate: Outside the agenda or in connection with the debate, the Marshal shall only give a vote on the submission of a formal application, a reply or correction... So it was a replica, not an ad vocem, well, we can argue like this. The formal conclusions include the conclusions of point 8, which I quote to shorten The draft agenda or the agenda shall be supplemented or amended. And that closes the discussion. There's no obligation... And you're baiting Senator Libera-Malecka, speaking very unelegantly of her, one or the other, which I didn't like, saying it should only be reported by the head of the club. That's not true. That's why I'm asking you... The discussion is closed. In the face of Senator Skurkiewicz's opposition, we proceed to the vote on Senator Liberia-Malecka's request for an additional item on information on the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 52 for, 39 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] The point has been entered. We'll agree with the department on the date and time of submission of this information, probably Thursday. Senator Zdrojewski. Senator Zdrojewski. We're on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u10	Mr. Marshal, both at the convention and in Mr. Marshal's office, I have proposed a resolution to defend the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. Please put this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u11	Is there a conclusion... Now we can't vote on it. I know we can't. Are there any votes in this case? Since this is what the Legislative Committee is doing and the first reading will be in the Legislative Committee, the proposal can be examined at the next meeting, Senator. Or on this... Depending on the decision, but not today. After the report has been prepared. Yes, of course. I understand my interpretation is clear to everyone, right? Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, just so we understand... I understand that this proposal is premature at the moment, because the committee has not dealt with it, but if the committee does so at this meeting, then such a request to extend order can still be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u13	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the fifth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, tomorrow afternoon after 14.00, we will begin to hear information about the Ombudsman's activities and the status of respect for human and civil rights in 2018. Also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In 2018. It's gonna be about 2019, but it's gonna be at a later date. In addition, I inform the senators that, after the senate committees have prepared a report on the draft resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary, the agenda may be supplemented by a point on the second reading of this draft. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the budget law for 2020. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on this matter on the basis of which. The text of the Act is contained in print No 70 and the committee's report In print no. 70 A corrected. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on the budget law adopted by the Sejm on 14 February 2020. The Senate Marshal referred the bill to the Senate committees on 18 February 2020. At its meetings on 21 and 25 February of this year, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, in accordance with Article. 73. 2 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, prepared a draft resolution of the Senate and asks the High Senate to adopt the budget law for 2020 together with the amendments adopted by the committee. At the same time, I inform the High House that during the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, a request by minorities to adopt a law without amendments was made. This proposal will be discussed by the senator of the minority rapporteur. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has worked on the Budget Act for the current year very carefully and in detail. She assisted in her work with expert opinions, which she asked for the preparation of these opinions on the budget law, as well as other expert opinions, e.g. concerning compliance with and implementation of the expenditure rule relating to the implementation and implementation of the budget. These studies, which were prepared at the request of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, were made available to all senators so that comments on the budget for 2020. The work on the budget adopted by the Sejm was done in the same way as in previous years, so that the law was addressed in its parts to the various Senate committees to take note of this, to consider the important budgetary parts for them and to prepare possible amendments. - such as may later be put to the vote and discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. At its meetings, industry committees considered these parts of the budget, gave an opinion on them either positively or without comments, or made comments. Thanks to this way, the work of the industry committees resulted in the preparation of comments. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions did not make any comments to the Budget Act and requested that it be adopted without amendments. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has proposed the introduction of 1 amendment to the budget law. The Committee on Culture and Media recommended the Budget Committee 1 amendment. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport considered that the budget in the parts considered by it did not raise any objections and had not tabled any amendments. Similarly, the Committee on National Defence did not bring any comments and amendments to the national defence section. The Committee on Infrastructure has not tabled any amendments. At the same time, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, there was no clear support or denial of the relevant budgetary parts, so the committee ultimately did not take a clear position on the part of the budget that is relevant to that committee. At its meeting, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad adopted a positive opinion and did not comment. Of course, every committee meeting was that so to speak, very intense discussions, there were doubts, questions to ministers. I am saying this in the context of the Committee on Immigration, Communication with Poles abroad, because here there were many different doubts about the part of the budget which has been implemented so far through the Senate Office, through the Senate, and thus the funds allocated to finance, supporting the Polish mission. The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee has tabled 3 amendments. 2 amendments concern the Senate Registry. The first amendment restored the funds, PLN 110 million, to finance the Polonia tasks, so that these tasks would continue to be carried out by the Senate Office. The second amendment is an amendment which restores resources for the operation of the Senate Registry, which have been reduced in the course of Parliament's work on the State budget. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy calls for 1 amendment. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recommends the adoption of a budget law in the parts belonging to this committee without amendments. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration requests amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union also requests amendments. The Environment Committee recommends the adoption of a law without amendments. The Health Committee proposes that 1 amendment be adopted. The reports of each committee's work were presented at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance on 21 February. On the same day, after examining these amendments, the Commission accepted some of them as deliberate and some rejected them. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in a special way, I must discuss those amendments which have been rejected by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The first amendment rejected by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, i.e. it did not recognise the related argument of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, is the amendment which proposes to increase the amount of PLN 2 million 800 000 for the Energy Regulatory Office. Reasons for rejecting this amendment... Aha, the Committee on National Economy proposes that the resources at the disposal of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland be the source of this expenditure and proposes to reduce the budget of this unit by PLN 2 million 800 thousand. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances requests that this amendment be rejected, and I apologise for the rejection of this amendment. The reasons are as follows. First of all, the Energy Regulatory Office has received a significant increase in resources this year compared to previous years. This is an increase of more than 20%. We know that the office is still struggling with financial problems, but this growth seemed We're pretty important. Therefore, additional money from another part of the budget In part 74 of the General Procuratoria of the Republic of Poland, it seemed to us not justified and difficult to accept because the funds allocated to the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland are most often adopted and so in a very modest amount. So taking such a large amount of money away from this budget would cause it to paralyze the functioning of the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland. That is why the Commission's proposal for a Budget and Public Finance Committee to give a negative opinion on this amendment. Another amendment, which the Committee on Budget and Public Finance proposes to reject, except that the situation here is a little more complicated, is the proposal of the Committee on Family and Social Policy. This committee, after hearing the representatives of the State Labour Inspection, requested that the budget of this institution be increased by PLN 12 million by PLN 659 thousand. Thus, the committee proposed that the level of the institution's budget should be restored to the amount proposed in the initial submission of the budget law, so that such amounts should be adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The Commission considered that, in the case of the State Labour Inspection, although its budget was reduced by PLN 12 million, 659 thousand, the level of increase in resources at its disposal is higher than in other parts of the budget. However, it proposes that a certain modification be made, i.e. it is proposed that the State Labour Inspection should be restored not to PLN 12 million but to PLN 5 million. And this is the proposal that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has adopted. So we rejected the amendment proposed by the family committee, increasing the budget by PLN 12 million, 659,000, and we adopted an amendment which increases the funds by PLN 5 million, with the purpose of, among other things, being used. for the increase in salaries, but also for the property expenses that seemed to us, members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, justified. Now, I'd like to say briefly... And these are the 2 amendments that were rejected by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, one of which was accepted after the proposed measures were reduced. At the same time, we propose that you adopt a few amendments. In total, there are 10 amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. With all these amendments, what I would like to say to the High House was a very big discussion and there were many doubts. As always, there are various controversies with these kinds of proposals. In some controversies, we have asked the Minister to address the doubts raised by the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, following the reports of the majority and minority rapporteurs and after the questions in which he will present information about the budget. The aim is to clarify more clearly and precisely the doubts about the sources of funding in particular. And here the Minister has committed himself to providing such information, which may be helpful in preparing possible amendments, perhaps even modifying some of our amendments. First amendment we adopted We recommend its support, which is an amendment that allocates PLN 1 billion,950 million to the fight against oncology diseases. This is a matter that was indeed very strongly and seriously discussed at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] As you remember, this case has a lot of genuine interest in society, an interest in the seriousness of the situation. This part of health care needs to be supported in a special way. We in the Senate are trying to better finance cancer-related tasks, and for months now we have been trying to implement it in various ways. And this is another test. Most members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, but I am convinced that also members of the Committee on Health and other senators, I think that everyone... This should work now. This is an extremely necessary amount, and the sources from which we want to finance this task are, so to speak, acceptable, except for one part, but this is a matter that we should clarify. Here's a question that... there were some doubts, we had them while we were working on this amendment. This is a matter of resources for the President's Office. There's a pretty substantial increase in the budget in the President's Office, but as a result, it could happen. Some say that there would be a change in the President's Registry, greater means must be secured so that all those who work there can be sure that they will receive salaries, checks and various other benefits which result from normal administrative procedures. In the amendment we entered this source, but it is possible to consider it. The other sources of funding, of course, are always severe for someone, and it seems acceptable to me. Another major amendment... the measures we are talking about in this amendment come entirely from intra-budget transfers. Another major amendment, which also led to a major discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, is the amendment concerning general subsidies for local government units, chapter - educational part of general subsidies for local government units. And here we are proposing to the High House that the increase in resources for this purpose be... that it be a large amount, i.e. PLN 4 billion 605 million. This issue triggered a big debate at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances because the proposal was first that this amount should be PLN 5 billion. And then the right question arose: where did the amount of PLN 5 billion come from, why so precise calculations? And then, after a thorough analysis, which was prepared at our request by Senator Frankiewicz, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration... The senator, using the data from the Ministry of Finance, showed the calculation prepared by local government organisations, where it is clear that local governments receive for their educational tasks far less than the figures on the amounts they are intended to maintain schools. This amendment in practice concerns the remuneration of teachers. She was calculated on the basis of laws, ministerial regulations, which said what level of remuneration was guaranteed by the Ministry of Education. Another amendment that we have adopted and recommended to the High House is the right one, and I am convinced that it should not raise doubts on any side of our Chamber. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of tasks relating to Polonia. This is the amount of PLN 110 million. This is the task which was included in the draft budget of the Senate Office for the current year, which was already prepared in this draft budget which was sent to the Sejm last September. So it was a budget prepared by the Senate Chancellery accepted by the government. Unfortunately, in this last submission, it was voted out in the Sejm. These appropriations have been excluded from the budget of the Senate Office. In this way, the Senate's budget fell to about 60%. the size that the Senate Office had in previous years. This 110 million PLN was proposed, recommended and recommended to the Senate and the Sejm, and in general to society by the Marshal and the Senate Chamber in the previous term, so it was considered that this task should be carried out by the Senate Office. Unfortunately, for reasons beyond understanding, unclear to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances Perhaps the sense of this will be better explained in the senate debate. This money has been excluded from the Senate Chancellery's budget and distributed among different directors in individual resorts. We've sort of recognised two flaws in this solution. I'm gonna start by saying that the money was taken from the Senate Office, from the Senate budget. We have already had negative experiences with the situation when less funding for the funding of Polonia was taken from the Senate Chancellery. That was a few years ago. This caused, as some senators remember, huge dissatisfaction of all or the vast majority of senators, but it happened. The funds earmarked for this purpose have returned to the Senate and have been available in the last four years. This matter of how these funds were distributed, distributed, never raised any doubts. I will say more, there were very positive opinions of all: the government, the NGOs that received them, the Polish community, etc. So it seemed to everyone that these attempts to transfer, manipulate means for Polish purposes ended, were successful and that it would be possible to implement this project in the way it has traditionally been in the Senate so far, so through the Senate it was possible to distribute these funds to non-governmental organizations that work for Polonia in various places around the world. So we decided that these measures would go back to the Senate Registry, to the Senate budget and should be further developed within the framework of the Senate's activities. It is all the more justified that currently in this group, in this office that supports Polish affairs, there are more than 20 people working, I think about 30 people. This is a large group of people who have been accepted... And he works well. Please? And he works well. Very good. Oh, thank you for that attention, Senator. Indeed, that is because there has never been any comment on the work of these workers, on the part of the Polish commission, on the part of the marshal, on the Senate Bureau, on the Supreme Auditorium, or on any other bodies that might have doubts about this matter. Big team. In previous years, about 10 people worked on this team. It was built for the first time so large and so professional that it could carry out these tasks. And now, by taking that money from the Senate Office, you have to ask what's going to happen to those 25 or even 28 people. This is a very dramatic and important question. These are very competent people who are prepared to work in this area, and as far as I know, no one from the directors, the new directors who would manage these funds, has turned to the Senate Marshal or the Senate Head of Office to move these people to these other ministries along with these envisaged measures. So it would just have to mean that these people should be fired or a large part of them. It is all the more weird that apart from the fact that funds for Polish purposes have been removed from the Senate Office, funds have also been reduced in general to finance the Senate Office as an office, i.e. wages for these people as well, so it would not even be possible for these people to be released with briefings, with everything... But I hope that this amendment, recommended by the High House by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, will be adopted by the High House, will also accept the Sejm and this traditional task of the Senate, care for Polonia, will return to the Senate or remain in the Senate and will serve the welfare of the Republic of Poland and our fellow countrymen abroad. Another amendment that we have adopted is the amendment on the State Labour Inspection. I have already mentioned this when I mentioned the rejection of this large amendment. And we recommend that you accept the amendment concerning PLN 5 million instead of this amount of more than 12 million proposed by the committee. And now another amendment, just an amendment concerning the restoration of funds to the Senate Office for the functioning of the firm, i.e. PLN 7 million 440 thousand. With this amendment or with this attempt to reduce the Senate's budget, weird things happened in the Seym. So far, the practice has been that when it comes to the budgets of the Sejm and Senate Chancellery, they have actually been supporting each other in various activities, not acting against each other. There have often been situations where Parliamentary work in the Sejm reduced the budget, for example. Sejm and Senate Offices, but these activities have always been the result of an agreement between Chambers. So the Sejm law firm said that she was cutting back on her expenses, because other things were more important, and so did the Senate law firm, and she made those decisions. In our case, it was similar this time. When working in the Sejm, normal work on the state budget, after discussions and discussions, it was assumed that the Senate Office would also reduce its budget, understanding the difficult budgetary situation and needs in other areas of life. And this was accepted by the marshal, the bureau and the Senate. Unfortunately, the rules that have been in force so far have not been complied with during the parliamentary work and the budget has been reduced by more than those agreed amounts. Thus, this amendment, which we are restoring not entirely, but partially, in such a way that all of these, so to speak, agreements between law firms are maintained in force, while what is above standard, without discussion, has been taken away without discussions, has been restored. Now for another task... Uh-huh, ombudsman. We propose to increase the Ombudsman's expenditure by a total of PLN 6 million. The Ombudsman has been quite limited in his expenditure over the last years, and it can even be seen how the Ombudsman's expenditure is analysed. Each time during the debate on the budget in the Senate, we tried to align this with, for example, the level of growth that other state administrations and state institutions had. It hasn't worked so far. This year we propose an increase of PLN 6 million. It is only necessary to say here that for the first time there is an increase in funds for the Ombudsman, even without these 6 million PLN, but of course the starting point is the amounts which have been significantly reduced in previous years. So the spokesman in this budget, in this budget bill that has now been passed by the Sejm, has more than he had last year, but therefore... That height was I'll give you exactly what you want. It's not that small. So this is... 4 million 300. Yes. So it has more, but actually the starting point was very difficult, so to put it so gently. And another amendment, big, important, which is... This amendment depends on the Senate majority, but also on many people in Poland. In short, it's a problem to fight smog. For this purpose, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends PLN 1 billion. These measures are to be included in a special reserve to reduce air pollution. This issue has also sparked great discussions and emotions during the work in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances. We have been told that very large resources have been spent every year on the fight against smog, for several years now, but after a deeper analysis it turned out that these resources... We offer here 1 billion PLN, and this is very much. It is very much, 1 billion PLN it is a huge amount. But that's the amount that won't produce the expected result. It's a work spread over the years. But until now, if I remember correctly... The budget of this year is estimated to be PLN 250 million. I'm looking towards Senator Rotnicka because I don't remember the exact amount... And that's the amount spent on fighting smog this year. It seems that the addition of these measures should have some clear effect, although it will be far from possible simply to settle this matter. Another environmental issue and the change we are proposing is support for municipalities where national parks are located. The proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is that this special support should be given to those municipalities where national parks cover a minimum of 50% surface. There's a lot of towns like this. But I think This case has aroused a lot of emotion; we have asked the Minister to better explain this issue to us here. This level of park space, which is determined, should be slightly reduced. It is possible that up to 30%, because it is already a very, very serious problem for municipalities. And it often happens that national parks are the reason for the success of communities located at the park, and the municipalities in which the park is located are very, very poor. This case has been going on for years. It's not like I'm gonna say the effect of the last few years or even the last term. This is a problem that these park communities have been paying attention to for many, many years. This case is still unsolvable. Some municipalities are in dispute with the Treasury before a court of law to be able to obtain the lost potential benefits. This amendment is not intended to address the problem that exists in these park communities, but rather to enable these municipalities to function in such a way that possibly the municipalities that... Because often there is such a paradox that there is no basic municipal infrastructure such as sewerage, etc., etc. in the municipalities where national parks are located. And it's not built because it doesn't have the resources for these purposes, for example. in a national fund, in voivodship environmental funds or in various European projects. The problem is that these municipalities, as very poor, are not able to raise the own contribution required for these projects. It seems that such an amendment would make it possible to support these municipalities, it would be possible to support the municipalities so that they could carry out these projects, mainly infrastructure. How would these funds be shared? This will, of course, be the decision of the Minister responsible for the environment. The point is to do it fairly on a national scale. As I am saying, it is possible that this amendment would require some modification, but it is possible that those who are more competent in these matters, during their work, could improve this already in the debate, may improve it. Well, and the tenth amendment, the last amendment adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, is the amendment concerning a relatively small amount, i.e. the amount of PLN 3 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the European Solidarity Centre. The European Solidarity Centre, which is based in Gdansk, was established at the time, many years ago as a joint initiative of the authorities of Gdansk, the Pomeranian Voivodeship and the Ministry of Culture and Solidarity. And it's always been financed that way. Unfortunately, for several years the funds that the Minister of Culture has spent so far on the maintenance of this institution have been very limited. And in recent years, especially in the last year, this lack of funding for the institution's maintenance has been compensated by public collections. That's what we've done. You can see here how this institution is socially needed, accepted, how important and good it carries out its tasks. Thus, this amendment, which is intended to partially compensate for the losses resulting from the decision of the Minister of Culture restricting measures for the European Solidarity Centre. That amount... We wrote 3 million zlotys here, but in fact this is a bit higher, 3 million 400 thousand zlotys with some other parts. But here we have recognised the amount that should be used for this purpose. On the occasion of this amendment, there was a big and important discussion about the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the August 1980 strikes, the fact that this case... And I think that this issue should also be here, perhaps in the form of an amendment that would be tabled just in this debate, that special measures should actually be earmarked for this purpose. Since this idea of solidarity, this great citizens' rally of 1980, is of course present in our consciousness, it is known, in the consciousness of all, almost all... And we're all aware of his weight, the weight of that time, that 1980. One can say that we were all shaped by this year 1980 and certainly transformed us. So I think I would even have a request to the European Solidarity Centre to prepare a special exhibition here in the Senate building that would be devoted to this matter. But besides, the program to promote these big events, these big strikes, this huge, huge 10 million-dollar movement, to show it all over Poland, maybe also in Europe... These are great tasks for all of us, and probably for the institution. That is why we should remember this in this debate, in this budgetary debate. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there would be two more words of explanation, because there might be a charge... Mr. Marshal, High Izbo 'Cause I didn't say that very parliamentaryly, 'I'm asking you to come up with amendments that are, so to speak, financed, for example. the increase in VAT revenue. And they can appear immediately... and also from some other delicate growths. Because you know, every budget is constructed in this way, we would say as rationally as possible. To put it simply, in such a way that all the expenditure that is described in the budget is the maximum expenditure and the revenue is the minimum revenue to be made in a given year. But we are also proposing a certain increase here, especially with regard to VAT. Yeah, and other taxes, but mostly VAT. And where does that come from? Ours, i.e. those who have adopted these amendments to the budget law . that you can say that you think that there may be higher VAT revenue than in previous years? Honestly, there was some hesitation in VAT income in 2019. And we were even a little concerned that this growth dynamic, which was in previous years, was clearly slowed down in 2019. But the assumptions to the budget bill are so... e.g. is assumed And that's kind of the starting point for planning all the revenue, especially the tax ones. That inflation this year is going to be 2.5% on a yearly basis. We asked about this issue of inflation, in various situations and configurations, at meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Besides, just a few days before the committee meeting on budgetary matters, we had a special committee meeting with Vice-Presidents, 2 Vice-Presidents, the National Bank of Poland and members of the Monetary Policy Council of previous years, where there was a really beautiful discussion, strong and substantive discussion on VAT risks. As you know, this problem will be one of the most serious challenges of this year, because inflation for January is 4.4% , i.e. clearly above the inflation target. But speaking of revenue from the state budget... Of course, all citizens, all those who have any savings, are always... Well, every inflation is a huge loss to them. Because savings are that if today we have 100 PLN and if there is inflation, then after a year we have this money about the level of inflation less. So it's simple logic. However, due to the revenue of the state budget, inflation is obviously... I will not say that it is beneficial, because it is always unfavourable in the long term, but it has an additional impact on the state budget, because VAT is counted on prices which are current prices. If they increase, VAT will automatically be higher than the previous one. So that's our argument, which came out here strongly and clearly during the budget debate. What else have we pointed out in the discussions and discussions with the Minister on the budget bill? Well, that's the budget. This can be considered a success. It is presented for the first time as a balanced budget, which means that revenue is equal to expenditure. Such a situation, in such a sense, we did not actually have such a situation in this Third Republic. There's always been a budget deficit. Of course, as I say, I am very happy about this moment, but I would be even more happy if this deficit was real, real. We have pointed out that many expenditures unfortunately are being pushed out of the budget, so a large part of these measures, which should be shown as budget deficits... He is, in fact, really there, but he is sort of out of the budget, except for this document that we have here before us. In all kinds of funds and resources... I don't want to talk about it here, but if there's any questions... Perhaps there will be more to be said in the discussion. So that accounting and accounting... Of course, it is clear here that the budget is balanced, but in fact the deficit is very large, reaching more than... Well, at least 20 billion zlotys, you could say. As it will be in practice and as this budget will evolve in the coming months of this year, we will see. I therefore recommend that this law be adopted together with the amendments tabled, discussed and recorded in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator, for the extremely thorough and comprehensive presentation of the report of the Committee on Budgets and Finance. After all, there is also a request of minorities. On behalf of the senators who have signed the request of a minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I ask Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to present this proposal. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by thanking Senator Kleina for paying attention to the historicity of this event, in which we are all now participating in the Senate. For the first time in the history of the Senate, after 1989, we have the pleasure of discussing a balanced budget. Let me repeat: a balanced budget. And for that, they deserve the government that presented such a budget, the highest praise and respect. [[Applause]] The budget has been prepared in accordance with all the rules applicable to this law, i.e. in accordance with the rules on the establishment of the budget, and in accordance with the expenditure rule which is in force in the Public Finance Act. This budget is balanced, this budget is also the largest budget after 1989, because it assumes that the revenue and expenditure of the state, balanced, will amount to PLN 435 billion 340 million. This is the largest budget in Poland's history after 1989. But this balanced budget is at the same time a budget that provides wage increases, a salary fund in the national economy, as well as an increase in pensions and pensions of 6.3% in 2020, also implies a 6-percent increase in teachers' wages and guarantees the financing of all the social programmes that have been undertaken by the Government of Law and Justice, as well as the implementation of numerous, as well as new, infrastructure programmes. Thus, it is a budget that achieves a balance not by cutting social expenditure, not by abandoning infrastructure expenditure, but by achieving a balance through good governance and increased tax collection, and also through good economic conditions, which is largely the result of well-run economic policies. All the amendments that my previous speaker presented were adopted by a majority of 5 to 4 votes, so the minority proposal that I have the honour to present is a proposal of almost half of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. It follows from our belief that this budget does not need to be improved and, in particular, does not need to be improved in the way it is proposed. The amendments that have been presented speak very much about the applicants of these amendments, and they talk very much about the way they think about Poland of this formation, which these applicants represent. These amendments have one common denominator: they will reduce the safety of Poland, the safety of Poles in various aspects, i.e. in terms of physical security, because we are talking here about national defence, but also in terms of economic security, because we are talking here about amendments that concern the financing of the Treasury's debts. But first things first. The amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, reduces national defence expenditure and places it below the size to which we are obliged, in accordance with the National Defence Act and in accordance with our commitments to the North Atlantic Pact. In addition, this reduction in national defence expenditure takes place at a particular moment for Poland, at the moment when conflicts continue at the borders of the Republic of Poland, there is a war going on. I'm talking about the war in eastern Ukraine. Meanwhile, the funds to be transferred from the national defence budget, in line with the amendment presented by the majority of foreign affairs committees, are to be allocated to development programmes in the Third World countries. I understand that this is part of what Mrs Kidawa-Błońska said that we are not supposed to take care of Poland, but we are supposed to take care of Europe and the world. That's the proof of that care. We're still talking about reducing... Another amendment, which this time was tabled by the Rules of Procedure Committee, is to reduce internal security expenditure by removing the Internal Security Agency's funds of PLN 3 million 740 thousand. It is also an amendment that violates the security of the Polish state, because we are talking here about reducing the counterintelligence budget. Finally, I will mention amendments that reduce the economic security of the State. Senator Kleina mentioned an amendment that was happily rejected by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance We unanimously rejected this amendment. I checked who was the author of this amendment. It was Senator Jerzy who proposed this amendment, and most of the economic committee accepted it. Well, this amendment was intended to take the funds of the Public Prosecutor's Office, an institution which was called upon to ensure legal protection of the interests of the Republic of Poland, including above all the interests of the State Treasury. But the humorous part of our meeting was that... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mr. Senator... Yes? ...I would ask very much... Could you give me a more substantive reference? All these comments do not serve anything, they do not certainly serve the debate. I'd like that very much. I report, Mrs. Marshal... Yeah, but the humorous stuff... I'd like that very much. Mrs. Marshal, I'm reporting on what happened at the committee meeting. Senator Klein, in my presence, explained to the Attorney General that this amendment was made by the PiS. Perhaps that's why you rejected her. But what does the senator say? But I would very much ask for a substantive statement, Mr. Senator. It was happening in front of me. Nevertheless, all this shows a philosophy of these amendments which were made. It's about reducing security. Last but not least, the amendments proposed by the Committee on Health, as well as by the Senators Rotnicka and Frankiewicz, are amendments which together reduce expenditure on handling the Treasury debt by PLN 1 billion 50 million. I figured out what percentage of this budget is, that's 3.8%. the budget allocated to the operation of external debt. I do not want to tell you what would have happened if the Polish State had not been able to pay its debts in due time, in appropriate amounts. Another amendment, which in turn violates the feeling of financial security of Poles, is the increased tax burden of Poles proposed by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration. Well, we're talking about adding PLN 4 billion 605 million, so this amendment increases VAT revenue. At this meeting, I asked Senator Frankiewicz why this amount, to which he replied, and it is to be checked in the protocol This amount is due to calculations concerning the needs of local governments. And when asked how he felt that it was possible to increase the revenue of the budget, I got the answer that the information he took from the press showed that it was good to collect VAT. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard about an increase in tax burden by PLN 4 billion 605 million, because that is what this proposal is going to do. So most local government committees are proposing to reverse the very positive trend that we've been dealing with in recent years. The reduction of the financial burden of Poles. It is very easy to see how these loads decrease. The year 2019 is the year when Poles were the fastest in history after 1989, and I repeat: they got the day of tax freedom as soon as possible. In 2019, 8 June was the date of tax freedom. I would like to remind you that the highest level of fiscalism was reached on 11 July 2011. In 2011, the date of tax freedom was 11 July and this was at the latest in history after 1989 the date of tax freedom. For these reasons, but also because of the fact that the amendments you are proposing fit fully into the needs of your candidate's electoral campaign, that is to say, to take on topics that would be socially catchy, to shout out about needs, to increase funds for oncology, to fight smog... Ladies and gentlemen, during the committee meeting, we received information about the amount of money that is spent on oncology. One could say that these 2 billion PLN, which you are talking about, that it has to be allocated to oncology, have been realized in recent years. Expenditure on on oncology in 2015 amounted to PLN 7.1 billion and in 2018 amounted to PLN 9.1 billion. This year, the National Health Fund will spend PLN 11 billion on the fight against cancer. As far as the fight against smog is concerned, the Minister who attended the meeting recalled important information. This fight is implemented through the national units of the environmental fund, which have a budget of PLN 103 billion for the years 2018 to 2029. The Clean Air programme is being implemented and the resources for fighting smog are provided. Because of the identified sources of funding for the amendments that I have talked extensively about in my report, and because we do not want to allow this good, balanced budget of the state to be a field for campaigning to be subject to the needs of the electoral campaign, I propose that the High House, on behalf of the Senate minority, the minority of the budget committee, adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. First, Senator Aleksander Swed asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. I have three questions for Senator Bierecki and two questions for Senator Kazimierz Kleina. First question I'd like to ask. Mr. Senator, you and Senator Klein have pointed out that this is a historic event, but I would like to make it sound like we have a budget without deficit, revenue and expenditure of the state budget have been balanced. But I'm gonna ask that question because I want it to sound like it. Was this the case in the history of the Third Republic or after 1989 was there a budget in which expenditure would be balanced? Was there a budget without a deficit? Was there a situation at all that the budget was getting closer to not having this deficit? That's the first question. Second question. There were questions and an amendment was tabled on oncology. I would like to ask what funds under the 2020 budget are directed towards health care compared to the 2015 budget, that is, for the year in which the previous government ended its governments. And how many funds were allocated directly to oncology compared to 2015? And the third question. I'd like to ask you about our flagship program, the 500+ program. We have a budget without a deficit, despite our flagship programs, those big programs that were a big challenge. I'd like to ask... Because for the first time in a year... Since 1 July last year, the 500+ programme has been extended and the entire year will be dedicated to families under the extended 500+ programme. How much funding will be allocated to the 500+ programme under the 2020 budget? Senator Kleina's questions are in a minute, aren't they? Yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u19	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u20	Thank you very much for this question, because it is really worth highlighting this historical moment, but also showing what path the Polish state has gone through, the way to repair public finances in recent years. Poland has been subject to an excessive deficit procedure since 2009, which shows that we are expected to go below 3% of the deficit in relation to gross domestic product. And what was the realization of this? In 2012, the GDP deficit is 3.9%. In 2013, this deficit is rising to 4.3% compared to GDP. The government debt-to-GDP ratio was then increased by further percentage points to 53.9%. This was the fourth year in a row when the debt-to-GDP ratio was over 50%, so it exceeded the first prudential threshold described in the Public Finance Act. In July 2013, the Government of that time decided to suspend the operation of this provision in the Public Finance Act in order to continue to be able to break this law with impunity. That was the reality. Now we have a budget without deficit created on the basis of the same rules that were in force for the preparation of budgets in previous years. We have a shrinking debt, historically low debt, 43% with a piece of... I'm gonna remember exactly... That's about 43%. And especially important, we have a very good shift in the structure of this debt, because the share of non-residents in financing the Polish debt has decreased significantly, i.e. the Polish debt is increasingly in Polish hands. It's very important for the security of our finances. So we came from this state of affairs, the state of public finances, in order to reach a sustainable budget. So I think that when these figures are reminded, these facts, everyone must honestly congratulate this government on the success that has been achieved after 4 years of hard work. The senator asked me about 500+ and the oncology funds. I was talking about oncology measures in my speech. This appropriation is Okay, let's hear it again. The National Health Fund will spend PLN 11 billion on the fight against cancer, yes, PLN 11 billion. As far as the funding for social programmes is concerned, it is historically huge money, well over 60 billion a year. They're so big. But the country's finances have come a long way, the difficult way they've come to the state's finances to come to this historic moment when we're talking about a balanced budget. I hope that in the years to come we can talk about the surplus budget if there are no events that we have no influence on. On this occasion, I would like to ask the senators who asked for a debate, in short, on Coronavirus, that we should conduct this debate, if it is conducted, in a reserved manner, because the most important thing in the economy is psychology, yes, psychology. People's behaviour determines economic events and influences it, so I would ask that you senators discuss this difficult event, which is now... Mr. Senator, is that still the answer to the question? Yeah, yeah, but I'm almost done. I ask for restraint because such debates do not have an impact on human behaviour and human behaviour has an impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Swed still has a question for the Senator of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have another question for Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Mr Senator, you were talking about the amendments that were tabled by the committee to the State budget for 2020, and then you presented your report to Senator Bierecki and somehow I did not notice this amendment. I'm talking about the amendment, because you were talking about an amendment like that when it comes to increasing the President's Registry for possible briefings. I have noticed here that in this budget we have a reduction rather than an increase, I somehow did not catch this amendment. Has this amendment really been tabled? That's what I wanted to ask you. And the other thing. You said, Mr Senator, in your report on expenditure that you believe is being pushed beyond the budget. You have therefore questioned that this deficit is balanced. What expenses do you think, Senator, are being pushed beyond the budget? I would ask for specifics here, because these details were not in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I was talking about these issues and I would refer to this issue of national defence measures in the President's Office. They are indeed in these amendments. And at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, we talked about the fact that the Finance Minister in his report will address this part, especially the question of national defence, whether it is possible to take this amount from the resources allocated to the territorial troops so that this does not disturb this indicator of the State's budget for defence purposes. In my experience, with the national defence budget of 49 billion, almost PLN 50 billion, the amount of PLN 30 million or PLN 50 million... Of course, this is a large amount, and all the amounts we are talking about with regard to the state budget are large, aren't they? But with this budget, it's going to be Yeah, I think so. It is almost unnoticed because it is an indicator relating to gross domestic product, i.e. such measures which are also estimated. So I don't think that's gonna change that indicator. And now to say that war and we want to support poor countries... Well, I wouldn't use that kind of argument at all. Nor are we threatened by war... God, let it always be that way. Of course, you have to prepare yourself, that's what the Minister of National Defence is for, sitting even in this room. But we should simply support the various positive changes that are taking place in different countries around the world, especially in poor countries. Well, it's not like it's any special, special situation. We see how difficult conditions still exist in many different countries in Africa or Asia, or in different places in the world, where there are wars, famines, etc. And this help is really still symbolic in relation to the help of other countries. If we consider, as we are here, in a group of 100 senators, that this is a bad source, then let's look for a better one, one that is not so sensitive and sensitive, but let's give this money for this purpose, because it is also our responsibility. Plus, we've been doing this for years. We keep forgetting about this, and we used various kinds of help from different countries and accepted it, and it didn't hurt us. Today, as we can and should be able to help, we should do so, for example by remembering that they used to help us unconditionally: people, states and institutions. Now it's about pushing things out that you're talking about... But I think the Minister of Finance will explain this issue, perhaps even the Minister of National Defence. Is this budget balanced? I said he's formally balanced, that's true. I'm even happy that he's formally balanced. But if we just analyze one thing, the Solidarity Fund... Do you remember why the Solidarity Fund was set up, in what situation and in what context? He was called to help people with disabilities, families, etc., to care for them. But what was done now? It is precisely to balance the budget that the Solidarity Fund pays its thirteenth pension. And you could say, okay, we have so much money in his budget that you can withdraw that money from this fund. But there's no such thing. The Solidarity Fund, the Fund... the Solidarity Fund is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This revenue of the Solidarity Fund... The revenue of the Solidarity Fund in 2020 will amount to PLN 3 billion 750 million and must be paid out of it 28 billion PLN. So what is missing is that we need to borrow, so the Solidarity Fund lends this money and then they are not visible as sovereign debt. In fact, I'm in favour of paying this 13th pension, but then you have to make it clear, as it used to be... There has always been such a provision in the state budget: a loan or a grant to the Social Insurance Fund, and it was several billion zlotys in various situations. Well, it had to be written and it would be a clear, simple and clear situation. And there's more to it than that. And that's the truth. This is simply a precisely calculated point by point, also in those expertises that we have prepared for you. And of course, unfortunately, there are still various types of burden increases. Even the situation is that the Sejm and the government do not keep up with the adoption of various types of laws, which are directly tax laws. Not further than today's discussion of the conversion fee. It's the transformation of open pension funds into... well, what are they called? Senator Frost knows very well. IKE, right? Individual retirement accounts. Individual retirement accounts. And this operation. Okay, well, maybe that's not what I'm saying. It costs the owners 15%. . This is de. In fact, the tax on this amount, which is... This fund is meant to be designed... to be individualized and for this transformation in the form of a fee, which has absolutely all the marks of the tax... For this fee, 15% will be charged in advance Oh, yeah? I don't even want a legislator who designs this bill to say it's a tax. Because then it would be safe for the owners of these IKEs, individual funds, because you can say that if the tax has already been taken away, it will not be taken away in 20 years. But the name of the fee is introduced, and it's so constructed... I had discussed this matter long after the committee meeting and asked our legislators about it, because we don't really know what it is. We will also talk about this at the next meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. But what I'm trying to say here is that this is another fee that's been charged in a hurry. Let us say: let us postpone the date of entry into force of the law on this matter for January 1, so that there is time for people to decide whether they want to stay in OFE or move to IKE. But there's no time for that, and it's not because citizens just can't do it in the long term, think about it, etc., just because it's already de facto included in the budget. Because it was entered into the Social Insurance Fund. This is how the deficit of this budget is reduced. Sugar levy. This is another tax that will be adopted in the coming days. This case was supposed to come first... I haven't touched it yet. I haven't touched it with my finger. And the question of the presidential election... Because Senator Bierecki raised this issue here, he said: elections, elections, elections, president, president, president. This law on sugar levy in the first version was due to enter on 1 April, as we were told. But she can't. She's already been budgeted. And you know, it's okay, because it's not a tax again, it's a fee. But now her entrance was moved to July 1st so that it would be after the election. That's about the campaign discussion by Senator Bierecki. I think I've even said too much... No, very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz was the next person to ask questions. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I understand that you're trying to cede some of the answers to the Ministry of Finance, but with regard to these amendments... Well, the state in the committee raised your hand and voted for it, also in favour of the amendment which receives PLN 50 million in part 26 of the budget. I'll remind you that this is 2.01%. GDP for defence. And this is the implementation of the law, which in the last term of office adopted in consensus all political formations of the Law on reconstruction and technical modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. I know that it is difficult for you to discuss this issue because you represent political formations that have not spent more than PLN 13 billion on national defence in eight years, and this is also worth recalling at this point. But my question is this. Will the adoption of such an amendment, fully aware that it will break another law, be in line with the law? And did this amendment... Here we call on the Marshals of Moravian-Stanecka to withdraw this amendment, as it is absolutely not in line with other laws which operate in the legal trade in the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. Can I get an answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u26	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have drawn attention to this problem, we are aware of it, and we have acted consciously, we know that this is the problem here. That is why, at the committee meeting, we asked the Minister to calculate whether, indeed, in view of such a situation and the amount that the national defence sector receives, the transfer of this amount will destroy the statutory condition. If so and if the situation is actually so tense... And as I said, the amounts of more than 49 billion zlotys, or almost 50 billion zlotys, are less than 50 million zlotys... I think the minister's gonna count it to us. If it turns out that our confidence in the defence of the country is to depend on it and whether we survive, we, of course, as Senator Bierecki says here... I think we can try to find another source of funding for this amendment, it is possible. As I say, we were unable to count this, so we asked the Minister of National Defence for an answer on this issue... no, I'm sorry, the Minister of Finance, to calculate it and give it to us at the meeting, that is, during this report, which he will present in a moment. Then we'll see. I look forward to it, and I'm curious, as long as this ratio is reduced, precisely because we would have taken that amount off the resources allocated to the territorial troops. Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Who's the question? To see the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. I'm here. Mr Senator, as a co-author of an amendment increasing resources for the European Solidarity Centre, I would like to ask you why the Law and Justice are against this amendment and why you believe that this amendment could reduce the security of Poland. Because by referring to the common heritage of the Solidarity, common to many people in this room... I do not understand why the Law and Justice are against the honorable celebration of the 40th anniversary of the rise of the 'Solidarity', the earlier August strike, but there are also other important round anniversaries, like the 50th anniversary of the December events in the Tricity... Why do you not want to allocate the funds that would be used, I think, in an optimal way by an institution that, after all, deals with the professional history of solidarity, our common history? Are you aware of the existence of other institutions of the state which, as effectively as the ECS, would seek historical truth, also in an international sense? In November, the event was celebrated in Berlin, which, in the general European consciousness, a little shadowy the August events and the rise of the Solidarity, celebrated the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall... Mr. Senator, I would ask you very much, one minute... I'm off, Mrs. Marshal. The validity of applicants... Do you know anything about other institutions that have public or public resources, e.g. The Polish National Foundation provided for some serious expansion of PR in this area outside Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u30	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u31	Thank you very much. During the meeting, I asked the rapporteur... The issue of ECS was reported by Marshal Kaminski, who spoke very widely about the financing needs of events related to the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Solidarity Day this year. During the meeting, I referred to this and supported this desire to allocate public funds to a worthy celebration of this anniversary. Nevertheless, my amazement was caused by the speech of the Marshal, as I said during the committee meeting, because he was bringing it in at the same time. Or by his statement, he justified it. For the reduction of funds for the Institute of National Remembrance, which is an institution of great importance for cultivating, popularizing the true history of "Solidarity," the true history of Poland primarily after the post-war period. So it was, I might say, a somewhat humorous situation that this speech served to justify the reduction of resources. As regards the amendment concerning the European Solidarity Centre, I asked during the meeting whether the European Solidarity Centre requested additional measures. We are at the end of February 2020, after all, the Centre already has the budget adopted for 2020. Was it asking for additional funds, and what would it spend it on? I did not receive this information at this meeting. Marshal Borusewicz spoke during this meeting. I checked it out later. Mr Borusewicz is a member of the Programme Council, chairman of the Programme Council of the European Solidarity Centre, so in some sense he spoke about the budget of the institution in which he is involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u33	The answer to my question. I asked the senator why the Law and Justice did not want to support this amendment and whether you were aware of any other public funds to be earmarked for the celebration of these events, in particular, maybe this is outside the scope of the committee's interest. The promotion in the world of these events in the context of public funds at the disposal of the Polish National Foundation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u34	We did not discuss the budget of the Polish National Foundation, and therefore I do not have any information about it. So it's hard for me to answer your question. However, I am convinced that the money for this anniversary is in the budget and is in the right hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... Senator Zdrojewska? Corrigendum. But a corrigendum to what? To the Minister's statement. But... Excuse me, sir, to the senator's statement. There's no way... But in what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u36	The committee was mentioned, and I was the author... I presented this at the budget committee meeting. I just want to explain something. In the discussion, in the discussion... It's a small thing. For the record, not only was the senator asking for this amendment, but the whole cultural committee. It was an amendment voted by the cultural committee. That's a correction to Senator Rybicki's statement. So that it is not only Senator Borusewicz's idea, but also other honourable fellow senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go. The answers to my questions have already been answered, so thank you. Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Wait a minute, because I'm having a problem with...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u38	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for both rapporteurs. Maybe I'll ask Senator Kleina the first question. My question is the following. As I understand it, you are proposing in your amendments to increase the revenue of the state budget from VAT by PLN 4 billion 600 million. What makes you think it's real if you say you can't increase VAT revenues? Are we not dealing with some economic fiction or some proposal that is unrealistic? That's my question for Senator Kleina. In turn, the question to Senator Bierecki...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u39	Mr. Senator, maybe you'll answer the senator first, and then you'll ask the next question. Okay? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I partly explained this when I presented the report, where and how... I told you why we are making such an amendment that implies an increase in revenue, VAT revenue. We mentioned a few of these reasons. The first reason, as I mentioned, is also the issue of inflation. It appears to be higher than the expected inflation target within a year, including the one adopted in the Budget Act, because 2.5% was adopted in the Budget Act. If inflation is higher and all indications are that it may be higher in one year I wouldn't want that to happen, but all indications are that it could happen. It is then that these revenues will naturally be higher. This is because, like, the starting point in counting... Well, VAT is a percentage on the net price. So that's one reason. Now the other one. Well, I'm assuming there's going to be a narrowing of the tax hole, and this tax hole, the tax gap, unfortunately, has started to rise again in the last two years. And the third reason However, I assume that the collection of VAT will also improve. Excuse me... That's how I see it. I think it's very real and possible. This, of course, also requires a lot of activity from tax administrations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u41	Thank you very much. So I have a question for you... Thank you very much. Now, a question for Senator Bierecki, right? Bierecki, yes, sir. I'm here. Mr. Senator, because lately there have been discussions about the impositions on health care, and especially oncology, which is obviously understandable due to the tragic harvest of oncology diseases in our country, according to research, about 100,000 people die annually. Please tell me how the expenditure in this budget is shaped in this respect, and how these expenditures have looked in the past. Are we looking at a tendency to decrease these expenditures, or are we looking at an increase in these expenditures? Increases. If the senator would like to explain this matter to the House... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u43	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm going to give you two figures that answer your first question about the increase in healthcare expenditure. In 2015 the Polish state spent 71 billion on health care, now it is over 105 billion, i.e. we are talking about an increase of about 50%. over a period of 4 years. If we are talking directly about oncology expenditure, then, as I said earlier, there is PLN 11 billion from the NFZ, but it is also worth recalling the resources provided in the state budget for the implementation of the National Oncology Strategy: in 2020, PLN 250 million and then, from 2021 to 2023, additionally from the budget of 450 million and in the years 2024-2030 500 million per year. These are expenses related to the adopted National Oncology Strategy. Let me remind you that this is a bill adopted at the initiative of President Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u45	Thank you very much. I have a question for two rapporteurs, too, and I want to stick to this oncology thing. This is a question addressed to Senator Kleina. Well, we juggle so easily with numbers, so let me also quote some. In 2006, at the end of the PiS government, the first PiS government, you spent 36 million PLN on health care... Billions. 36 billion zlotys, I'm sorry. Senator Bierecki himself noted that at the end of 2015 it was already 71 billion PLN, more than twice or twice as much. It's the same with oncology. In 2006 you spent PLN 1.6 billion on oncology. You've already given us the number of expenses when the Platform gave up power. I'm gonna get to the question. I'm gonna give you another piece of data. The number of hospitals in debt in 2006 was 200... 574... Mr. Senator... Now, this data, unfortunately, I have to give... I'd really like to ask... One minute, though. At the end of the government, it was about 300 hospitals. I have a question, Senator: what is the result of increased funding for oncology? Whether this is mainly due to the increased revenues of the NFZ, mainly from economic growth and mainly from the fact that foreign workers are being sussed, e.g. Ukrainians? Is this the main revenue and the main reason for this increase? 'Cause I don't think it's directly about the health department's budget. That's the first question, then there's the second one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Health services are generally financed by the National Health Fund. Of course, there's a small part of the state budget... But she doesn't have an impact on the amounts involved in health care funding. Of course, the objectives that are in the budget are important, but the main resources come from the National Health Fund. Of course, its amount depends on wages, wage levels, unemployment levels. So all these elements, which are related to economic development, have an impact on the amount spent on health care funding. Thus, it can be said that, well, the situation of Poland was different in 1989, different in 1990, different in 2000, different in 2015, etc. Well, it's just that this economic development is still happening. And 100%. you can say that in 5 years someone else will be in charge and these funds from the National Health Fund for health care will certainly be higher than today. Well, that's obvious, isn't it? And it's like betting on it is just so unfair. And generally, I think, going back to history all the time is just always burdened with a big mistake. I am an economist and I am also a historian, but I always warn against moving things in such a simple or sometimes simple way, so as not to explain my successes today, that it was such a situation at the time. Because that's when we usually fall into the traps that we set on ourselves. So some of the amounts that are in the budget come, so to speak, from just such natural contributions, which also result from economic processes, from economic development, etc. Of course, it always affects that. economic policy, health policy, etc. I'm not saying the minister's helpless or the government's helpless. And a lot is done. Today we say that oncology seems to be 10 or 11 billion zlotys. We say it's a lot. But needs are twice as big today, aren't they? And that's the problem. After all, we are not saying, by submitting an amendment, that this amendment is to resolve anything. This amendment only adds to solving these problems. After all, the beginning of all this took place not on the occasion of the budget, but on the occasion of the Act on the financing of public television, a law, where 2 billion zł lightly by hand, bypassing the budget law, is devoted to public television. I would ask Senator Bierecki or any of you whether public television was financed by the budget during the Civic Platform. Well, it wasn't, was it? And that's when the TV was running. Probably not as good, not as perfect as today, I don't know. But we had to deal with all this. Today, it is necessary to pay PLN 2 billion from the state budget. And that's why we say: a better goal, a better social goal is oncology. And that's the alternative. And the other thing. We keep saying, "Let the expenditure be visible in the budget." It's good to be balanced, but it better be real. Let people, also citizens, our countrymen see that we are doing something on credit, not that we are hiding these loans somewhere deep under the table. It's better to show them. They're still visible. Maybe not in the state budget, but in the whole... In the finances of the public finance sector, they come out. I didn't even talk about the cancellation in 2018 of probably PLN 40 billion of the loan which was intended for the Social Insurance Institution. You can't see that money anywhere, can you? You can't see them. And they were borrowed. FUS. So? And the FUS is in a perfect position right now, isn't it? He even has a surplus, and so on. In fact, the debt is still on him. So he just humbly approaches these different... She's really not pregnant. Well, she's not pregnant, of course, because she's out. So the state budget took it upon itself to see it again in the state budget. Because if this were done in a simple way, as should be done, it should be shown that we then remitted this amount as a debt from the Social Insurance Fund. So these debts, these actual debts... The deficit of the state budget is really still large. He's smaller. That's what I'm saying. I'm not hiding it. Yeah, that's what we're happy about. But to say that everything is perfect now is to say it's not true, because it's just a lot, a lot of spending on huge amounts has been hidden in various kinds of funds that are outside the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Gawłowski, one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u49	Yes. Second question for Senator Bierecki. You're a good financier, a well-known financier. You used such a term in the section on the "Clean Air" programme that you planned PLN 106 billion or PLN 103 billion for this programme. Depending on who is quoting, these 2 numbers are given interchangeably. But let's stick to the amount of PLN 103 billion. That money's supposed to be spent in 10 years. It is easy to calculate that this is a little over PLN 10 billion a year. Well, Mr. Senator, the program was announced in 2018. Last year, 2019 spent a little more than PLN 1 billion on this program from the national fund and the voivodship funds. For 2020 national and voivodship funds have less than PLN 2 billion and these are funds only EU. You won't find any other resort or gold for that purpose. And since you're saying that 1 billion zloty is populism and that you shouldn't spend it, I'll tell you that this populism is 200,000 removed cinderellas. Mr. Senator, question. I repeat, 200,000. Mr. Senator, could I ask you a question? It's been a minute. Senator rapporteur, where is the 10 billion PLN in the budget for 2020, which is the 1/10th programme announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki? Show them to me. You're a great financier, you know how to reproduce money. Tell me where they are.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u50	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u51	Thank you very much. First, I'm going to refer to the previous questions, because they, too, I understand, had... A specific question... Those questions were... It's already been done. They weren't directed at me? Those aren't the questions. They weren't directed at me. I thought I was supposed to answer questions about health care, too, but no. It's already been done. The Clean Air programme, according to the adopted law, involves spending PLN 103 billion from the state budget in the period 2018 to 2029, of which PLN 63.3 billion will be funding in the form of grants and EUR 39.7 billion in the form of repayable loans. This program is growing, it's being implemented. It's partially growing. It's getting bigger, it's getting bigger. How is... He's gotta take off... Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for some peace of mind. This program has started. Let me remind you that he took off exactly in September 2018. He evolves, he's perfected. I have recently seen a decision to facilitate the submission of applications. It is about enabling these applications to be submitted online, not in the offices of the national environmental fund. I am optimistic about the functioning of this programme and also about the interest in this programme. Where are these resources? In the budgets of the environmental fund. They come from budgets with environmental funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Paweł Arndt. But they're gone. They're here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Bierecki. Actually, I had two questions, but one of those questions was just asked by Senator Gawłowski. I have a question for you. If I understood your initial statement correctly... You said that the increase in pensions and wages this year would probably be 6.6%. However, the pension growth rate for 2020 is expected to be 3.25. The lowest pensions grow by 70 zlotys, but does that make this indicator work? Would the senator like to zoom in on that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u54	Exactly. This indicator is nominally 6.3% the annual salary fund in the national economy and pensions. That's exactly what it is: 6.3%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u56	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Kleina, about two things. One. It seems to me that the situation concerning the budget of the President of the Council of Ministers is extremely shocking. Budget increase not by 4%, as in inflation, not by 14%, as in inflation plus 10% , only 40%, this is something extraordinary. How do I add to that... When you consider the increase since 2015, i.e. since the takeover of rule by law and justice, you can see that there is an increase of more than 100%. , compared to what was behind the previous government. Well, what happened in this country is that there's such an increase, 100% At the Council of Ministers? What's that, except... Mr. Senator, I would very much ask you to limit your time. I'm almost done. ...that we have the greatest number in terms of the Council of Ministers. Second question, if your marshal will allow it, because this is a very important matter. It's about the Coronavirus epidemic. I understand, of course, that here neither the government nor anyone could have foreseen this in the draft state budget, but I would like to ask whether the budget committee sees in the draft budget securing funds for possible needs in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u57	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Well, as for the first case concerning the increase in funds for the maintenance of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, this is actually a value of 140% compared to last year. That's a significant, very large increase. This amount has also upset us, and we also had doubts about it. This increase in the budget of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister took place very radically in the last 4 years. Previously, this was always justified by the fact that the Treasury Ministry was no longer in place, and the Prime Minister's firm took ownership over many companies of the Treasury. In fact, I do not know that, because these companies were scattered between different ministries, so there was de facto no coordinated supervision of the companies of the State Treasury. This year, after all, a law was introduced on rebuilding the Treasury Ministry, after realizing the absurdity of the situation that has been for the last four years. Of course, today it's not called the Treasury Ministry, it's the Ministry of State Assets. The idea was simply to cover the tracks of that old ministry, but in fact the main idea of setting up the Ministry of State Assets was to re-compensate supervision and take it under one wing to one ministry. Unfortunately, this has not been carried out consistently. However, individual ministers seem to be able to say that they keep their toys and continue to play with these companies. I just can't be so serious about it. That the supervision of the company is linked to the regulator. It is now simply a disease of the state. Such a situation, that e.g. Energy companies are supervised by a minister competent for energy matters, who is also a regulator in this area, etc., etc., because examples can be multiplied. Well, that's a basic mistake, but that's another thing. Today you are talking about the fact that this has been taken out and a new ministry has been created, and yet the resources for this purpose are increasing, and that is very bad. We'll monitor it. We will see what happens to this, whether this money is really going to be spent on this, and to this extent. Average wages etc. Everything in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister is elevated, very, very elevated. Well, for example. there are sectors in departments, in parts of the budget, where average earnings are very low, e.g. in the whole sector related to the statistical office, wages are very low And there are those where the average wage is clearly above 10, 11 or 12 thousand PLN. But that's another question. Now it's the Coronavirus issue. I think it is a good thing that a proposal has been made here to hold a debate on possible risks in Poland related to the coronavirus. If it looks like it, we'll see. However, it seems to me that the case is really serious, and we all know it and we are aware of it. That's why it would be good if there was a signal, for example. on the part of the Minister for Health that an amendment is needed, just in case, e.g. creation of a special reserve, which is possible. The idea is to make this kind of threat more operational. Let's hope nothing happens here. I'm even sure nothing's gonna happen, but just in case, something would have to be done. There is a general reserve of the Council of Ministers in case of some major threats, but it is relatively small, because it is two hundred and several dozen million zlotys. So that's the thing. So I would urge you, however, to create such a reserve, just in case, even call it a very general one. The Prime Minister or the Minister responsible for health care, who could be launched in emergency situations. But such a proposal of amendment must be prepared by the government. We can't come up with that. We can't even tell you what we need to know about this... And that's why I'd ask the Minister to think about it, and that sort of thing. The amendment is proposed to us. I'm 100% convinced we'd accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u59	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I think I'm addressing Senator Bierecki, because I'm sure he'll do very well and get me out of my ignorance... I would like to ask you if this balanced budget, which you so flatteringly referred to, contains elements that are de facto not pure money. Here I am thinking of promising financial support to some entities in the form of Treasury bonds, among others. higher education institutions for conducting research. If we were to go far away with this reasoning, we could actually set up the entire budget with these Treasury bonds. Please tell us what the role of these bonds is and how it has to do with this balanced budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u61	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u62	Thank you very much. In fact, I can answer that this was not the subject of the Committee on Budget and Finance. But maybe you have that knowledge and you'll make us aware. Isn't there room for that? The Minister, present in the courtroom, certainly has data and information. We've been discussing this while we're at it. The Commission has this knowledge, but in a fair report, I cannot say that this is the subject of discussion at the committee meeting, or that it is the subject of a minority request that I report. So, if the senator will allow me, I will redirect the question to the Minister, who certainly has the data and is able to say what is the range of bonds that are transferred to universities. And one thing I would like to say on the margin: now we are dealing with the phenomenon of, I would quote the data, I am looking for them quickly, because I know that I have a very beneficial for financing the debt of the Polish state. We are also dealing with a historical event. It worked in January... one-year issue of bonds worth EUR 200 million with negative profitability, minus 0.31%. This is a historic event for the service of our debt. Investors have such confidence in the state of the Polish economy that they are willing to pay for the fact that they will have Polish bonds. Unless they're afraid of high inflation. So... it's in euros. I'm talking about euro emissions, EUR 200 million with profitability minus 0.31%. Such profitability remained with very high demand... I'm sorry. The next emissions are very nice numbers. I think you'll all be happy to hear it. €1.5 billion with a return minus 0.002 for 5-year-olds, and demand was 6.5 billion. So there were many times more, more than 4 times... The amount declared was more than 4 times the amount offered - 1.5 billion with negative profitability. So when it comes to financing the debt of the Polish state, we are dealing with historical and positive events. You can take a little of the debt service. Of course. That's all, Mr. Senator. Excuse me. With your permission, Marshal... There you go. The question was without permission, but the answer without permission... Answer me again. I assume, Mr. Senator, it was planned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! I will address the first question to Senator Kleina, because Senator Bierecki first speaks of a phenomenon, and then answers a detailed question that it was not the subject of the discussion. Well, that's the way it's gonna be. Wait a minute, I'm gonna ask you some questions about what you're saying. The speeches you gave yourself were not about the subject matter either, but I will ask them. On the other hand, I would like to ask Senator Kleina such a question. Mr. Senator, the senator secretary was asking what was being taken out of the budget when it came to spending. In addition to what is related to the Solidarity Fund and the financing of 13 pensions, are there other instruments that are carried out outside the 2020 budget? That's one question. Do you know and can you tell us what the deficit value of the entire public finance system is? These are the two questions. And then I'll address Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u65	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, we have already mentioned here that debt in the form of bonds is used in different places, but this mainly concerns higher education, these funds for research, for investment, for different purposes of higher education. And the second such spectacular, large source of funding concerns public media, these are the 2 billion zlotys. In turn, the entire debt of the public finance sector for the current year... This is based on the document that the committee received, that is, on the analysis, of the expertise that was provided to us. This is an opinion, an OE-285 expert. Each Senator of the committee received it, but it is worth to say here that the debt amounts to more than 32 billion PLN, except that the main cost is related to the Solidarity Fund and its transformation, through which the funds are allocated for other purposes than those for which it was appointed. So this is the actual deficit. You could say that this is about 32 billion zlotys. Well, maybe not quite, because part of this debt includes other entities, but over 20 billion PLN for sure There he is. It is simply worth remembering when you talk about this balanced budget that it is balanced in such a special way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u67	Thank you very much. And the senator wanted to address Senator Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As for the senator's statement, you were talking about the defense spending. Well, I mean, in short. Yeah, yeah. It is precisely about rebuilding, upgrading and financing the Armed Forces. In your opinion, in addition to expenditure related, in general, to the Polish army, is it possible to finance other tasks from this fund, or not? Because you were talking about reducing... ...security. ...the security of the state. Can this fund only finance tasks related to modernization and improvement of the Polish army? That's the first question. Senator, you said the ECS funds are in the right hands. No, I didn't say that. You said... Mr. Senator, I've written this down exactly: the operating funds or the ECS support there are in the right hands. No, no, we'll ask for a transcript. It's a transcript, okay. I certainly didn't say that. The funds for the celebrations of events. For celebrations, for celebrations. It's not ECS, it's celebrations. Oh, I'm sorry, for the celebrations of events. Sorry, sorry. That's what we agreed on. We don't have to look for it in the transcript. That's what we agreed, as usual. The funds for the celebrations are in the right hands. Could you point out the right hands? What exactly did you mean by that? Because it's interesting. And now, you've been giving amounts about hospitals, health care expenditures. Could you tell me what percentage of GDP in 2020 is... I assume that since January 2020, I am no longer talking about what is going to happen in 2020. We know that we have planned expenditure for 2020 in terms of health protection, and we have a certain gross domestic product value in January 2020. What percentage do we spend on health care? And I also have a question for you about that. Are you the senator? Knows I'm almost done. What are the debts of hospitals? Not to speak again, Senator, that's the case. When it comes to air protection, improving air quality, you're talking about this start-up good mode. Did you see yesterday, today, the report on the support for the exchange of furnaces in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in Jelenia Góra? Have you seen them? If you've seen it, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u69	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u70	Thank you very much, Marshal. The easiest question is the last one. I didn't see that report, so... I'm the one in the debate who's gonna show you... If the senator shows me, I'll be happy to take a look at them, and I'll be able to relate. So I didn't see him. As for your questions about the state of the hospital's debt, the health care funds, I would like to remind you Mr. Senator was at the meeting. That we haven't talked about it at all. But you said here... We haven't talked about this at all. I was merely giving you the numbers, referring to the amendment you had tabled concerning the allocation of additional funds for oncology. I've shown you how much it's already in this budget, and that's what I have. However, it is difficult for me to discuss everything at the moment, because we would spend a lot of time here, and it is probably not our intention to blur the work on the budget bill into a series of digressions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u71	Thank you very much. No, Mrs. Marshal... Oh, another one? He didn't answer two questions... And what else... But to the other, the senator said he didn't know he hadn't seen... No, no, I'll remind you, Mrs. Marshal... I didn't see that report from Jelenia Góra... Because the senator doesn't write down... ...but there is Senator Frost, who is from this constituency, Jelenia Góra... No, no, that's not what I'm asking. ...is a proud city that... It's still national defense. National defense. Then repeat the question again, if the senator doesn't remember. National defense, that's right. We forgot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u72	Financing of technical modernisation and reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. And here's the conclusion... It's about 30 million or 50 million, I don't remember moving to another task of international support... You said it was a huge weakening of the potential of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Do you know... Is it possible to finance other tasks from the resources for this task? I'm asking for the upgrade and technical reconstruction of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u73	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u74	I'm not a member of the National Defence Committee, so... But we had this at the committee meeting. ...I have limited knowledge here. And my statement, to make it clear, to clarify this, was about the curiazal amendment for me, which is the proposal to allocate 50 million from the Ministry of National Defence's budget, contrary to the Law on the Modernization of the Armed Forces, contrary to our NATO commitments for development aid, headed by the Department of Development Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to get closer to the UN's objective. Destiny for development aid. Well, in the opinion of the minority committee this is not the right amendment, it is not the right source. We do not question the need for the Republic to participate in the financing of development programmes in developing countries. Fortunately, Poland is no longer included in developing countries, we are a developed country. According to the information we have recently obtained, income per head in the Republic of Poland already exceeds income in Portugal. The last such information is from today, right? So we do not question the need for the Republic to participate in development programmes offered to third world countries, mainly third world countries, or countries belonging to undeveloped countries, because in Europe there are also such countries, even Moldova, close to us, which is a developing country, but spending money on this from the national defence budget is not the right solution and that is what we are referring to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Malecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u76	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Bierecki, too. Mr. Senator, you said about oncology and financing cancer treatment, that the amount of money is increasing and that this country is spending this money. Here we have already argued that it is not the budget money, it is the money from the National Health Fund, which is actually from the contributions of all the people who work and make up this budget. But you also said, Mr. Senator, this year. It's 11 billion. That's 10%, about 10%. the total budget. In 2015 there were also 10% Mr. Senator, it was just a lower budget for the National Health Fund, but the percentage of cancer treatment expenditure was exactly the same... Senator, please shorten... I have one question, Senator. You said you were bragging about the National Oncology Strategy. Do you know, Mr. Senator, this is nothing new. And that the 250 million has been for 10 years without a raise?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u77	Thank you very much. About the first statement... Well, the National Health Fund funds come from a contribution that all citizens pay, and so do all pay taxes and fund the state budget. As far as NFZ spending is concerned, as I said, in fact, this year's oncology budget is 11 billion, the NFZ budget is 105 billion, so it comes out a little over 10% And that's where we're agreed. As far as resources from the National Oncology Strategy are concerned, this year It is 250 million, but in 2021-2023 at 450 million, and in the following years, 2024 and 2030 at 500 million. This is the data in the adopted program. One more thing I forgot to mention, in this large number of questions, the question is missing. The question was, where do you get more money for health care, the NFZ? Well, of course, it is because Poles' wages are rising, and the contribution is a percentage, but also because unemployment has fallen significantly in Poland, i.e. we have more people working. And by whom? Thanks to who? In the last four years unemployment has fallen well. I will remind you that in 2013 more than 2 million Poles were unemployed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u78	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u79	I have a question for President Grzegorz Bierecki that we should definitely close this issue of development aid. 'Cause I don't think it's about the amount here, it's about the fact that we have a 2,1 factor in the bill. And as far as I remember from the committee meeting, 'Cause my memory's a little lost with Mr. Klein's memory. Mr Skiba, present at the committee meeting, said that a reduction of 50 million would bring the rate down to 2,098%. And the problem isn't that I'm gonna say how much we're passing, it's that we're breaking the bill that the Civic Platform also voted for in the Seym, as I recall, the law in which we decided it had to be 2.1. This is our additional commitment, because NATO's commitment is 2%. But we are internally legally committed to 2.1%. And if we're gonna lower the budget right now... Mr. Senator, one minute, if you could ask me a question... Well, let me put it this way, we're gonna break the bill that we passed, because that bill was also passed by the Senate. So, Mr. Chairman, if I remember correctly, that's one thing. And the second question is: Only 30 seconds for Senator Czarnobaj, because I am a senator from Jelenia Góra... But you... But wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute... But it's for the Senator rapporteur... It's for me, it's for me, I'll hear it. Yes, to see Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. As I recall, those lines that were shown... This is the aid which is from the European Union for combating pollution, within the framework of the ZIT, Integrated Territorial Investments of the Jeleniogóra agglomeration. And this... Two minutes. ...realizes the Marshal's company, the Krkonoše Regional Development Agency, with which the current government has nothing to do with it. Can you do that too, Mr President? Is that for Mr. Grzegorz Bierecki? So it's hard to accuse the government that the Marshal Company... Mr. Senator, it's been three minutes... ...realizes his program anyway... It's important... ...to use European funds if Senator Czarnobaj hadn't noticed. But if you read in different places... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...so you could come to the same thing. I'm sure it's on the Internet. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u80	Thank you very much. I'll answer very briefly, we'll save time in this way. Yes, you remember very well the senator. Indeed, the Minister pointed out that by 0,002% We will fall below this statutory requirement. So the value given at the committee meeting... The Commission was aware, accepting this amendment, of the value of this decline and of the fact that it would be below the statutory value. And thank you very much, sir, for your information. I agree with that information you gave about Jelenia Góra. All senators have certainly noted that this is not a government program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u82	Senator Bierecki. I'll try to ask three quick questions to fit in a minute. You said at first not to use this budget debate for political purposes, right? Do you think that paying the 13th pension just before the elections is not a political use of the budget? I happen to have information, the bookmark opened for me: Andrzej Duda signed a thirteen for pensioners. A ceremony like the Oscars' hand, Popek leading. So is the 13th pension policy or not? That's the first question. Second question. This is about the amounts that are spent on health care. Let's assume there's 11 billion oncology. Mr. Senator, how much more expenditure on on oncology is increasing, but net? Because talking about gross amounts is lying to reality. The cost increases, the labour costs rise, the cost of materials, everything gets more expensive. Do you know the increase in oncology expenditure, but net? That's the second question. And the third question. Do you know the extent to which the tasks entrusted to local governments are underfunded? Because the money saved in the budget because... Mr. Senator, please be brief. ...in view of the fact that tasks are being shifted on the shoulders of local governments... To your knowledge, civil status offices cost 300 million zlotys thrown on the shoulders of local governments despite the fact that this task should be financed by the government. Do you take into account the fact that part of the money in the budget is because the government has shifted its tasks to the shoulders of local governments? Thank you. Three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u83	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u84	Thank you very much. As far as the first question is concerned, which is 13 for pensioners, I am very happy about this event, from this signature by the President. Let me remind you that there have been some difficulties with this. The Senate amendment, which was accepted by the majority of the Senate, did not make it so easy to say, so gently, that this 13th payment was carried out and, in the opinion of many, prevented it from being made impossible. That's not true. I'm just talking about opinions, I know she was making things harder. It is good that the Sejm rejected this amendment and that the funds were assured that they were going to receive this thirteenth. For me, this programme is important not only because it supports people who are in difficulty, and pensioners belong to this poorer group of our citizens who bear the costs of age, so well... We know that. But how did you... ...that these resources go to them. And from an economic point of view, ladies and gentlemen, this is a classic stimulation of the economy, stimulation of consumption. We are glad that this money goes to pensioners because it will help them to live better, but we are also happy with entrepreneurs who will sell it to pensioners. And there will be fourteens and fifteens? Let's hope there's a 14. It's announced by the government, and it's gonna happen, too. And when it comes to the revenue of local governments... I'm sorry, but you didn't answer my question. Mr. Senator, but please... You'll be able to ask a question in a minute, okay? With regard to the revenues of local governments, they have recently increased significantly over the last four years. I can't find the numbers right now, I'll find them, yeah, I'll find them in a minute. Local government revenue has increased significantly... But it's all our fault. ...though I know not all of them. I know that there are local governments in those regions where Poland is depopulation, in which income from participation in PIT falls. But that's not what I asked. I think the question of funding local governments should be... ...Advices commissioned... This is also because the question about the funding of local governments is a question about what local governments are supposed to do and from what sources they have to finance what they have to do. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal... Mr. Senator, I would really like to ask... Government tasks, not government tasks. I'll still let you ask, but please let me give you an answer. I know that the senator is a long-standing self-government officer, hence his emotions when we touch this subject. I have many friends who are self-government, I talk to them and I know that it is certainly necessary to discuss the model of funding for local governments and the scope of tasks that local governments are to carry out, including the shape of self-government. So as not to touch unnecessary political discussion on this matter... I know that here in the Senate we have a lot of self-government experts, senators who have a lot of experience in working in the local government, so maybe it's a good idea to think about solutions that would enable local governments to do their job well and at the same time provide proper funding, appropriate proportions in terms of the budget, but also the proper shape of the local government. That's enough not to open a discussion about local governments because we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you want to ask? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u86	If you don't mind, I'll ask. You haven't answered any of my questions, either the first or the second. I was talking about tasks commissioned, Mr. Senator, not responsibilities of local governments, but tasks that the government has to do and which should be 100% finance. I just gave an example, I said that only civil status offices that are 200 million zlotys, local governments got a job that they had to do on behalf of the government, and they didn't get the money for it. And the third question you didn't answer to me was the increase in expenditure on oncology and general health care, but I mean net. If 11 billion are spent on oncology, much more billions than, let's say, five years ago, what is the increase in net expenditure. I'm not asking for the amount. I'm asking for the net value. Is this really an increase in oncology expenditure? I'm asking because maybe he's not here at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u87	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u88	Thank you very much. Senator, we didn't have any information at the committee on the cost of oncology treatment. We have information on the amount of resources allocated to this. You're asking me about the net. In this situation, I'd have to know the costs that they bear... I'm sure the right knowledge, knowledge about it is in the right ministry... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and the Ministry of Finance knows everything, so I... That's a specific question... the problem that it's about wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. If you don't mind, I'll give it to the Minister, who might find an answer to the question of what would be the net increase in costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u89	Thank you very much. Senator Eve Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u90	Dear Senator... Oh, mike, I'm sorry. Dear Senator... Is that for me? Let me ask you a question. Yes, please. Dry amounts of increase in expenditure, for example oncology Or maybe it's mostly oncology. - What's They're not telling us, they're sobering up reality, and they're leading to false conclusions. These amounts must always relate to the total budget expenditure and their percentage share, as many of us have already said here. Then answer me, using this mechanism: are you able to determine what growth, real increase in the percentage of oncology expenditures we see, for example. Since 2018? It's not about the quota, it's about the percentage. At the moment it is on the level ok. 2.5%. Is there an increase since 2018? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u92	Thank you very much. This question, too, will allow me to pass on to the Minister. I don't have the percentages, especially in the last 10 years, right? Besides, it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting, but... unlike the Minister, I don't have to have complete knowledge. It is the Minister who is obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm addressing Senator Bierecki. I'd like to ask you two questions that I didn't actually get from Senator Kleina. I would like to ask whether the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance was on the table or whether the 10 amendments mentioned were amended in order to increase the fund for the Prime Minister's office, the checks that Senator Klein mentioned... The president. Yes, to the President's Office. Yeah, yeah. And second question. It's about the expenses that, as Senator Kleina said, are being pushed beyond the budget. Do they really affect the deficit? And is it really possible to undermine this balanced budget, to say that it is not sustainable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u95	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u96	Thank you very much. As regards the first question, I said in my introductory statement that the budget presented is prepared in accordance with the principles described for the preparation of the budget law, also in accordance with the expenditure rule. So this document, which we are dealing with here, is, in short, drawn up according to the art. So the stuffing charges here, finding something in other funds... Well, we've always dealt with funds that were non-budget funds in the past years. They have their own economy. That's even the once-in-a-lifetime National Health Fund. It's true, isn't it? Other funds, because their list is long, as you know, and it is also available in the annexes. As far as the President's Office is concerned, I think my esteemed colleague, Senator Klein, may have been mistaken about the increase in spending on the President's Office. Maybe it was the Prime Minister... Yes? The Prime Minister. Okay, I get it. Because as far as the President's Office is concerned, we are dealing with a decrease in the size of the budget by PLN 551 thousand. So the budget of the President's Office for 2020 is more modest and stands at 99.87% what was in 2019. So we don't have any growth here, on the contrary. Savings of 551 thousand PLN. So I think it was a mistake. As I understand it, it was about the Prime Minister's firm, and there these increases are due to other circumstances that the Senator has already explained.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u97	Thank you. Senator Swede would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u98	I'm just here... But it's more like Senator Kleina. Well, as I recall, you also said to the incoming presidential election that there's no telling what the outcome will be, so maybe we'll need a briefing... Of course, it would have to be checked in the transcript. But I know you were talking about the President's Office. And that's why I asked you my question. Thank you. Yeah, I think it's a slip of the tongue. I'll explain... Don't explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u99	Will Senator Kleina explain... Maybe in the debate... In the debate. In a debate? Good. There will be time in the debate. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u100	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have another question for Senator Kleina, and the other one for Senator Bierecki. Maybe I'll start with Senator Kleina, because I'd like to ask you about these issues of increased VAT collection. There you go, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, I have listened attentively to the answer to my first question regarding this amendment of yours, an increase of PLN 4.6 billion in revenue from the tax on goods and services. I have read in quite detail the opinion of the former Deputy Minister of Finance of Miszacho, an expert who has prepared such analytical material for us. At my request. And he says, in his opinion, that, quote: "The plan of tax revenues" In the original submission, i.e. 390 billion with tail, which are due to taxes, including VAT, should be considered to be quite tight. I'm quoting. And now I have a question about that. Did this $4.6 billion of yours result from some expertise, from some material, or is that just your opinion based on some intellectual logic, but not supported by any calculations that indicate why it is actually $4.6 billion, and is it even real? Finally, what was the government's position and the government's assessment of such a proposal? Well, in theory, if this were possible, it would be a very good move on the part of the state budget, because many tasks could be carried out freely. Thank you. Well, that's beautiful.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u102	Mrs Marshal, Mr Senator, the government, the Minister of Finance, had a negative opinion on this amendment and did not support this amendment. Nevertheless, the majority of the committee considered that there were opportunities to raise revenue by taking the measures I mentioned in my first speech when I presented these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u103	Everything? That's it, right? Yes. Well, nothing else could have been here... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u104	So there was no... You don't have any expertise, I don't know, any calculations, estimates of someone who's just come to such conclusions, some material that makes it possible to refer to whether it's realistic or not? Well, because it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u105	It's very realistic. If these actions we have been talking about are going to be taken, then it is very realistic. And on the other hand, of course, this element that the Minister didn't include... There's a drop in influence, after all. What's this? Minister... Well, we just saw this drop in revenue last year and this collapse in taxes. And we believe that there is a need to take new, intensive measures to actually rebuild, to rebuild this very element of increasing the revenue of the State's VAT budget. I noticed one more element. This element of Mr. Professor Bear... The mistress. The mistress. ...the mistress didn't consider it. It's about inflation issues. This, too, is an element that has a significant impact on the result and volume of revenue flowing into the State budget from taxes, especially VAT. So it's worth paying attention to, too. But I think... I have talked about these things before, so I do not want to repeat myself, to make the same arguments that were put forward before. Thank you very much... And I have another question for Senator Bierecki. Yeah, sure. I'm going. There you go. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I'm looking for this indicator right here... 2.1. ... Gentlemen, you said that Minister Skiba said it was 2,98 and falling to 2.098... Yes. Indeed, that is what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u106	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the Senate's budget. Namely, was there any discussion at the committee meeting about this? And is there any justification for this reduction by a significant amount of the Senate's budget? Is there any substantive justification for this? I wish I had some knowledge here. I wasn't at the committee meeting, so I just don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u108	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u109	Thank you very much. During the committee meeting, I asked the head of the Senate Chancellery to come and elaborate on this issue. In view of the reluctance of the majority of the committee to recall the head of the firm, I was satisfied with the explanations that the rapporteurs had presented. These explanations regarding more than PLN 7 million for the Senate Office were actually related to this, this is to be checked in the minutes. That this is the restoration of the amount by which the budget has been reduced in the Sejm. And why did the Sejm reduce these amounts for the functioning of the Senate Office? I think this has to do with the transfer of tasks in the field of care of Poles abroad and Polonia from the Senate to government administration. In his speech, Senator Kleina spoke about 20 or 30 people in the Senate who deal with the examination of applications, dealing with the issue of programmes which were financed by the Senate budget and implemented by various Polish organizations. I assume that this reduction is also due to the issue of transferring these funds to another gestor, but as for the details... I think the Minister is able to give them. Several government institutions receive these funds, these 110 million do not go to one ministry, only to several ministries which are involved in specific types of programmes, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also to the Ministry of Education, etc. This is probably the result of a 7 million,440,000 reduction from the Senate's budget. On the issue of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Panel 'Cause it was the rule committee that requested that the Senate's budget be increased by 110 million for programmes to support Poles in emigration and Polonia. What I'm trying to say is that the committee, the committee... What's the committee's name? Communications... Oh, communication... Thank you very much. [[...]] Thank you very much. The Communications Commission... Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Oh, thank you so much. It's a long name, so if you'll excuse me. We already know which committee it's about. So this committee did not propose such an amendment. It is an interesting event that, in this matter, this committee, which in the Senate is responsible for this range of tasks, has not seen the need to do so. That amendment appeared on the Rules of Procedure Committee, so... Because we're on the board of directors... Yeah, from the rule board. But the amendment did not find any substantive justification from the committee responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u110	Thank you. But if I can ask the senator... Because I had a question about Senator Jackowski's question. There you go. Did it take account of the fact that, by October 2020, the staff of the Senate Chancellery who did this will have to settle the previous tasks, so that they will have to continue to be financed from the Senate Chancellery's budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u111	Given the fact that my request for an invitation to the committee meeting of the head of the firm... The Commission was not able to obtain such information or to ask such questions. So, Mrs. Marshal, I don't have that knowledge, I was prevented from asking questions to the head of the Senate Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski:
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u113	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Bierecki. And I have a request to answer, rather using only numbers. If you don't know something, don't do beletristics and don't say anything about faith. Then let's leave it, faith... You believe in the Clean Air program, but there is no money etc. Now, I'm asking for precise information on the quotas. The government has announced several programmes on adaptation to climate change. This applies to programmes related to drought protection, small retention, retention and microretency programmes. I, honestly, didn't find any money for those programs anywhere. There is some money in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, but rather for investments related to flood protection. As for the quality of their release, I won't say anything here. The little money for maintaining the infrastructure won't really allow... If there was any flood, then, knock on the door, don't... The money that's in the budget isn't enough to cover those needs. I'm also asking the senator not to hide behind the national environmental funds and the regional funds, because the national fund has revenues at the level of... Mr. Senator, long question. That's it, that's the last sentence. It has a revenue of PLN 2 billion 700 million. One billion 400 million zlotys spent on local road funds, we counted the rest on clean air, so there really is no such money. Show me where the money is, where it is written, you as an expert, without faith and without beletristics, only where: position, department, chapter, here and here. I'll be very grateful to you for this, since you're defending this budget so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u114	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u115	Thank you very much. I am the rapporteur for the minority proposal, so as to remind you of the role I am playing here. I would like to tell you that the issues you raised are not covered by the minority proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u116	Thank you. Senator Paweł Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to go back to the Senate Office's budget. First of all, I would like to say that a proposal for a transfer of funds was made at the meeting of the Committee on Immigration, but because of the personal situation of this committee. He didn't get the majority. So that this matter was discussed at the committee meeting. But I would like to ask a different question, and I could actually address this question to both rapporteurs, unfortunately not to the government, because it concerns the Senate Office and the Sejm Chancellery. Do you know that, after the changes that the Sejm has made to the budget, if we were to convert the budget of the Senate Chancellery against the Sejm Chancellery's budget, it would appear that one Member is 10%. More money than one senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u118	Did... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u119	Ms Marshal, High Izbo, this case has not been examined by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u120	Thank you very much... Let's consider this question rhetorical. Thank you very much. The list of questions has been exhausted, and I therefore close the questioning part. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. There's an Undersecretary of State in the room, Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u121	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators! High Izbo! I am very pleased that this discussion has lasted so long and that so many things have already been clarified. I will allow myself in the introduction only briefly to present the budget law and then answer questions. Overall, the 2020 budget reflects all the government's priorities while ensuring the sustainability of public finances over the long term and following all the rules set out by the European Commission and the Public Finance Act. The budget was prepared in the first version as early as mid-year, was adopted normally by the Council of Ministers and forwarded to the Sejm, but due to the principle of discounting another version of the budget was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2019 and sent to the Sejm by the end of 2019 and the budget was adopted by the Sejm on 14 February 2020. What can be said, and what appears as such the main slogan in the media space, I have already talked about it in the Sejm, is that the budget is balanced. I will refer to this in a moment, at the very end, because there are many doubts and many questions on the part of the senators. Therefore, I will refer to this in a moment, but first I will finish discussing the general assumptions that are at the heart of this budget. The expenditure and revenue of the state budget, assuming its sustainability, amounts to PLN 435.3 billion. As I said, the budget meets the fiscal rules of the Public Finance Act and respects the reference values in terms of nominal deficits and government debt, i.e. those parameters which are required of Poland by the European Commission. This budget was based on macroeconomic indicators unchanged in relation to the September project, including on gross domestic product and inflation. From the point of view of public finances, nominal GDP dynamics are crucial here, which, despite the potentially lower growth rate of real GDP and higher inflation than assumed, should not be lower than the explanatory memorandum to the Budget Act. The explanatory memorandum also makes relatively conservative assumptions regarding the development of nominal growth rates of average wages in the national economy, including in the business sector. Current forecasts indicate that nominal wage growth may be slightly higher, to the extent that it should ensure that real wage increases are achieved in the Budget Act, even if inflation is above 2.5%. Although, as I say, the forecasts for inflation and GDP were not revised in relation to the original submission. The payment of the 13th pension mentioned above and the extension of the 500+ family programme to include the first child should also support the growth of real income at the disposal of households. In this context, farm consumption in this year should be a major factor in economic growth. As far as more detailed issues concerning revenue are concerned, the Budget Act predicts that the total revenue of the state budget in 2020 will amount to PLN 435 billion, i.e. by 33.5 billion more than the implementation of the State budget revenue in 2019. This is, you can say, the expected implementation, because the final version of the implementation of all the revenue from the previous year will have at the stage of the budget report. On the one hand, the projected growth in revenues in 2020 is expected to be generated by economic growth while inflation is expected to increase, and on the other hand it will also result from the implemented and currently under preparation of systemic changes. Macroeconomic indicators, which have been adopted and which mainly determine the forecast of revenue, are: real GDP growth of 3,7% 6.1%; average annual price increase of consumer goods and services, i.e. inflation, at 2,5%; average annual wage fund growth in the national economy and nominal pensions by 6.3%; nominal private consumption growth by 6.4%. Of course, in addition to the economic situation in the macroeconomic situation, the revenue collection will be influenced by continuing and taking new measures to further seal the tax system, as well as by measures to reduce the tax burden. This is primarily about the PIT tax, about the changes that were already introduced last year. The actions to be continued with regard to the collection of taxes concern primarily the Information System of the Board of Settlements and the mechanism for analysing the risk of using the activities of banks and SKOKs, the further effects of introducing a split payment mechanism, including the introduction of a compulsory split payment mechanism, the introduction of online cash registers and so-called. Virtual cash registers registering changes in the collection of withholding tax in CIT, the introduction of automatic exchange of information on cross-border tax schemes or developments in the system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road and rail. The revenue forecast also takes into account the already adopted statutory changes in excise duties, in particular on alcohol and cigarettes, the effect of introducing employee capital plans, as well as the effect of the enlargement of the small Social Security Office. As I have already said, tax revenue will also be affected by the measures implemented in 2019. First of all, the reduction in the tax burden on individuals, in particular the exemption from income from work and contract contracts of persons under the age of twenty-six, the reduction in the tax rate of the first tax threshold from 18% to 17%. or an increase in employee income costs. As far as tax revenue is concerned, according to the 2020 forecast, it will amount to PLN 390 billion 400 million. That's nominally 6%. more than expected performance in 2019. The ratio of these revenues to GDP in 2020 should be 16.4%. As far as non-tax revenues are concerned, they should amount to PLN 43 billion in 2020. The ratio of non-tax revenues to GDP will be 1.8%. In the Budget Act, based on current data The National Bank of Poland regarding the financial result is planned to contribute to the state budget. As far as expenditure of the state budget is concerned, as I have already mentioned, the budget expenditure limit is equal to the forecast of revenue of PLN 435 billion 300 million and is higher by PLN 19 billion 100 million, i.e. than planned in the budget law for 2019. 4.6%. The share of government expenditure in GDP is expected to fall in 2020 and will reach 18.3% against 18.6%. in 2019. As I said, the Act provides for the continuation of the government's previous priorities as well as the implementation of new tasks This is what I have already mentioned, among others. 500+ or good Starts, but also the budget takes into account all statutory pathways relating to expenditure related to GDP, i.e. in terms of health, culture, science and national defence. As far as the public finance sector is concerned, the planned deficit of the public finance sector in 2020 should, according to the EU methodology, be 1,2%, as expected. GDP, as I have already mentioned, is below the reference value for the general government nominal deficit, which is 3% GDP. In nominal terms, public debt is expected to rise by PLN 46 billion to PLN 1 trillion 39 billion 800 million, with this most significant debt-to-GDP ratio being projected to continue to decrease and forecast to fall to 43.8%. GDP of 44.4% in 2019. To sum up, I'm going to say that this budget is fulfilling all the tasks that the government has set itself. It is balanced, which means that the revenue of this budget is equal to expenditure, which means that we have to cover expenditure in the revenue of the budget. At the same time, it follows the fiscal rules set by the European Commission and the Public Finance Act. Debt for GDP continues to decline and debt handling costs continue to fall. And to answer right away, whether by referring briefly to what we have in the budget of the state for 2020... maybe I will immediately address this main question or this main issue, i.e. the balance of the budget, to what it means. This is the case, and it has been since the beginning of the budget after the breakthrough, that the budget obviously does not cover the whole public finance sector. It covers an essential part of it, about half of all public expenditure includes the state budget. And for the first time now, we are faced with such a situation that this fundamental part of the public finance sector is sustainable. Of course, all public finances as a whole are not fully balanced. But like I said, the deficit forecast for the end of 2020 is 1.2%. GDP. This is still, after deficit in 2018, the lowest deficit in the public finance sector since it is measured under this methodology at all. There was talk of spending outside the budget. As I say, the part of expenditure that is covered by the state budget is balanced. Some spending is not sustainable, but, as I say, the deficit is 1.2%. GDP. However, always, from the very beginning a certain part of the expenditure No, about half of the expenditure of the public finance sector It wasn't sustainable, but, as I say, this imbalance this year is projected at such a level that it will be the second best result in history. It's obvious that part of... The scheme is so constructed that part of the expenditure is not included in the budget. These are primarily the expenditure of local government units, but also the expenditure of the various funds that have been created over the years, the various funds which have different status, which are managed by different entities and which are included in the EU's methodology in the public finance sector. This is the case with, for example, the National Road Fund or the Railway Fund, which are outside the state budget, which are managed by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This is also the case with the Solidarity Fund, the Labour Fund, etc., etc. As we compare the situation in this year and in previous years, we will see that we are dealing with a situation in which financial imbalances are relatively small As I say, the second lowest ever At the same time, a large part of the public finance sector is sustainable. So far it has been that all state budgets since 1991... Here we have to give justice, that in 1990 we had a surplus of 200 million PLN, but it was a rather specific budget. Since then, we have a balanced budget for the first time. These deficits have always existed and have been added to the deficit of the entire public finance sector. A large part of this deficit in the public finance sector was due to the state budget, and that is why we had deficits, as has already been mentioned here, of 3%, of 4%, etc., etc. This part of finance is now sustainable. Is that bad? Is that an accusation to be made here? Well, not really, because if we put it all together, we're gonna have a balanced budget and a low deficit in the public finance sector, which is based on out-of-budget expenditure. These expenditures have always been, but to these non-budget expenditures, also unsustainable, there has always been a government deficit of 1%, 2% GDP. It's not here this year. That's the difference, that's the idea of this balanced budget. This fundamental part of the expenditure of the financial sector is sustainable. As if in advance of the questions about sustainability of the budget and whether it is right or wrong, I would say this: well, that's good, because, as I say, the costs of debt service are falling, the share of debt in GDP is falling, and so more money can be spent on expenditure. As has been said here, this is the largest budget in history, and at the same time all expenditure of this budget is covered in income. So much for the introduction. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Yes. Senator Paweł Arndt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Minister has devoted a lot of time in his speech to the issues of the deficit, but I would like to ask such a more detailed question. Minister said the deficit in the public finance sector would be 1.2% GDP. And what would be the deficit of the local and government sector if these one-off measures were excluded? I mean this transformation fee related to OFE, the profit of the National Bank of Poland, the license for 5G. It's like an extra income this year, which isn't gonna happen in the future. If you subtract them, what would be the sector deficit? I also have a second question. What is the share of rigid expenditure in total expenditure in the draft budget or in the 2020 budget? And would the Minister be able to tell you what he was like in 2019 and what are the projections of these shares in the following year or in the following years? And one more question I've asked you before to Senator Bierecki. The Minister reiterated that the increase in pensions this year would be 6.3%. I don't really know how to figure that out. If it's officially said that it's going to be 3.25%, then where's 6.3%? ?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, please, three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u125	As for this first question, it is put a little bit in such a way that it is difficult to answer. We have a stabilizing spending rule that this budget holds on to. And if there were no one-off measures, there would be no expenditure resulting from these one-off actions. In other words, it would not have been possible to create such a budget with such... I mean, legally it would not have been possible to create a budget with these expenses if these activities had not been. So, like, a question... In fact, you can't answer that question. He couldn't be so... The deficit would be the same, so the budget would be balanced. As far as rigid expenditure is concerned, it is difficult to answer this question unambiguously because it depends on what we consider to be rigid expenditure. Well, if we consider it a rigid expense, for example. salaries... All determined by the laws adopted. Yeah, but salaries aren't determined by the laws, and yet they're accepted as rigid expenses. Well, it could be assumed that salaries are generally reduced, but this is generally not assumed because people have to do the tasks they do. So you could really say that it's about 80%. the budget. Well, it's not good, but it's always been, unfortunately. Reinforcing expenditure would actually require systemic work in respect of such rigid or quasi-rigid expenditure as expenditure arising from the organisation or in general the structure of the administration or changes in terms of just pensions, or would require systemic changes in the requirements that I mentioned that this budget meets them, i.e. expenditure-to-GDP ratio. Some of them, like for example. in the case of health and national defence... These expenditures or expenditures are increasing in relation to GDP, i.e. the budget is becoming stiffer in this respect. Year by year this is increasing in terms of GDP, there must necessarily be more resources, so as if this... Assuming that nothing is changing precisely in areas such as wages, from the very fact that there are laws that relate to expenditure on GDP, it appears that this budget is becoming more rigid. But such a design has existed or has always functioned. This is, of course, often a problem for the finance minister, how to put this budget in a way... or how to fit these expenses that are extra, except for the stiff ones, but that's about 80% I don't remember... Retirement. Retirement... Maybe I'll leave that question to you, and I'd like to think for a second about how to construct the answer, and I'd like to ask for another one, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u126	Then you'll ask Senator Swede a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you one thing. Generally speaking, we are talking here about the 2020 budget bill, not about non-budget funds, but I would like to ask... Also because of this historic situation, that for the first time we have a budget without a deficit No, there has never been such a situation in the history of the Third Republic. I would like to ask you about what Senator rapporteur Kazimierz Klein was talking about and what the opposition senators are talking about, and they are talking about pushing some funds outside the budget, whether there is an extra-ordinary situation in relation to previous annual budgets, an emergency situation in order to be able to talk about some extortion. Well, I don't think she's here, but I'm gonna ask the Minister here to explain and refer to these charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u128	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u129	This slogan or this, I would say, is that the wording "pushing" has emerged in the context of a really stabilizing expenditure rule. I mean, if there wasn't a stabilizing spending rule, that phrase wouldn't have come up at all. There have been such allegations that, by carrying out various tasks in non-budget forms, funds are being pushed out of the budget. But as I said at the beginning, referring to the issue of a balanced budget, the budget is constructed in a fairly clear way, from always... I mean. is part of the expenditure that is implemented outside the budget. In turn there are certain movements between these spheres, but they do not differ specifically from movements that were made from the very beginning. I mean, there have been different methods that have improved or worsened the budget itself, but the scale of non-budget expenditure is similar. So that there were mechanisms like, for example, loans to the Social Insurance Institution, but they might as well be loans, and they might as well be grants. Some are included in the government budget deficit, others are not included in the government budget deficit. There are expenses, as I said, of the National Road Fund, which have also been made and continue to be carried out outside the state budget. There are expenditures of the Labour Fund, which are large and are also made outside the state budget. However, as I said, all the finances... If we combine the deficit that is in the state budget, which we do not anticipate this year, with the deficit of the rest, this combined deficit is, as I said, the second lowest deficit in history. Therefore, it is difficult to say about pushing some funds out of the budget. Some funds have always been outside the budget and so-called. The non-budget has always been in some way an unsustainable budget, but there has been an imbalance in the budget of the country that is not there at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u130	Thank you very much. Yes? I'm just gonna ask. Briefly. Briefly. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, i.e. there is no extraordinary, extraordinary situation here, and in previous budgets the non-budget funds were normally used and there is no talking about pushing out tasks here. Well, yeah...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u132	But it wasn't a question, Senator, it was a statement. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you these questions I've been asking Senator Kleina about. Namely, from Senator Kleina's statement. I understood that he basically accused the government of not being able to levy in an appropriate manner a tax on goods and services, i.e. the so-called. VAT, and proposed its amendment increasing the revenue of the State for this reason by PLN 4.6 billion. And I'd like to ask the Minister to comment. Is that even... Do you agree with Senator Kleina's view that the possibility of downloading these funds is realistic or not? And second of all, is... What is the government's attitude towards this amendment? And I would also like to ask the Minister about the Senate's budget. What is the government's position on this reduction? Because, as I understand it, in the initial budget submission, the Senate's budget was at the level it was at, but in the course of the Seym work it was reduced. There was an argument that this was a question of reducing the Senate's task pool in connection with the decision to finance Polish projects not by the Senate, but by the government, by various government agendas, but the people who work at the Polish Office, it seems, 26 people It's... Senator, you've been asking a question for over a minute. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But it's been over a minute. I just want to finish my sentence, ask you a question. You're welcome, sir. However, should these measures not be restored, as workers have to settle these tasks by the end of October? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u134	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as this amendment on the increase in income is concerned, first of all, I must say that the government is against it, because if we saw an opportunity to increase revenue from it by PLN 4 or PLN 4.5 billion, we would take this into account in the original government project sent to the Sejm. According to our... The forecast of revenue is created according to our best knowledge and our best calculations, so here must be a negative opinion, because we do not see such a space. Especially since the senator mentioned here an opinion on the revenue of the state budget, and maybe I wouldn't go so far that the possibility of raising this revenue is very tense, but we certainly have to face the fact that there may be an economic slowdown... We think that it will go smoothly, but I would not be convinced that it is possible to increase revenue by PLN 4.5 billion next year. Therefore, I must take a negative view of this. But this is not due to any difficulties or inability on the part of the Ministry of Finance, because these actions, which are being undertaken in the area of tax sealing, are still ongoing, are still being conducted, but we cannot abstract from the economic situation and possible anticipated slowdown. So that I can say that we could not support this amendment. As far as the Senate is concerned, I would not like to refer specifically to this discussion. The Senate budget was incorporated by the Ministry of Finance into the rest of the state budget and forwarded to the Council of Ministers without amendments, in this form it was submitted to the Sejm because the Minister of Finance and the Government could not interfere with the Senate budget. It was the Sejm's own decision to reduce these measures, I understand. As far as Polish issues are concerned, this was related to the new law on departments and the taking over of tasks by the executive authority. As regards the reduction of costs in general, those other than the Polish issue, I can only say that in principle all the entities referred to in Article. Article 139 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Public Finance Laws, i.e. those that create the budget themselves, had reduced budgets. Since they can present a budget without government interference, this budget is always a little overstated, it happens every year, and in fact every year these amounts are reduced to about the level of the government administration. But this is not done by the government, in this case the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u136	Already, Minister? Yes? Thank you very much. Marshal Borusewicz is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u137	Minister, please tell me: is there any clearly separate amount in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for actions against ASF, i.e. bioinsurance, for farmers, hunters? Is there a clear sum available for this purpose? There you go, Minister... Oh, one more thing, I'm sorry. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Are there any increases or more money, including increases, for veterinary inspection? This is the basic institution that fights this ASF.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u138	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u139	There isn't one place where it's written that it's on ASF. In general, the costs of such tasks are carried out through measures to combat infectious animal diseases. Of course, the largest pool is intended for the fight against ASF, but it is in different places, i.e. in the voivodship budgets in item. 12 special reserves, that is the reserve for the eradication of infectious animal diseases, monitoring of chemical and biological residues in animal tissues, animal products and feed, etc., etc., as well as in poses. 8, i.e. co-financing of EU programmes, as well as in the functioning of veterinary inspections, and that is about 1 billion 200 million. So it's written in different places. As far as veterinary inspection is concerned, the salary increase was already in 2019 and the budget for the operation of veterinary inspections is increasing by more than 12% in 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Since it has been announced that there will be subsidies to offset the rise in electricity prices of more than PLN 2 billion, please tell me where they are in the budget. That's one question. Two. In some environmental income... I understand that these 12 billions are the proceeds from the CO2 bill. These amounts are assumed to be allocated to environmental measures. Would you kindly point out to me within the total budget expenditure the main sources to which these revenues from emissions are intended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u143	As far as the first question is concerned, from what I understand, this compensation for electricity prices has only been foreseen since 2021. There is therefore no such thing in this budget. That's not true, because it was last time. She was last... And it'll be next time. ...and he'll be next. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, well, you have to read... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Legislative work is underway on this solution, but this is not in the 2020 budget. As far as the second question is concerned, this is generally the revenue of the state budget. Therefore, in a large part, these CO2 revenues are planned for the State budget. And since these are revenue from the State budget, according to the principle of non-funding or not allocating specific revenue for specific expenditure, they simply constitute revenue from the State budget and are allocated to all tasks that are carried out within the budget. Part of these measures Maybe that's what the senator was talking about. In the amount of almost PLN 1 billion, 800 million is allocated to the Mid-Emission Cost Compensation Fund, but these are not the funds that are really intended to equalise prices for consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Michael Sewerinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u145	Minister, we have been hearing for a long time, with optimism that the budget is balanced. But perhaps the government also takes into account some threats that hang over this budget, because it is not realized in a vacuum. Could you tell us what are the most serious possible threats? Which should be taken into account and on which may this real implementation of the balanced budget depend?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u147	Thank you very much. Well, these are all the factors that really affect every state budget in every financial year. Surely what is most important and what we constantly monitor, we observe, on the basis of which we also create our forecasts and on which we base our budget, is of course that I will take this briefly, cyclically and externally. We're seeing signs of economic slowdown. We're expecting this slowing down, but we're hoping... There is no indication that this slowdown will be drastic, but we expect it to be, and therefore the GDP growth forecast is ultimately lower than in 2019. And that's what we consider most of all. Of course, there have now also been voices on the spread of Coronavirus, which can, of course, affect the global and European economy, but it is difficult to say what this will actually have and how this epidemic or whatever it is going to be called. For the time being, we are monitoring the situation and we hope that the countries in which it is taking place will deal with this fairly quickly. But there is, of course, such a threat. It fits into these threats, so to speak, the external ones that are. However, it must be said that our economy is quite resilient to such very drastic or violent movements outside the borders. Rather, we can see that the slowness that comes to us slowly and reaches in such a very, very mild dimension. Therefore, we do not see any such very, very drastic threats that would order us to preserve, I do not know, e.g. some special budget reserve for this sort of thing. However, it is always the case that the state budget in these... Or rather, the Minister of Finance, providing revenue and expenditure for the state budget, is always a bit in the middle. This means that these forecasts are conservative enough to be able to react during the financial year. And it's been going on in the past and going on. So that the budget is never created for traffic, so to speak. It's made in the most realistic and quite conservative way possible. And these are the main threats. We don't see any special extras yet. Of course, we are also monitoring the situation when it comes to Brexit and further negotiations of the trade agreement with the United Kingdom, but Brexit itself has already taken part and we are not seeing any significant impact on possible forecasts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am still returning to the issue of the deficit of the entire financial sector. In the materials we have that the entire deficit is 1.2%. On the question of how much it would be if there weren't to be one-off events, the Minister said that it couldn't be estimated. Specialists say it would be 2.2% then. But is this a mistake for those who have prepared an opinion? Can you estimate that? That's about the question that the Minister answered, saying all the time what he said. And the question, Minister, is about the funds. Is the Solidarity Fund in the expenditure rule? That's the first question. And two: how many funds have arrived during the four-year term of Law and Justice? Just to be curious. I'll just say there were 29 in 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u150	Is it over? Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u151	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, as far as the first question is concerned, as I said, it's like... Maybe they're miscounting. No, no. This is not about miscalculation, it is about the fact that if we have a stabilising expenditure rule, the budget under this stabilising expenditure rule may include expenditure of a certain amount, which is determined on the one hand by expenditure from previous years and on the other hand by additional receipts. Well, according to the rule, we can count them as income, so we can have higher expenses, but we can't, for example. increase expenditure simply because we have a better economic economy and higher tax revenue, because it is not so-called. Discretionary action or one-off action. And when it comes to such influences as, let's say, CO2 emissions, then the rule design allows us to credit these revenues in such a way that we can not increase expenditure. And now like this: if we include such revenues in the budget and increase expenditure, then they have to balance. As much as we can increase our expenses, if we have more income. If we didn't have these revenues, we couldn't have those expenses at all, and therefore the deficit would still be zero. Well, we couldn't legally increase that spending. So the answer to this question is basically that you can't count it, because it's kind of like this sharing by zero. ...Deficit. We'd have to increase the deficit. beyond what we can legally do, and we can't do that. If there were no such revenue, there would be no expenditure, so the result would remain at zero. There was another question... Mr. Senator... Would you like to ask me a question? No, no... Funds. Funds, number of funds. Yes, 29 was in 2015. The Solidarity Fund is not covered by the expenditure rule, first of all. Secondly, we now have 35 special-purpose funds, which is also... So that there are no misunderstandings: whether there are more funds or less, does not prejudge whether finances are in better shape or worse. That's really what debt and deficit are about. The debt vis-à-vis GDP is falling and the deficit is relatively low, at a level of 1.2%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about a situation that happened at the family committee meeting. When we discussed those parts of the budget that are appropriate to our committee, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy said that a loan of PLN 4 billion was taken into the Labour Fund to finance additional benefits for people unable to live on their own. Well, we asked the question when this loan would start to be repaid, and we were told that it would start to be repaid in 2023, and that the first instalment to be paid in 2023 would not be less than PLN 300 million. A similar mechanism was applied to the 13th pension The Solidarity Fund has borrowed a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. I don't remember when that deposit was supposed to be, but I think something was going on back in 2023. I'd like to ask you where this date came from. Whether you are assuming that there will really be worse years now, and only in 2023 will we be able to pay back this money, or this 2023 is related to other facts, e.g. With an election calendar? If you could explain that, I'd be very obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u155	As far as flows between funds are concerned, these are flows between entities that are not supervised by the Minister of Finance. So we're not fully participating in the settlements here, and we're not deciding on the construction of contracts, and both of these cases are covered by contracts. As far as I know, as far as the 13th pension is concerned, the agreement for the payment of the 13th pension in 2020 has not yet been negotiated between the Social Security Office and the Ministry of Family and Labour. As far as the Labour Fund is concerned, such a loan has indeed been granted. It's hard for me to say if this has anything to do with the election calendar. Because how would that improve or worsen the situation of one of the parties that would run for office? The repayment of PLN 300 million to the Labour Fund will not particularly be of financial importance to this fund, because the level of resources in this fund is relatively high. Payments of 300 million will not specifically affect the ability of this fund to carry out its tasks. Those drugs all the time over there. In quotation marks They're hanging. As a result, I find it difficult to relate to why since 2023... Of course, it is not that the Minister of Finance does not see such movements in the budget at all. No. But, as I say, we don't directly oversee it. I'm sure it's safe for the Labour Fund, i.e. By 2023, the Labour Fund will manage without these 4 billions and will cope with the proceeds of 300 million in the years to come. In general, it is so designed as not to disrupt the functioning of one or the other fund. As for the election calendar, I don't want to speak. I don't see such a shift here. I don't know why paying from one fund to another, and not a significant amount of money, would somehow be linked to the electoral calendar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Victor Durlak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u157	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, budget without deficit is, you know, very good news for us, for Poland, for Poles. I'm just wondering... You said earlier that it is logical that the debt vis-à-vis GDP is falling. And I have a specific question: what is the percentage of debt compared to GDP today? How has this developed over the last five years? Can we say that we're finally really extending? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u159	Debt levels are falling from 44.4% this year. GDP to 43.8% This is forecast at the end of 2020. And that's the trend. For several years, debt levels have been decreasing. Of course, nominally, it's increasing a little bit, but it's clear. In the Seym and in the Senate, I always say that the most important parameter is the debt-to-GDP ratio, which is really the debt-to-debt-to-payment parameter, and it falls from 44.4%. up to 43.8% This year. The trend is that this debt in relation to GDP is actually getting smaller. This also reduces the cost of debt service, so more money can be spent simply on other expenses, because we do not have to handle debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said the Labour Fund is in good shape. Could you tell me, if you don't mind my asking, what's the status of this fund? That's the first question. Two. Minister, last week we had, as a committee on budget and finance, a debate on inflation, an expensive one. There were also many observations and comments about the government. 4.4% In January, I think it's an indicator that says we can do these. 2,5% within a year not achieved. Do you, as a government, see any way to manage excessive price increases in goods and services?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u162	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u163	As far as the second question is concerned, I was on vacation, but I followed up on this discussion. Mr Skiba spoke quite extensively about this, and since he is dealing with a large part of macro issues with us, I do not have much to add. First of all, it is not entirely the government's task to control inflation. Of course, we monitor what is happening and react to various phenomena, but in fact, when it comes to inflation, it is the task of the Monetary Policy Council and the National Bank of Poland. If something drastic were really going on, there'd probably be some action going on, and I can't tell you what it is right now. But we also assume that, despite this initial increase in inflation at the end of the last quarter and at the beginning of this year, it is very likely that this assumed inflation year by year will eventually be achieved, and even if not, it will not be such a drastic change as we would possibly talk about. So the government has quite limited capacity to influence inflation, because this is the operation of the market, and monetary policy, as I say, is being dealt with by the Monetary Policy Council and the Central Bank. As far as the Labour Fund is concerned, the situation at the beginning of the year is about PLN 22 billion 700 million and the cash is PLN 18.5 billion. That's pretty much the scale of the measures that are. So that the issue and the loan of 4 billion, and the repayment of 300 million, is not particularly important. Mr. Marshal, can I just ask one question... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u164	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u165	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I understand that in terms of reducing costs and inflation, the government has no means of action. Yes? That's how I understood your statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u166	Not only is it not possible to act, but it is not the task of the government to really regulate pricing policies and regulate the market. Of course, government actions affect these parameters, but it is not directly the government's task to respond to some changes in these parameters, especially if these parameters do not change drastically. And we're not predicting that, and so is the budget, that these parameters are going to change dramatically. I'm sure it's required here. And that's what Minister Skiba was talking about at the meeting. Good cooperation between the National Bank of Poland and the Minister of Finance in monitoring everything that is happening. But And that's what the minister was talking about. The Monetary Policy Council does not inform the Minister of Finance about future actions, whether to lower or increase interest rates. It's the same thing that works. The other way, I mean. the government does not directly inform the Monetary Policy Council about its activities Although let us add here that these government actions do not usually occur suddenly, as they go through the whole legislative process, so it is kind of more visible and happens in a little longer period. Thank you very much. No further questions... I'll still, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Because I didn't answer one question about... Yeah, retirement. And the bonds? There you go. As far as pensions are concerned, it's a little difficult for me to get to the end of this raise by 6.5%. because the assumptions about the valorization of pensions are so-called. Emerging inflation from 2019 plus 20% the average wage, which is 6.5%. So maybe there was some kind of a lie about the 6.5%. Overall, the value of pensions is about 3.24%. As far as bonds are concerned, actually during the process of so-called. The Science 2.0 Law provided for the supply of bonds to universities, which was... It's the same this year. The Around Budget Act also provides for a certain amount of funds to be transferred to universities in the form of bonds. It was agreed or done as if at the request of the Minister of Science and Higher Education. These are, in fact, additional measures in relation to what is apparent from the Law on Science and Higher Education, i.e. the appropriations for the "Sciences' heading have been allocated at a value-added and corresponding to GDP of an appropriate amount, in accordance with the Act. So that here we didn't reduce anything as part of this process of valorization when it comes to the bill. But because, according to the information the Minister of Science gave us Which, by the way, also passed on at various meetings of committees, and of the Seyms, and of the Senate... These funds transferred under the bonds were well-liked Let me put it this way, in quotes. By higher education institutions, because this means that they have not marked funds and annual funds, but funds for the implementation of investments, and they can make investment commitments under these bonds. That is why we have also decided this year to take this step. But, as I say, these are additional resources to what the Science Act provides for. So that's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u167	Thank you very much. I have one more question for the Minister. I understand that these bonds are both liked by those who receive them and are well received by the Ministry of Finance. Do you envisage extending this form of possible support, let's call it socially important projects or possibly stepping up funding for these or these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Ministry of Finance, we rather avoid such mechanisms. Just here because, first of all, it was an additional mechanism, and secondly, supporting R &amp; D tasks, we decided to continue this year, but we do not expect this kind of funding to become some sort of overarching financing, outside of budget financing, because it also disturbs a bit of the picture of what is happening on the market. It's on one side. On the other hand, it is a good form for the Minister of Finance, here in the case of universities, that the transfer of bonds is not a budget expenditure, but it is not an expenditure in the sector, and until these bonds are realized, that is, they will not be cashed, and the funds will not be spent, until there is no expenditure in the financial sector, and at the same time universities are secured, they have a guarantee to make commitments. At the same time, the mechanisms introduced by the Act are such that the Minister of Finance's approval to liquidate these bonds is required in order to protect itself against expenditure, i.e. already before this exit from the sector. Therefore, the Minister of Finance has maintained control over what expenditure is made outside the sector from those already cashed bonds. So that this is an instrument a little bad, and a little good, so I would say, such a compromise, but it gives safety or some additional opportunities to universities, as I say, outside the Law on Science and outside the valorization, and at the same time it is safe for the Minister of Finance, because if he sees that expenditure in the sector is too big, then he may not allow in a given year to cash these bonds, just move it e.g. for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u169	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Bury a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u170	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the bonds, because here the rapporteur, I am sorry, not the Member, the rapporteur, Mr Bierecki also spoke about the bonds in euro, about the fact that we placed these bonds so well. Is the money raised under these bonds in euro spent on some kind of rolling of other bonds or our liabilities as liabilities expressed in euro, or is the money converted into gold and therefore at risk of exchange rate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u171	This is actually a question of debt management and debt diversification. Depending on how the profitability of which bonds is shaped, depending on how demand and the market are shaped and how the exchange rate is shaped, so the Minister of Finance reacts, so he lets the bonds go. And this is... You can't say they're going for it or they're going for it. Depending on the situation... The debt is treated as a whole, according to the strategy, and they are not somehow targeted or divided on either that or that. If it turns out that the market situation is that it is better to hold funds in euro, then they are held in euro if there is a better rate, then they are cashed. So it can't be said that specific bonds are spent on some specific... But the question is, if by comparing the budgets for the previous years and the year that has passed and the budget that we are planning... Will euro debt increase or decrease? All the time. And that's also the trend for a long time. It is happening that these ratios are being changed in terms of debt at home and abroad, in favour of debt at home. This trend continues all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u172	Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u173	I think I'll be the last person to ask, Mr. Marshal, Minister. A quick question to satisfy my curiosity. For many years there has been so-called. a programme to clean up the country from asbestos. It was a programme planned for the years 2009 to 2032. And all this is actually about our health and environmental protection. This has been foreseen in these years, if I'm not mistaken, about 40 billion, which is a little over 1.5 billion a year. What does it look like? Is this program still working or not? And is there anything in there this year? Is the government, the Ministry of Finance, thinking about it? And how much was spent? And how much was spent? 'Cause actually, it's like she died a natural death. Am I wrong, or is it really?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u174	This is the development minister's program. He's still functioning. The funds are saved in part 20 of the economy. These funds come mainly from local government units. With that last question, I'm a little confused by the senator because I can't answer... Maybe in writing. ...specifically on the question, what exactly are the measures this year. We can respond in writing in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u175	I propose that the Minister respond in writing. Yeah, yeah. I just declared it would be. Since there are no further questions, I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that in discussions on the Budget Act, senators are not allowed to submit applications for rejection of the Act, because according to the article. 223 of the Constitution of the Senate may adopt amendments to the Budget Act within 20 days of the date on which it was handed over to the Senate. Who signed up for the discussion first? Senator Swede. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are considering the budget law for 2020, a law in which for the first time in the third Polish Republic the revenue and expenditure of the state budget is planned for the same amount of PLN 435 billion 340 million, which means that there is no budget deficit. Thus, this is a historic moment, because for the first time the government's debt in relation to GDP will decrease, the government's debt will also decrease. This is a budget in which all areas important for Poles have been given priority. Health expenditure is record high and will amount to PLN 108 billion, with 75 billion still in 2015, i.e. the PO-PSL government. The expenditure on the oncology itself, which is so often referred to and which we also regard as a priority, will increase to over 11 billion, with 7.1 billion at the end of the PO-PSL governance in 2015. In addition, it should be remembered that already in May 2019 the President signed the Act on National Oncology Strategy. The implementation of this strategy offers an opportunity to increase the detection of cancer in early stages, to reduce mortality and to reduce the costs borne by patients. This year, the National Oncology Network should cover Poland as a whole, and for its implementation the Law and Justice government has planned PLN 5 billion: PLN 250 million already in 2020, PLN 450 million annually in 2021-2023 and half a billion annually in the years 2024-2030. Returning to the budget, I will mention that social spending in the 2020 budget is increasing equally significantly. It is 500+ from the first child, paid since 1 July last year, and is 500 PLN for people with disabilities. We invest in Polish families, while reducing taxes. We have reduced CIT from 19 to 9%, so that it is currently one of the lowest taxes on companies in Europe. We introduced a small ZUS, we also lowered PIT from 18 to 17%. and introduced zero PIT for young taxpayers. As a result of the change in policies towards people with disabilities, we are spending significantly more money on this group. In 2020 it will be 27.5 billion, which is 12 billion PLN more than in the reign of the already mentioned PO-PSL coalition. Actions for people with disabilities have also taken place, among others. increase the care provision and increase the social pension and pay the so-called 500+ for independents. This is the measure of how we treat solidarity, social justice. This is also a measure of our economic and tax effectiveness. The budget is guaranteed, among others. appropriations for the 6-percent increase in salaries for teachers, social programmes, implementation of infrastructure programmes, road and rail investments, including our major programme for the construction of local, municipal and district roads, i.e. the Self-Government Road Fund. It is worth recalling here the opposition's opinions as early as 2015, when the disaster was announced after the retirement age and implementation of our flagship programmes, including primarily the 500+ programme. According to these opinions, within a year, two years everything was supposed to collapse, but nothing like that happened. Let's sum up: from the beginning of the 500+ programme to December 2019 we have allocated PLN 95 billion to Polish families. In 2015 1,75% of Polish families were allocated GDP, 4% in 2020. We've got 46 months behind us. The average Polish family received the amount of PLN 23 thousand per child. Polish families themselves assessed the situation in which they were in the previous governments and in which they are now. This was reflected in the huge social mandate that the Law and Justice had been given in the previous parliamentary elections. Today, after 4 years of implementation of our programme, we can clearly and clearly say that the proposed 2020 budget, a budget in line with government plans, is a great success of Law and Justice. Despite the fact that these great programs were a great challenge, we implement them, we manage them and we are determined to continue to support Poles, Polish families, and to do it courageously, but also responsibly. I fully support the proposed budget law for 2020. I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the entire Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, for the 2020 budget, the budget with major social projects and the first budget without deficit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u177	Senator Małecka-Libera will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, this debate, a very important budget debate, listens to thousands of patients, thousands of cancer patients, their families, loved ones who support them. They listen to her sick people who have trouble getting to the doctor every day, buying drugs that are wandering the system. They hear that the budget is balanced, that there is a lot of money in the system, so they ask why these choices are so impossible, why they are not supported by those areas that require it most, among others. That's health care right there. Oncology is, of course, only part of the whole health system, which is underfunded. Everyone's talking about it. Not only doctors, staff, experts, but above all patients. They also speak the rulers. After all, it is the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister, and recently even the President said that health is a priority, that oncology is a priority. So I think it's time to say, "I'm checking." Some time ago, we prepared an amendment on the amount of 2 billion that was to be allocated to oncology instead of public television. It's gone, it's gone in the Seym. Today, for the second time, we are preparing such an amendment, which is already linked to the changes in the budget, because we believe that oncology as one part of the entire bad system, a ruined system requires rapid repair, because the incidence of cancer is increasing enormously. What are the facts, High Izbo? 160 000 disease a year, 100,000 of these people die. However, it turns out that about 30,000 could move on if we had European standards and if innovative medicines were available in Poland. Unfortunately, they're not. The 5-year survival rate is several percentage points worse than in Europe. In our country As the only one, breast cancer mortality is increasing. So I ask the question: does not the Polish patient have the right to be treated as in Europe? Doesn't the Polish patient have the right to access drugs? Is there a need for fundraisers, charity concerts, support for loved ones, so that the sick can have their medications secured? Sick people who have advanced tumor of the third and fourth lines, unfortunately, do not have access to refunded drugs. And you know why? Because the Deputy Minister of Health said there are more important needs. So what's it like with access to finance and treatment? Well, it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that access to the therapies recommended in Europe, unfortunately, is not provided as in the European Union. Of the 101 therapies, only 23 treatments are available according to the standard of treatment, 34 with limitations and 44 are not refunded at all, so doctors cannot treat as required by European standards. In Poland the prevention system was completely disassembled. Screening reporting decreased to 39% for breast cancer and 17% for breast cancer. for cervical cancer and WHO recommendation is 75%. Children do not have access to preventive vaccination against HPV and cancer that causes this virus. You're bragging about the National Oncology Strategy. How long has it been working? It was introduced 2 months ago and really replaced the existing multi-annual programme, the National Programme for the Prevention of Cancer Diseases. He was financed by PLN 250 million. The National Oncology Strategy, which has many more tasks, also has 250 million PLN. So where's the extra money? How is that supposed to improve the situation of the sick? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, it is, ladies and gentlemen, a big problem. And that's why we're bringing $2 billion in the prepared amendment. We hope the High House will accept that. It was a big surprise to me that the Ministry of Health's position on this matter was taken. It has given a negative opinion on this amendment. What does that mean? The Minister of Health doesn't want any extra money? And what did the finance minister say? Well, since the Minister of Health has a negative opinion, the Ministry of Finance has no reason to increase anything in the state budget. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, oncology is, of course, part of a neglected and underfunded health system. Even though spending is increasing It has been said many times today in this Chamber, but it is growing because of the increase in health contributions. It turns out that we are not very good against other countries, too. At the moment, we're spending about 4.5%. GDP per capita, while Hungary 5,2%, Czechs 6% , and France 8.7%. This shows the huge gap that separates us from other countries. The government bragged about the bill passed, target 6% GDP was to be achieved in 2024. However, there is no indication that this commitment will be fulfilled in the given year, and this is because the basis for calculating expenditure is the GDP index, which is two years ago. In addition, when the State's multiannual financial plan for 2019 is analysed, it turns out that health expenditure is estimated at 4.5%. No increase in health funding shall be taken into account. No doctors, increasing queues to doctors, mainly to specialists, lack of availability, drug problems All of this is really the everyday life of a Polish patient. All decisions recently taken by the Ministry of Health are not strategic decisions, they are not long-term decisions, they do not solve problems strategically. These are just fragments. And what are the effects, the effects? An example is the hospital network. Hospitals are in debt, bankrupt. At the moment, they have about 14 billion in debt. I ask: where is 14 billion shown in the budget to cover this loss? There's no money. It's just money hidden, rolled, non-existent. What's going on in hospitals? Accidental troops are closing. It's usually done where there's no staff where there's no staff. But do they give health safety to residents? Is their functioning in accordance with needs, with the map of needs? No. It's all a coincidence. Difficult access to specialists, no idea for prevention. Prophylaxis, even though it was a flag case, was so much said that it had to be invested in, that it would have an effect, it was completely disassembled. The National Health Programme doesn't really work at all. Incidentally, I have a question: what is the effectiveness of this program after 4 years? The hospital network completely wiped out the geriatrics. You forgot your senior health care. This is health care: underfunded, disorganized, hostile and dangerous to the patient. Today we are making an amendment on the amount of 2 billion so that at least in part we can help Polish patients and at this point we can act on at least one element of this system. But we promise it's just the beginning. The health system requires a lot of effort, a lot of support and a lot of support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rotnicka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I will try to speak briefly, referring only to certain issues of the entire budget law. I want to talk about the environment. As it happens, the environment is now an element... A man living in this environment is exposed to a lot of bad things: bad air, bad water, bad air pollution. Of course, the primary task is to protect people, or actually us, from these bad influences. And that's what you need money for. I'm looking, ladies and gentlemen, at this budget for planning in the 2020 task force. For environmental tasks, i.e. with water, with biodiversity, with air, climate, we have less than PLN 8 billion for 2020. What is most important and, in my opinion, priority is the matter of air pollution, both through the so-called. greenhouse gases as well as pollutants that come from PM10, PM2,5 and benzoalphapyrene. That's what's hurting us the most, smog. Hence, an amendment came out of the Committee on the Environment to increase the budgetary expenditure on prevention of smog, i.e. the fight against smog, in the amount of PLN 1 billion. As a matter of fact, we don't have an environmental ministry. There is the Ministry of Climate, within which the quality of water is located, Polish Waters, is the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping, forestry is located in this area, there is an environmental fund... There's this mess, and you don't really know how to relate to it. And biodiversity is a very important task and, therefore, we also want to give the municipalities some kind of support so that they can obtain compensation for the management of forest resources within national parks. And this is the amount for current tasks and for property expenses of PLN 200 million. Ladies and gentlemen, as it happens, this budget does not fully satisfy us, we could add a little more items to it, but we are aware that the budget is not made of rubber and cannot be expanded to the limits. Therefore, in order for more operators to benefit from certain grants, I would also like to make a minor amendment which amends the amendment adopted by the committee at its meeting, which concerns municipalities within which national parks exist. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. That's the amendment. We will vote in favour of these amendments and I ask you to accept these comments, these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski. I cannot deny the pleasure of greeting Senator Tobiszowska, who was the only one who listened to this debate about the budget. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the turn of 1989 and 1990 a local government law was established prepared by the sleeper. Prof. Regulski, by Prof. Kulesza, but also Prof. Stepnia, Prof. Kieres. We accepted it in 1990, March. A few months later, the so-called. a law of competence which divides competences between the local government and the state administration. It was not beneficial for local governments, but, generally speaking, it established limits of responsibility not only in substance, but also in financial terms, between local governments and the state. I must say that by participating in this Senate Chamber in 1996, 1997 in the debates on subsequent reforms, I did not expect that the financial obligations of the State towards local governments would be so often, in short, violated. Today is 2020, the budget law for this year and again the situation in which local governments are being abused by the state, sometimes treated as the lowest level of state administration, unjustly, or as the entity at which, in short, the budget can be saved. From my point of view, this is unacceptable. We have had 30 years of functioning of the local government and it is precisely this year that we should demand that you respect not only local government sovereignty, but also the rights of this level of public administration to, in short, not cheating on finance. And I'm pretty sure that this is a great example of education subsidies, but not only. Before I move on to the issue of education subsidies, I will talk about one important issue which was the subject of the PO-PSL government's activity. It was slowly, peacefully and with responsibility implemented educational reforms. I've never been a big gymnasium enthusiast, but I also knew it was a risk. This middle school was created and a few years ago it gained such high notes in Europe. I am talking about the results of junior high school students. That we were first in the top five of Europe. It is a great success of teachers, local government officials, parents, as well as all those who supported this education. [[Applause]] Today we have a devastated education, and this devastation is not only the cost of a student, a teacher, a school, but it is also the cost for the self-government itself, a cost that has never been properly estimated, and was incurred last year, a year earlier, because it was already an announcement It will also be carried out in 2020. I am not saying today that this increase in certain funding for education is not an increase compared to what we had in 2018 and 2019. But we are unable to make up for the losses that self-government has suffered in the last 2 or 3 years in relation to educational subsidies. I remember the years 2001, 2002, 2003 when small and weak local governments had 100% coverage of education expenses, school expenditures in education subsidies. They were, yes, very wealthy local governments. Mostly those in big cities In addition to the agreement with the State, they voluntarily added resources to education at primary, middle school, high school, professional level. There were therefore allowances, there were smaller classes, there were special classes, there were special professions, preferred by certain local authorities. Because they had the right to do so. It must be noted and respected. But it has never been so that middle and small municipalities have an educational subsidy guaranteeing them that they will be covered by educational expenses of 60, 70 or 75%. There are local governments that spend 50% on education their budget and they receive 50, 60, 65% from the State budget. This is cheating! We have in our legislation a clear state responsibility for these tasks which you have attributed to yourself, starting with this famous law on the division of competences of May 1990, i.e. from the time when the local government elections came to an end. Today I want to talk about two things that are crucial. Of course, we will propose an amendment to help local governments maintain these responsibilities and tasks, which the State has committed to finance under its responsibility. But we will also talk about the efforts of local government officials who have brought education to a good level, despite this deformity that happened to us a few years ago. And one last, very important thing for me. We have different factors used by the state, which are used by self-government. Some hope that the State's financing of its own liabilities is 88% , others say it's 60% There are also calculations that show that it's somewhere between these sizes. But there are no calculations that show that the state is doing 100%. with our own commitments, at the best times of the European, global economy, and also when we have the budget I hear you're in It's sustainable. If it's so good, why is it so hard for these self-governments? Why on every occasion do they have to ask the State, from the Ministry of Finance, to fulfil those obligations which are enshrined in specific laws and in the Constitution itself? If we want Poland to be modern, open, if we want to think not about yesterday and today, but about tomorrow and the next years, then we need to think about children, we need to think about education, we need to think about education. And we must remember that saving on education by reducing funds for local government, we limit the quality of our future and the strength of the Polish state. And that can't be allowed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u183	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I will continue the topic of Senator Zdrojewski's speech, perhaps more documenting with figures the financial situation of the local government at the moment. I'll start by hearing only good opinions about the decision to reactivate local government 30 years ago. This good opinion has its basis, it has recently been documented by a study of social opinion done by CBOS, published at the end of January 73% That's a good opinion. What's that look from? He's taking it? I will refer to the period since the introduction of the Local Government Income Act in 2003, which began to operate fully in 2004. During this period, local and regional development was unprecedentedly rapid. I remind you that we started with such a bleak, stern situation still with the Polish People's Republic, and now we have a quite modern state, at the lowest level, with a very good quality of life. During this period, i.e. from 2004 to 2018, the local government invested almost PLN 500 billion, of which 45% It came from an operating surplus, 170 billion from European funds, and the rest from feedback money. Unfortunately, this operating surplus is now decreasing. Each zloty from the operating surplus, according to what I reported, resulted in investments of PLN 2.5 and therefore the reduction of the operating surplus translates into a sharp decrease in the pace of Poland's development. For example, in 2018, the net operating surplus, I stress this, local government units amounted to PLN 14.4 billion, and in 2020 the WPF surplus is 3.2 billion, which is a sharp decline. These are data from the Ministry of Finance coming from WPFs, which all local government units have to establish. The reduction in income due to personal income tax reductions is over PLN 6 billion per year. Plus, there's a sharp increase in spending. Between 2015 and 2018, wages and purchase of services increased expenditure by PLN 20 billion. This is much more than the increase in PIT income in this period, the increase in PIT revenue. Factors most strongly affecting this negative change in the state of local finances, this is the education that my previous speaker spoke about, health and tasks commissioned. I'm gonna be very brief about this. To conclude with this operating surplus, according to these WPFs this year, the net negative operating surplus is to have 32 cities on the rights of the counties, and this is almost half of the cities on the rights of the county, 78 counties and 1070 municipalities. So, contrary to what is, unfortunately, often unreasonably repeated, the situation is dramatically wrong. Now, the subject of education. In 2004, the contribution of local government units to the subsidy amounted to 33%. The subsidy covered 98% wage expenditure. This Decision shall enter 'Cause that's the kind of data I have. Instead of 33% The subsidy subsidies are 54.3% and the subsidy covers only 85% of the wage costs. The financial gap in education is PLN 23 billion 450 million. At the same time, the share of education subsidies in both the state budget and GDP is decreasing. In the state budget, this is a decrease from 12.7% up to 11.04% , and in GDP Of 2,72% Up to 2.04%. So it can be said that the state actually saves on this education, shifting the burden to the municipalities which thus inhibit the necessary development. Self-government has no impact on educational costs, because it is the government that determines the level of wages in education, and for us, i.e. local governments, tools have been taken away, e.g. to create a network of schools. So the costs are created beyond what is necessary, with such underfunding of education. An 8.2% increase in subsidies is planned for 2020 in this budget, which is under discussion. It's a relatively large amount, but this increase doesn't cover the losses that were caused earlier. And what are the losses? This amendment, which was tabled, concerning PLN 4 billion 605 million... This amount has been calculated as follows. That's the result. For the year 2020 3 increases: April 2018, January 2019 and September 2019 respectively by 5,35%, 5% And 4.6%. A summary of these amounts gives this result, 4 billion PLN 605 million. We have provided an increase in VAT revenue as a source. This, of course, may be imperfect reasoning. We don't have a back room like the Ministry of Finance. And by replying to Senator Bierecki at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I said that I had only the knowledge available to the public on this subject. On the basis of this knowledge, it was argued why so, namely that inflation should generate more revenue due to VAT. The fact is that the increase in VAT revenue due to the reduction of VAT fraud seems to have reached its end. And there may not be any more success here. But there's a limit to the gray area, which, according to the experts I'm using, is 11% at the moment. GDP, while in countries that do well with it, it is 4.6% GDP. So there's still an ambitious task that can produce the results that we're hoping for. There are no proposals submitted here, and I think they should be Only that we behave responsibly about income gaps and increased spending in local governments because of the net loss of health services units, mainly hospitals. Since 2016, this coverage has been mandatory and local governments have spent PLN 1.5 billion for this purpose. 2 powiats took over commitments which are greater than the sum of operating surpluses in the entire history of these powiats. Well, that's absurd. You can't just pay it back. At the same time, these self-governments have no impact on the amount of remuneration and the valuation of benefits due from health insurance, i.e. do not have, practically, no impact on the result and must cover losses. The same is true of the tasks commissioned. There's a completely pathological situation here, too. I have searched for indicators of increase in expenditure on commissioned tasks, but not entirely, in these budget studies. Because after I asked the questions at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I received information about a huge increase in expenditure on tasks commissioned to local governments, but also about expenditure on the 500+ programme. And this is falsifying the whole result, because the amounts are huge, the spending on this programme is increased, and the facts are that for tasks performed on behalf of the government not only there is no growth, but they are financed, at least in some cases, to a lesser extent than the year before. I didn't get the aggregate data, so I asked the local government, at the source, and the answer is that there's less money for it than there was. At the same time... Mr. Senator, I'm... I'm almost done. Whether the principle was that wage increases were planned at 6%. So without interfering in this situation we will have to deal with a reduction in the quality of public services, a halt to the pace of development, unfortunately also the destruction of this local self-government and Maybe there's a lot of people here who can convince them. Less revenue, among other things. with VAT, because if there is no investment, it is also less VAT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u185	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! When I talk about the budget, it's always dry in my throat, which is why I've decided to prepare for this speech. Don't pour water. Please? Don't pour water. No, I don't want to... Shine your intelligence. I don't want to insult you, so I won't say anything. Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, you are speaking to Senator Blackobay. You're aiming like that, but you're gonna get it one day, I'm gonna tell you. But since it's a good mood today, I'm not gonna say. Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, during the debate, I recalled the statements of the rulers in such a small country in Bhutan. They said, "We want people who are well-educated and healthy to live in this country." And the fact that you're talking about a balanced budget can be said to be some quality that I'm going to refer to in a moment. But it's happening. before me, ladies and gentlemen, the senators have shown one thing, they have shown that these 4 pillars of health, education, good environment and respect for local governments as a partner Not only is it not visible in the actions, but it is not visible in the budget, and the budget is an emanation of attitudes. You can say that I love local governments, I like education very much, and give as much money as you spend in the budget. 435 equals 435 in your edition. And that's something to be proud of. In a way, yes, because in such equations it is a cause for pride. Only if we undress it. I'm gonna say a few words about this. So let's say that this equation should look like 435 isn't equal to 435. It's kind of like how you guys were promoting a couple of years ago, and you said that 1 is bigger than 27. It's more or less this kind of procedure, that's the kind of procedure you're doing. Opinions that concern this budget... I'm glad there's three Senators of Law and Justice, and at the meetings, I'm sure you'll be handing this over. Because our intention is not just to say that everything is wrong. There are some good things, but you've said a lot about it. We would also like to show that we differ in our approach to the budget, because the budget, today's economic situation is a blaze... To create this situation today, it will take three to four years of activity, and in fact this really will be your budget and the socio-economic situation in 2020, because four years of law and justice will probably work in 2020. And what does it say, ladies and gentlemen, about this budget opinion? The Senate's analysis office: a viable but dangerously tight public finance deficit of 32 to 34 billion, an artificial surplus of 21 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have one-off income, which is, of course, an income, it cannot be said that it is always a central bank which has done so in June, at the earliest in April, May, and now, because these are needs, it has done so already and now it is known that there are 7 billion income... And so on the expense side. I asked the minister: it was 29 is 35. Of course, there is nothing wrong with creating funds to achieve a goal. But when these funds are excluded as a rule of expenditure, they are excluded so as not to be indicated in the spending rule, if tasks such as financing the propaganda tube with the amount of 2 billion are carried out by means of Treasury bonds as well as tasks important for Polish science, it is done so that later in such a debate we can say: we have achieved the goal, we have a balanced budget. I'm telling you how balanced he is. He simply has these gaps both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side that the opinion-makers are writing about, what I'm just saying. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in the European Union, perhaps 16 and certainly 14 countries today have a budget surplus. 13. 13? Well, that's reduced because there's a crisis going on. And thank God we, by doing the various procedures you do, have a balanced budget as well. But just now, my friends and I were talking about what's going on with this budget. E.g. underfunded health care. Well, if health care is so good, why do queues get longer? In 37 specialties in 5 improved, and in 32 worsened, the waiting period increased. And you're not talking about referring to gross domestic product anymore, you're just saying: 107 billion is spent on health care. And do you know what 107 billion is in relation to the GDP of January this year? 4,85%. So don't talk about 6% anymore, about 5%, about 5.03%. , about height. This is a reduction in the possibility of functioning of Polish health services. The same is true in education, environmental protection and self-government. And what you're doing with Polish finances... As I read, I was preparing for this talk, and it fell into my hands, Ladies and Gentlemen, the Book of Genesis of the Old Testament. Pharaoh is dreamed of seven skinny and seven fat cows. And I was thinking, actually, it's been a couple of years, and I'm starting to hear things all over again. Do you even think about what Joseph explained to Pharaoh that in a time of prosperity that ends, it takes at least 20% of what is produced, to put aside so that, when difficult times come, we can be richer? That's what Germany does, that's what 14 countries in the European Union do. What are you guys You like that irresponsible father: what he made, he spent, he parties, he picks up kids' allowance, he buys clothes, he does parties. And what else did he do? He issued, ladies and gentlemen, bonds whose payment will begin in five years' time as the children grow up. And he says, "We're working wonderfully, a balanced budget." And that's how it looks. You live in the moment and achieve fantastic success in giving away money. It is not wrong to give away money to people who have enormous needs, and there is a large group of people who will always have those needs. But you're doing a dangerous thing. I often, when I participate in campaigns, from a lot of people, especially those who see money very well, I hear the question: what are you going to give us? Is wealth born from giving away or from work? You are ruining the mentality of Poles because you say you have to give away that power is to give away money. And power is meant to create conditions. It is intended to create conditions for development and to help those who need help. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to giving away money, you also have a lot of success in many economic areas, starting with the construction of electric cars, infrastructure... no, what else... drones, ferry, flats... And that's undeniable your success. This is your success. For four years you could say: the economy is in ruins and it's a gleam. the activities of the predecessors. Yeah, but now it's your success, these drones, these apartments and all that other stuff. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few words about what concerns each of us, i.e. expensive. We had a great meeting about inflation. Well, if we assume that the gross domestic product is decreasing, It's at a level of 2.9, and it's said that 3 and then inflation is at a level of 4.4, at the beginning of the year, which is January... If we're talking about the fact that wages are supposed to rise by 6,5% So how much per balance are the raises? It's easy to count. And now this expensive, this expensive food, the prices of all other products, especially the prices of services. Who will they touch in particular? They will in particular touch people with the lowest income, who spend on food from 25 to 30, and even a little more... And the Minister says, although there were other voices during the debate, when we talked about the cost that the government has nothing to do here. He's got a lot to do. And it's not about price formation, it's about fiscal policy, monetary policy, as well as economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at such an important area as the functioning of entrepreneurs... As I said, the functioning of entrepreneurs is the salt of every economy, the salt of every country... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] You're right to say that, but now... It's been too long? Ten minutes. So, in conclusion, I would like to say this, in addition to these privileges that I have been talking about, these four areas, there is another area that you really appreciate: KPRM, IPN and CBA, 146, 248 and 114% respectively. growth compared to 2015. Mr. Marshal, to conclude, I would like to make three amendments immediately. One concerns the development of social tourism, and I have been approached by PTTK, namely the relocation in the tourism and sport development fund, which is the amendment I make. I would also like to make two amendments, Mr Marshal, so to speak, local, because concerning my constituency and the places where I live, namely Powiśla and Żuław. It is about the allocation of PLN 30 million to start work on documentation of 2 bypasses, namely the city of Kwidzyna and the town of Malborka. At the same time, it is about the use of another amendment of PLN 10 million to revitalize the reconstruction programme of the Liva River in the Kwidzyńska Lowlands. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The money planned to protect health and the environment for 2020 is far from enough. That's where I'm gonna start, and that's where I'm gonna end up, and now maybe I'm gonna cut to the chase. I'll start with health care. In health care, there will be no National Health and Accounting Fund in the National Health Fund, there will be a budget that will be sufficient. What's it like? There is a rigid budget that has caused hospitals to fall into dramatic debts because there are no over-executions. And what are overconfidences? It just shakes me up when I hear my kids lying on their beds, it's overwork or some sort of procedure. These kids, these adults, they need money for their treatment. And just because there's no overexpression means the state doesn't pay for health care for the sick. And I would like to remind you that according to the article. 68 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the right to health protection, regardless of the material situation, that public authorities provide equal access to public-funded healthcare services. What's it like? The thing is, whoever has money fills up the gaps that are in public protection through private protection, but whoever doesn't have money can't do that. Is this the fulfillment of the Constitution? Poles spend over PLN 40 billion a year on private health care. Is this the right thing to do, Minister? I see that Minister Gadomski is here. Is this really the way it's supposed to be? Citizens have to pay $40 billion, even to stand in line right now, because the heart attack that's in health care is this disaster. That's what you should call it. It never had the same scale as it did at the moment. And that's where it all went down: a rigid budget, not thinking about renewing medical personnel, no specialists in practically all areas, and many, many mistakes. I can't listen to people say that every power that was, every option put in money. I never discuss it. There's more money, the Ministry sent more money. But what came out of it, Minister? Nothing. It's not like there's shorter lines. Are they? Maybe in case of cataracts. Only the cataract procedure is not a life-saving procedure. In the case of life-saving procedures, have the queues shortened? No. Thirty thousand out of 100,000 sick Poles treated for cancer die. Maybe I'll brief the High House a little bit. Cancer must be properly and quickly diagnosed, then treated as best as possible, in order to have the lowest possible effect of the disease itself and our treatment. And finally: modern therapy must be used. I have the impression that the Ministry of Health doesn't see that there are modern therapies that cost a lot of money, and it gives 11 billion for next year's oncology. Minister, this is absolutely not enough and you know it better than I do. You're in the middle of this, and you can count all that gold money. If modern therapy, such as CAR-T cells, is done in the United States and could be in Poland... We have the Medical Research Agency, we have beautiful universities, we have the Polish Academy of Sciences. I have to send the baby's cell phones... I want to point out that it's not a drug. These are the baby's own cells that the CAR gene is inserted into, and they're coming back with that gene. And the baby takes out cancer cells. This is the only chance to save the life of a child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, with a recurrence. Is this paid for by the state budget? I've applied for access to four children's emergency care. I got three rejections because one girl died in the meantime. We've appealed. The answer has not yet come, but we already know that the tariff agency has issued a negative opinion. And what's the reason? I almost fell off the stool. In fact, it is not known what the late effects of this treatment will be. Minister, these people, these children and these adults are fighting for their lives. Maybe in heaven those late effects would be controlled? It says there's no control group. Well, how can there be a control group of kids fighting for their lives? It's out of the question that this group is. It takes 2 million for an anti-GD2 child to send a child to Germany and 500,000 for blinatumomab, which is included in the protocols of the European Union. How are we supposed to stick to the protocols of the European Union if we have to pay for these drugs? I just walked right into the site helping myself.pl. I just want to cry when the kids collect... Tosia, Franio, Kacperek, Alex are collecting money all over Poland right now. I don't know all these children, because they're not just Wrocław children. You know what? In adult oncology, it's even worse. What I said... We have results comparable to the results of Western countries, because maybe funding and childcare, which is 1 thousand 200, and not 180 000 per year as in the case of adults, are better. Also, perhaps easier We're getting paid. For all the shortcomings... I've been working in child cancer for 45 years, I've been running Cape Hope for 20 years, and I've been raising money for 20 years. And every time I got a refusal from the ministry, it was out of budget. And the kids didn't lose anything. That's why our results are the same... It's out of the question in adult oncology. You know better than I do what is lacking. Personalized therapy is such a therapy that is chosen for the patient, for his genes, i.e. for the so-called. epigenetics. Each of us, for example. My child, he can pump out some chemo therapist, but feeding him isn't very smart. It's a waste of money, but most of all, it's a child. Is that what they do in Poland? No. This needs to match the genetic test results to the tumor itself. Depending on the outcome, more severe or weaker treatment should be given. Therapy has to be personalized, and this is expensive, that's comparable to those prices I was talking about. Like blinatumomab, they cost antibodies to lung cancer, colon cancer, kidney cancer. Adult oncologists have been hinting about this for a long time. What does Professor Jass say, like many other oncologists? It's bad, it's bad, it's bad again. And now we hear that 11 billion is, as it's said, then. I really don't want anybody to get cancer and be in our system, especially, God forbid, except for the big oncology center where he'd still have a chance. Well, 30,000 deaths are caused by the fact that a sick person got sick in a small town, was non-oncologically operated, and then sent to a big queue in an oncology facility. This results in the fact that he most often loses his life because cancer is spreading. I, even though I'm from the kids, get a lot of these cases to consult on. I can show it to you someday, it's despair. Breast cancer was diagnosed when a woman started having seizures and collapsed because she had a metastasis to her brain. This cancer doesn't go like a storm, it doesn't go like kids. How did our health care get past that kind of thing? Finally, I would like to say that I have tabled an amendment. In addition to this amendment concerning PLN 1 billion 950 million... I would like to ask you to vote for it because it is not a huge sum at all. As far as I'm concerned, there should be a second amount, but for this we will be able to cure all the children in Poland who need Carticello. Well, we've only got accreditation, we'll cure them. Besides, we're gonna send the kids to Germany for that $2 million since they were kids, and all the kids are gonna get blintumomab, and the whole adult car is gonna get targeted therapy. Move that money, please. I can't imagine anyone not voting for that amendment that's for life. How can you spend that money on TV? Because what, my kids and their parents are supposed to watch TV instead of taking life-saving drugs? Will the sick who die get anything out of this TV? No. That $30,000 doesn't watch TV unless you watch TV in heaven. I therefore ask that this amendment be voted on, because this is an amendment for life. And besides, I made a second amendment, which I'm going to let me read quickly. She's at your place, along with the signatures. This is an amendment that will allow us to create a national Alzheimer's programme. Well, if I wanted to tell you everything about vaccinations, about children with disabilities, about what palliative care is, I could really talk until tomorrow, but my time is running out. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say, at the end of the day, that there is not enough money to protect the environment that we die in smog. In Wrocław we often have 2,000 standards and there are too few resources for this too. You cut the trees instead of planting them, and you should plant them, plant them, and plant them again. That would make us healthier, too, because it's prevention, but there's no money for that either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u189	Did the senator make any adjustments? He's gonna fold. Mrs. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, please don't disturb me. Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, I draw your attention. I'm talking to the senator. Did the senator make any adjustments? Yeah, I gave back the signed amendments. Okay, thank you very much. And I ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The budgetary debate is a debate that always requires difficult decisions on the various elections, but these elections are not as difficult as they might seem. With a budget of PLN 435 billion, in terms of revenue and expenditure, the national, nationwide amendments that have been tabled, I am not talking about local amendments concerning these three priority areas, namely health, which are particularly connected with oncology, as the professor, clean air and education has just said, cover PLN 7 billion 600 million. You can see how small a percentage of the entire budget is. These amendments are perfectly correlated with the conclusions that flow from the annual reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Don't look at them. as an adjustment dependent on some political choices. What will be presented and presented in this Chamber today fits perfectly into the diagnosis of the most distressing areas of the functioning of the Polish state based on the reports of the Supreme Chamber of Control. What's the health area like? We are talking about the fact that for health in Poland we spend... And here, in order not to cause political discussion, I will use OECD data, data comparable to all 28 countries of the European Union until recently. In 2017, current health expenditure in Poland accounted for 6.7% GDP, but including the National Health Fund, which is directly from the state budget, is only 4.6%. Why am I talking about this? Because at the same time we have 6.7% in Poland not rich countries of Western Europe, but our neighbours spend more than 7%. Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary They all have much more expenditure on health care. But there's something about health care that we're at the top of the list. These are expenses directly incurred by the patient. Polish patient in 2016, and since then these results have only deteriorated, spent 23% money out of your own pocket for your treatment. At that time, the Czech Republic spent an average of 15% , Slovak I'm not talking about countries like France. What's the conclusion? In spending from the state budget for health care among the 28 countries of the European Union we are at the gray end, but Polish and Polish private money spends relatively the most. I don't want to talk about it anymore, even personal experiences, because the oncology conclusions are very important for all those who have their oncology experience. I myself am after cancer and after a 2-fold autotransplant of the bone marrow and I have seen a close sacrifice of doctors and nurses and the financial barriers they face. Of course, I absolutely appreciate these increasing expenditures in recent years. But it's fair to say that these increasing expenditures it is primarily the result of economic growth, and we expect a decision which will be the result of an analysis of such a situation that today in Poland we are simply spending too little on health care from the state budget. If we look at such expenses, after all, as I will refer to this example of spending on the Polish National Foundation, I will no longer give others It can be seen that it is worth looking for this money wherever they are actually wasted. According to experts, 1/3 cancer can be avoided if we take better care of our health. You know best how little money is for health prevention, how little action is needed in the field of health education for children and young people. The Clean Air Programme concerned another NIK report, because oncology was concerned with the 2018 report, and the Clean Air Programme concerned the NIK report from 2 years ago. Again, we can say with pride that we are at the head of the European Union. In the case of particulate matter, we are in the top three of the most polluted countries of the European Union. In the case of benzopyrene contamination, the most carcinogenic of all air pollutants, we take first place in the European Union. The average exceedance of the concentration standards of this substance in Poland is 18 times, although the acceptable concentration level of this substance in Poland is 8 times higher than accepted, recommended by the World Health Organisation. We know all these numbers: 46 000 deaths of Poles and Poles, premature deaths due to the fact that these people were constantly or periodically staying in places where air pollution standards are exceeded. If we are looking at a fight to improve air purity in Poland, we can see And you will read this in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. If we do not accelerate these actions, air standards which are more liberal in Poland, i.e. worse from the point of view of citizens, will be reached on average in time, depending on the voivodship, from 24 to 100 years. So we want to tell our citizens that for the first time clean air will breathe in 30, 50 and in some voivodships in 100 years? And that's what another amendment has to do with it, because it's not that high in terms of its value. Education stuff. Here again I recommend reading the report of NIK from 2019. Yeah, in recent years, there's been an increase in educational expenditure. In the period controlled by NIK, and these are the last years, education subsidies increased by 6%. But at the same time, the rigid spending of local governments on education increased by 12%. , which is related to costs which the local authorities do not have an influence on, e.g. with increases in teachers' salaries. Decisions giving rise to specific costs I'm not saying it's a bad decision. The government takes over, but their consequences are shifted to local government, and this is not reflected in the increase in education subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in the world will be a drama that we will be dealing with in the coming years. The NIK report showed that the number of extracurricular activities for the most gifted and least capable children in recent years has fallen by several dozen percent. So we save where we absolutely can't save. Therefore, I strongly recommend that the government further verify whether it will not want to say, also in this Chamber, that it accepts and supports the amendments tabled by the senators in the field of health care, oncology, education, the field of the fight for clean air. These are the national priorities, very carefully selected and thoughtful. And, of course, we should think about it. I'm just gonna say this in one sentence. What is to be with the various Polish inspections and services forgotten by the State, such as regional accounting chambers, building supervision inspectors... In some of these institutions, for which the government is responsible, we have an average annual turnover of 20% of staff. Or 30%! Think of it: in specialized services one third of the employees leave each year, due to low wages! Finally, I will only say in one sentence that, together with Senator Dunin, we will also submit regional amendments concerning Łódź and the Łódź voivodship. Łódź is the only big city in Poland where there is no stationary adult hospice. In addition, we have a problem with the huge debt of the high-specialist hospital of the Polish Mother's Health Center, which saves children in situations where no other health care institution in Poland wants to take action. We have a problem with investments such as S14, the construction of so-called. Western Circuit of Łódź, in which case the state under the silly savings 'Cause it's hard to say otherwise. You cut the nodes without which the Łódź ring road will be a ring road by name only, because the Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź Łódź will not be able to enter it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u191	Thank you, Senator. You've made your amendments, haven't you? Yes, sir. Senator Aleksander Pociej, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, caused by concern for the rule of law, justice and the rights of the individual, I am forced to sadly conclude that the budget is presented to us to a serious extent. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal It's not built properly. I will, of course, not compare the importance of this subject with the importance of health care problems, but on a daily basis it is also very important. The problems of the Polish justice system are widely discussed. Poles have been demanding for years a quicker, more efficient, more citizen-friendly judiciary. According to the general opinion of specialists, practitioners, in times so-called "" I emphasize: so-called The reform carried out by the PiS has not only not improved, but has also significantly worsened. Poles have less and less confidence in the courts after 5 years of reformation, and the expectation of justice has increased considerably instead of shortening. At the same time, experts point out that only reforming and funding administrative services, modernising them, creating additional jobs can lead to a tangible improvement of the situation. It requires money and comprehensive reform, but this time it is the reforms. - organizational, administrative and procedural. Despite the lofty slogans of the Ministry of Justice, apart from taking over institutions and executive positions in courts, in the prosecution's office, dismantleing the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court and bringing about an unprecedented war with judges, no major reform has been proposed. Therefore, the only available way to improve the situation, at least in part, even if in some cases almost symbolic, is to add money to the most needy institutions. The biggest problem concerns the Ombudsman. This institution has consistently been destroyed economically since the current political camp's takeover of power. It is the closest institution to ordinary citizens, receiving about 40,000 interventions per year, and after amending the rules additionally 6 000 requests for emergency actions. This eye in the head of the current government in Poland did not receive any financial support. This institution, in 2012 and 2015 means for the previous Ombudsman, had at its disposal budgets from 36 to almost 38 million zlotys. In 2016, the parliamentarians of Law and Justice reduced this budget to 34 million, which is below the 2011 quota. Despite the dramatic situation which is presented here every year in the course of the budget debate, the Ombudsman's budget after 4 years increased by slightly less than PLN 1 million and today is at the level of 2012. For the last 5 years, the Ombudsman has been asking for a total amount of PLN 20 million higher than he received in those years. And that's the amendment I'm about to make. In addition to the Ombudsman, the following institutions have reported various problems. The Supreme Court, affected by the past 5 years by the carousel of legislative changes, the establishment of two chambers, the blockade of the judges' nominations, because the president has for some time not performed any nominations All of this resulted in a double extension of the time of judgment. This Supreme Court has requested an additional 14 million, needed for employee increases and assistant posts, only so that there is no greater degrengolade of the Supreme Court. The paradox is that part of this money is needed for two non-constitutional chambers created by Law and Justice. The money hasn't been added again, not even to its own ideas. The next institution is the Personal Data Protection Office, where duties have increased significantly again, but there is no money following it. 3 million zlotys for new jobs. The Constitutional Tribunal, which is completely dismantled, even this Court, which is actually directly managed by the governing party, also demands, bagatela, PLN 254 thousand. All these requests are well-founded and well-founded, which is why I am making amendments in this regard. For the Constitutional Tribunal, 254 thousand, because it is for private employees and just that money is needed there. At the same time, with the poor budgets of these institutions, there is no way to fail to notice the dramatic increase in the budget of one institution The Institute of National Remembrance. From 2015 to 2019, this budget increased from PLN 249 million to PLN 342 million, i.e. by nearly PLN 100 million. For 2020, however, it does not seem to be surprising to anyone that the IPN is asking for an increase to PLN 423 million, i.e. another PLN 80 million. At that time, the budget of such a key institution as the Supreme Court increased from PLN 94 million to only PLN 164 million, and this was only due to two newly created chambers. With regard to the increase for the competent Supreme Court, the one who solves the cases of Poles, only 15 million zlotys have been added during these six years. The explanation of the President of the IPN as to the nature of such a drastic increase in the budget is in no way sufficient. It is only the impression that the Institute has become an institution working mainly for itself and many people benefiting from it through a diverse way of cooperating with the institution. We cannot avoid the reflection that this necessary institution, which was to carry out the illustration, some important historical investigations, has become a propaganda institution that maintains one, often objective historical narrative, which is often also a weapon in the political struggle. I consider planning an increase in the IPN budget that is de facto dealing with the past 80 million PLN for immoral in comparison with the needs of other institutions, so crucial for the present and for the needs of everyday life. This is why the amount for the four institutions mentioned above, as amended, is to come from the IPN budget, which is going to increase by PLN 40 million, even if the Sejm agrees to these amendments. And finally, completely by the way: for a moment I was thinking about moving 5 million PLN from the CBA's operating budget to the Intelligence Agency, of course, if this plastic bag with money were found, but unfortunately our Legislative Office did not find a way to save it in the future budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u193	Thank you, Senator. What if it does? And please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u194	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, Life and health are invaluable values. They are the highest good of men. This is my speech, like many of the previous ones, which should not have happened in the 21st century in the centre of Europe, where a man should be a subject of special concern. However, it turns out that in Poland there has been a decrease in the standards of civilization, according to which the immediate political interest, rather than the welfare of the individual, is important. The most dramatic victims of this state today are cancer patients who still have to fight for their lives, for treatment consistent with the current state of medical knowledge. Statistics and facts are constantly freaking me out. It is enough to realise that one in four of us will suffer from cancer, and one in five will die from cancer and that half of the available drug therapies recommended by the European scientific society are not available to Polish cancer patients. In Poland, the number of malignant cancers has more than doubled over 30 years, and now 27% of cancers cause cancers. Men's deaths and 24% Women's deaths. These are some of the highest rates of mortality in Europe, in this Europe, which is doing everything in the fight against cancer to stand on the side of civilization of life. In Poland, 194 people die of cancer per 100,000 people. It is only worse in Hungary and Croatia. There are 224 deaths in Hungary and 204 deaths in Croatia. Why? Because in Poland, it saves itself on cancer treatment. Further effects: 100,000 Poles die of cancer every year. Cancer is the second cause of death in Poland. Treatment of patients is still not considered an investment, and this should be the case. This is what it looks like to fund the treatment of oncology diseases in Europe per statistical inhabitant. Poland spends around EUR 67, which is 2.5% participation in the entire budget of the country, at least for 2020 France 3 times more. United Kingdom 3 times more. Czech Republic twice as much. These 11 billion PLN from the budget allocated to oncology in 2020, i.e. 2,5% in the budget of our country. It's still there. the same 2,5% , at least since 2018. We barely catch up with what was in 2015, then 2,35% was spent on oncology. So there is no progress, there is no progress, there is no success in this matter, even though it has been honked so much about success, saying that 11 billion PLN is allocated, that there is an oncology strategy, according to which 5 billion PLN is allocated for 10 years. This will only improve by 0.05% expenditure on on oncology, at least in these cancer programmes. And the extra 2 billion zlotys we're fighting for, of course, can be spent differently. Thousands of sick people at risk of death can be saved. And the belief that having 2 billion zlotys is easier to deceive hundreds of thousands of people with media manipulation of facts than to cure 30,000 cancer patients is barbaric and ethically impossible to defend. Continuing, ladies and gentlemen, in the demands of President Andrzej Duda to veto this socially harmful and unethical law granting PLN 2 billion to public media, which, as we well know, could cope with, as they did by 2016, at the same time, I would ask that all who are concerned with the introduction of European standards of oncology, support the Commission's proposed transfer of additional funds of PLN 1 billion 950 million to finance prevention and treatment of cancer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u195	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The draft State budget for 2020 could serve as evidence on, or actually on, irresponsible use of words. The budget, which the Prime Minister says is the best for 30 years and for the first time sustainable, is really the budget that is ruining public finances and self-government in Poland, this self-government, which has been the pillar of the country's development for 30 years. And probably in 2020 self-government will fall on the altar of propaganda of the Polish government, propaganda of success. And this is closely related to the state budget. Why? Because in order for the government to repel its success in the media, triumph, was torn away, mainly to local governments, more than PLN 50 billion, to local governments which spent more than PLN 460 billion on investments in 2006 and 2018, more than the state budget in the same period. Today we can safely say that if it had not been for local governments, if it had not been for the involvement of local governments, Poland would not have half of the treatment plant, water supply networks, insulation of buildings, streets and other infrastructure used by millions of Poles every day. Unfortunately, the success of this government is that it will break this trend effectively. In 2020 1/3 of local governments will have neither a zloty for investment expenditure, and the other 30% of local governments will have less than 1 million. And 1 million is the amount that's enough to fix the curbs and patch holes in the streets after winter. New projects can be dreamed of by residents of 1/3 local cities or local districts. In a few months the Poles will learn how many new crèches, kindergartens, how many municipalities there will be no semicolony, additional English lessons, how many municipal apartments will not be renovated, how many city buses will not go to the street. The list of tasks that Polish local governments carry out for citizens, which are already suspended, extends every day and will extend. Only in my constituency do local governments spend 200 million PLN per year on education, and Elbląg will add 40 million PLN this year because the state has taken funds from local governments. And this is the real price of this propaganda success of the PiS, which is a balanced budget. Can you explain how it is that in times of crisis, in the real world crisis, Polish local governments have invested 500 billion PLN, and in times of prosperity and success of your government, what are you constantly bragging about, local governments go to agony? Isn't it strange that, at a time when the state boasts of budgetary success, the real self-government of local governments and their financial autonomy is failing? Your current guru, the political guru, warned at a time when the economy was treated the same way as it is treated at the moment, that the parasite should care for the organism from which it lives. You should listen to John Pietrzak because he was talking to you and you. You don't listen, and you'll have no one to live with in a minute. When we add to what I am talking about, the fact that EU funds will probably be several dozens or maybe 100 billion less than those negotiated by previous governments, and the fact that ever-increasing new and higher taxes generate a growing group of people living in poverty, we have a vision of a repetition of the propaganda of success, with a gaming epilogue. I congratulate you on your role model, only Poland and Poles are a pity. In this situation, High Senate, I must defend the self-government of the Elbląg sub-region and the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship, one of the poorest regions in Poland. I therefore submit 15 proposals to the draft budget. First of all, I am applying to secure resources for tasks that will increase the development opportunity so that this province does not have to be at the mercy of the state. Among them is the restoration of the channel through the measure of real economic value, not some invented military purpose, and the securing of funds of PLN 200 million at the end of this channel in Port in Elbląg, not 3 km in front of the port, in bushes. Such an investment, which ends where the government designed it, does not make any economic sense, and because by 2 years you delayed the construction of the channel, today it costs 2 billion PLN instead of 1 billion PLN. It is also important to invest in sensitive sections of circular roads in order to prevent the transport exclusion of my region, which favours inter alia. your investment in Via Carpatia is so conducted that it promotes the port in Riga at the expense of the port in Gdansk and the port in Elblag. You spend PLN 2 billion on building a port that's worse off than a port in Riga... Klaipeda. ...and in Klaipeda. Congratulations on your strategy. Such episodes, which require funding and rapid implementation, in my voivodship I generated 10 for a total amount of PLN 350 million. I also request that the second stage of the flood prevention programme be implemented, which was created for our government. The first stage was completed at the expense of PLN 650 million. The second stage suddenly disappeared from the programs... In Żuławy. In Żuławy. That's north of there... In Żuławy. Elbląg lies partly in Żuławy. This programme included the district of Elbląski and the district of Bravsk. The failure to implement this programme has already generated costs of PLN 14 million in Elbląg. Either this programme will be included in the budget and will be implemented, or this 100 million PLN will be spent quickly, but to eliminate the damage caused by the flood, not to build the security of the inhabitants of this region. Waiting for the flood... Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship, which may be known by few, is a very saturated voivodship, in terms of material cultural monuments, is in fourth place in Poland in this respect, and the financing of preservation of monuments is in the last place. That is why I request that PLN 150 million be added to the protection of monuments in our voivodship. And this is the level which our voivodship... is the level of average expenditure on the protection of monuments in Poland, so no outrage. Let's join the average. High Senate, these are the most important tasks that are to be carried out in our voivodship, to be included in the 2020 budget and which will allow our region not to go backwards in development towards other regions. Please accept these requests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u197	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The State of Ministers is not the largest, as I see from the benches. And it's a shame, and it's a shame, because we've heard a lot full of... I don't want to say that shoes, but the complacency of words about how this budget is historically balanced for the first time. A balanced budget is a budget in which the government really evaluates income, and before diagnosing needs, it really finances it. Is that the budget? Can you say that after the speeches of my fellow predecessors, each of whom spoke about the needs that in this budget According to the sustainable rulers, they have not been implemented? Anything, every penny the government has at their disposal is a penny to the citizens of our country. You don't have your money, you have citizens' money, and citizens should trust you to spend that money in the right way, on their behalf, for their needs. Trust is a key word because nothing planned in the budget is created for citizens, but nothing planned in the budget cannot arise without the participation of citizens. Therefore, the trust of the rulers in those governed and ruled by the rulers must be, or nothing good will arise. And can we have confidence in a government led by a person convicted of lying? Can we have confidence in the government that's headed by a person? Mr Morawiecki Who not so long ago defended Mr Marian Banasi from the Seym Hall, after all the connected... Crossroads. ...with the President of the Supreme Chamber of Accident Control and Transitions? She also defended Minister Kaminski, who was neglected by his subordinate services, and thanks to these omissions, Mr Marian Banaś can perform a role that he should not perform. Can you have confidence in the government headed by the Prime Minister, who defends Minister Ziobra, although he knows perfectly well that he has destroyed the rule of law in Poland, that he has received and is trying to take away the independence of the courts? He doesn't mind spending money in prison very strangely, he doesn't mind the hat, which is spreading under the watch of Minister Ziobra, he doesn't mind the money spent on conferences on which divorces affect the country's family life, and now I don't forget which one, in Latin America. It doesn't bother you. It does not interfere with the fact that the Justice Fund does not finance non-governmental organisations that really help people affected by violence, but they finance such conferences. The Prime Minister is not disturbed by 2 billion spent on Polish Television and propaganda, and they are interfering with 2 billion oncology. How can you trust such a government? Which social group are you going to insult with another campaign funded by our common propaganda money financed by the national foundation? Which one? Because you have insulted doctors, judges, teachers, actually anyone who dares to have a different opinion than today's rulers can meet with such talk, de facto talk. How can you or we have confidence in a government that, by spending so much money together, on social transfers, does not notice that the poverty rate in 2018 was lower because it was 4.3% than in 2019, because of 6% of it. ? Is the money so strongly stressed in the state budget spent reasonablely when this indicator is growing? Is unemployment rising from 5.9% to 6.2% ...it would seem very little, but any twitching in the field of employment causes reduced revenue to many funds, from which we draw a full handful on things that are not enough for the state budget. If you haven't noticed a decrease in female activity from 78.2% to 74.2% ? How did you not notice a smaller number of births? 402 thousand in 2018, in 2019 388 thousand. 1 million children in Poland do not receive child support. Why? Because if one responsible parent raises them and the other irresponsible doesn't pay them, then the income criteria that didn't move at all with the rise in the lowest wage are bothering them, and these kids don't get the money. This also means that the weakest single parent earning the lowest national, with one child, falls out of the entire welfare system. We do not help him with housing allowances, energy lump sums, we do not help him with fixed or periodic benefits from social assistance funds, because his income criteria are too high. Don't you see that instead of helping the really poorest, we spend money... In this situation, every million spent not on these areas of life seems to be a million thrown into the mud. If you haven't noticed... In this budget there is not a single zloty for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in order to equalise the provision of caretakers to adult independent persons. You haven't noticed. There's not a single dollar for that. We're paying our 13th pension, that's true, but from a spring that's supposed to beat people with disabilities. Besides, the source of the Solidarity Fund is a little dry, because in order to pay the thirteenth pension, we need a loan from the demographic fund, 9 billion PLN. We didn't notice that... maybe let's try the lowest retirement and pension tax exemption, maybe avoid a pension trap that makes people with disabilities afraid to take a job because they're afraid of losing their social pension. Let us note that deinstitutionalisation in Poland is completely limping, and the fact that it limps, causes 1 billion euros from European funds to be lost. How can we ignore that? How can we trust such a government? How can we have confidence in a government that hasn't noticed that social policy is being pursued by social workers paid... it's actually hard to say that they're paid, because they often work for money really much smaller than those who pay their charges. Have you heard of a goldsmith so that we can change the social assistance system in Poland? He was created in the 1990s and for that time, at that time our skills and capabilities were sufficient, but today it is not. Do you even mention in one word that we are going to launch a research programme to see how social aid, more, social policy should be created today? In a word, if someone says that this budget is balanced, then I'll say this: probably in tables, rubies, in what he owes, everything is right. The Minister representing the government today said with disarming honesty: well, it is difficult to say whether he would be balanced if we took away what we were borrowing, because actually we shaped these needs to present a balanced budget. But he didn't tell us if this balanced budget was what we needed and if it was what we needed. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. What society really expects of us in the age of economic hoss. Finally, I do not think that this budget is balanced, and on behalf of my voivodship I submit, Mr. Marshal, 3 amendments. They concern the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. It is difficult not to notice the necessity of expanding the Polish Theatre, it is difficult not to notice that the Prime Minister of the promising 100 bypasses did not remember the ring road of the western Szczecin, and it is difficult not to notice that the government has already refused to co-finance the extension of the voivodship emergency station, which, like the proverbial good host, first expanded the station in various smaller cities of our voivodship, but forgot about itself. These are three regional amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u199	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with what Senator Lover ended up with, I mean. I would like to say that before I took the floor, I have put in the hands of Senator Secretary 5 of the amendments concerning my constituency, although not only. This budget debate is really going on around the health services, and in fact to be more precise, around the television of President Kurski and the health services and the finger of Mrs Lichocka. It is therefore hard to be surprised that almost PLN 2 million in one of my 5 amendments concerns the district hospital in Oborniki. In addition, there is 20 million for retention in Słupca and a small amount of 300 thousand PLN to support pastoral ministry of people with disabilities in Poznań. So much for the amendments tabled. Now I would like to say a few words about what happened at our committee meeting, which we are chairing with Senator Kochan and Senator Majer. I think there's a rather interesting trend there. The government announces something as a success, and if we take a closer look at it, it turns out that there is a problem with this success. I am no longer talking about a balanced budget that has been achieved at the expense of local governments, as Senator Wczyła said, or by pushing some expenditure outside the budget to circumvent the expenditure rule. Let me start with another example. The government has been bragging about the decline in retirement age for years. Until the higher retirement age there is no return, Poles do not want it. But there is a problem. Well, on 5 November 2019 the current member of the Supervisory Board of ZUS, Prof. Robert Starzdowski, gave an interview to the Business Insider Polska portal and said in this interview that pensions would have to be reduced. We really do not find any tool in this budget to do something about it after the diagnosis of Professor Starzdowski, who is the current member of the Supervisory Board of ZUS. A member of the Board of the Social Insurance Institution told us at a committee meeting that this would apply to us in 30 and 40 years, but it seems to me that Professor Starzdowski was talking about a closer future. This is one example of how if we scratch reality and look at it, it turns out that it looks different than the government says. We have other examples that were also mentioned at our committee meeting. This is a very good example, the Labour Fund. The committee was attended by Minister Nowak, Undersecretary of State, and you acted as an accountant from the Ministry of the Family. And all of a sudden, it turns out it's so-called. 500+ for people unable to live independently 4 billion PLN was spent, which was borrowed from the Labour Fund. When will this be returned?A sincere answer has been given I asked the Minister in this series of questions. That the first tranche will not be less than 300 million and will be paid in 2023. A similar operation on this subject was debated. It concerns the Solidarity Fund, the former Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. There, in turn, money is borrowed for the thirteenth pension from the Demographic Reserve Fund. The Minister said he doesn't have a contract yet, he doesn't know when that return will be, but my intuition tells me it's going to be back in 2023. And this year 2023... it's kind of interesting. I don't know if there's gonna be a government of law and justice or a government of some other coalition. I hope so. It will certainly be a different government than the present one, but this is what the present one says: let another government solve these problems in 2023. If this is how we plan the budget, with various loans and various accounting operations, then boasting that it is balanced is, I would say, highly doubtful. There's one more thing I want to say at the end. This is, in my opinion, the most inappropriate thing that happens here. This is a question of the Solidarity Fund. He is today, after the change that the government has made, composed of various elements. And there's one element that's called solidarity tribute. When there was a protest of people with disabilities, it was Prime Minister Morawiecki who came to the protesters and agreed with them that the so-called. solidarity tribute will go to specific programmes, specific forms of support: respite care, assistance services, care and housing centres. And of course, it's all in this budget, the problem is that the money that has been raised is PLN 1 billion 150 million, and the programs that the government is talking about and that are really fulfilling the demands that people with disabilities have made have been allocated PLN 530 million. So 700 million zlotys have escaped somewhere, gone for other purposes. I consider this to be highly inappropriate because Prime Minister Morawiecki has promised this to these people and this promise in this dimension is not being kept. Finally, I would like to say this: one day I would like us to be able to debate a budget that is truly balanced and not balanced by various accounting tricks. And this country, and I wish for it as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u201	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Potatoak. We're just gonna get Senator Potato ready for work. Relax, we've got time. It's been so long, so... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to refer to the issues of Polonia, which were and are still attributed to the Senate. What happened recently? In the Sejm, at the meeting of the Sejm's Finance Committee on 30 January, an amendment was made to the budget to take money from the Senate and split it between 8 ministries, 8 other entities. In 2016, the Senate was restored to the financing of Polonia cases by Law and Justice Decision. This was done in a very spectacular way, stressing what a bad decision it was to transfer Polish funding to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2011. This was then attributed to the Foreign Minister, Minister Sikorski. How did the PiS senators react to this? I'll quote, among other things. Senator Karczewski: And this is, please, a curial situation, because here the Sejm took money from the Senate. Next quote: "Please, if you do not know what is going on, it is most likely about money." Senator Jan Maria Jackowski said: "One of the arguments of fundamental importance for the existence of the second Chamber of Parliament is the argument concerning aid to Polonia. However, we are dealing with the fact that the government is particularly concerned with the area of activity of the Senate, which, for some term of office, many different governments have remained properly undisputed. It was in 2012, when the money went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But four years ago, when the decision to restore was made, such statements were made in the Parliamentary Committee:. Transfer of money to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was merely an attempt on money. Who said that? Senator Arciszewska-Mielewczyk. Next: this was not consulted at all, and then... Quote: The Polish environment expected such a change. They were expecting a return of funds to the Senate. This is what MEP Jadwiga Wiśniewska said. What were the reasons for the transfer to the Senate? This is the postulate that appeared before and during the election campaign, at the programme congress of Law and Justice in Katowice. We are calling for these resources to be returned to the Senate. We believe that the Upper House, which traditionally took care of Polonia and Poles outside the country, is the best place to allocate funds. Who said that? Michał Dworczyk, then chairman of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad... In the Seym. ...now head of the Prime Minister's firm. What else did Mr. Dworczyk say? As I said at the beginning, this is dictated by our concern and conviction that the system functioning in the Senate will be even more effective than it has been before. Maybe so many quotes. And what was it you said about how the government went about it? Because at the end of the previous Senate term, applications for Polish activities were accepted, already affected, and the competition was announced. This amendment was adopted in January. And on the same day as President Kowalczyk presented this amendment, in the meantime, the appointed representative of the government for: Polonia Jan Dziedziczak gave an interview of the Polish Press Agency, justifying this amendment. It's a good thing you're back, Marshal, 'cause I think he's concerned. Maybe he's in Mr. Heritage's eyes and according to his words the perpetrator of all this. Because he said, "You have to react when the Senate wants to conduct an alternative foreign policy towards the government." Polonia must not be the subject of political games. This was emphasized by the Secretary of State, Agent Jan Dziedziczak. What else did he say? In the name of political rivalry, we cannot afford that policy against Poland is different from that of the state. And finally, it can be said that if the Senate under the leadership of the Civic Platform, the total opposition, it still repeats itself, it sends out clear signals that it wants to lead an alternative to the government's stated constitution to conduct foreign policy, then it is necessary to react. At the meeting of the emigration committee, you regretted that the Senate would delay the competitions, that they would be decided only in April, and that maybe money would be mobilised in May. And he kept referring to the fact that in their time these budgetary decisions were already in January. He forgot to mention that this draft budget came to us at the end of February. But he appealed that it was always in January, it was always in January. Why couldn't it be this year in January? Well, because you didn't know what to do with the money, not at all with the budget that was prepared, and then you had to change it for the political situation. This decision was not consulted at all with the Polish community, the beneficiaries of the money. The European Union of the Polish Communities, which brings together a number of Polish organisations in Europe, has issued its position. She conducted a probe among her entities, an organization whose results are unambiguous and may be of interest to the Polish authorities. The organisations expressed the following opinions: 38 organisations considered that the main pool of Polish funds should remain at the disposal of the Senate, 1 the organisation supported the proposal to allocate funds to 5 resorts, 1 the organisation did not respond. Mr. Agent Dziedziczak had completely different data. Except I have that in writing, and he's out of his mind. He said they were being probed and the results were different. And the European Union of the Polish Communities notes that in October last year the head of the Senate Office, Minister Jakub Kowalski, announced the selection of offers for public tasks in the field of care of Polish people and Poles abroad. What happened to the contest? Nobody knows anything. Nobody knows when the new competitions are gonna be. Because this money has been distributed to 6... sorry, 8 entities: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Higher Education, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Ministry of Sport, Ministry of Development, Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons and Institute of National Remembrance. In this connection, I would have one question: who is the author of this project? When the funds were taken to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Radosław Sikorski was behind this, named after him. Do we know that now? No, we don't. Someone decided because, colloquially speaking, in spite of my grandmother, I will unfreeze my ears: the Senate lost, we will not give them money, we will take them away. But four years ago, there was a completely different situation. I will only give you such information that the committee of emigration, with the participation of the senators sitting here, adopted a draft of this budget, 1 Senator abstained from going to the committee of the budget, there was a tabled amendment by the Civic Coalition group on the retention of funds. This amendment was accepted and will be voted on in the budget voting package to keep this money in the Senate. Let's see what happens to this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u203	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Arkadius Dunin. Arthur. I'm sorry, Arthur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u204	Definitely nicer, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers! Today, the debate on the budget, the 2020 budget, the budget you have submitted, is built on the misery of people. Why do I say that? Well, because it's actually built on inflation, it's expensive. Today you have created this budget because you cannot take care of Poles and Poles. Today, it is expensive that even your great 500+ program makes poverty worse. You don't care about Poles. All you care about is your own pockets. Because the situation in the Treasury companies, where every 3 months the presidents exchange, getting large checks... Today it is only you who benefit from the fact that today Poles, Poles and Poles live badly in Poland. There's no oncology today because you don't care because you're gonna get it. If not in Poland, you will get a good treatment abroad because you can afford it. But Poles can't afford it. Today, you'd rather put Kurski on TV than oncology. How can you do that? How will you look Poles in the eye? Will you look the Poles in the eye? No, because you're scared. All your meetings are closed. That's where you have to go in behind the passes. The Senate of the Republic of Poland leaned on this budget, the wrong budget. A budget with 53 billion zlotys missing. Yes, 53 billion zlotys. We leaned on this budget, we're trying to help people out of this budget. We've tabled amendments on oncology, health care. We have tabled amendments concerning teachers, schools, children, which you do not notice. We have also made such adjustments to ensure that our children and grandchildren live decently and in clean air. You forget about it, you prefer to buy, import and burn Russian coal. This is your action. What did you do to stop inflation? Have you done any project that supports Poles? Silence, because you didn't because you have no idea. You're a bad government. Hashtag is therefore different. I say "bad," and I really should say "bad government," which only takes care of itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget in every profile is a weak budget... Mr. Senator, please refrain from such epithets. Okay? You're welcome. Take it easy. And please don't cross a line. Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. If I've offended anyone, I'm sorry. But read the social media. Maybe you'll find out the truth about yourself there. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are presenting today... I'm just gonna say, like, two more words about infrastructure. 'Cause I'm Vice-President of the Infrastructure Committee. Tell me: what does the Central Communication Port company spend money on? Oh, new plans! For new plans, in which the Łódź voivodeship, Łódź, compared to... The old high-speed railway course did not arouse social animosity. Today, you changed it. The line passes through Gold, passes through Health and divides the city of Constantine in half. So we're gonna have to get people out. Do you take that into account? The paper is patient. Someone's gonna take some for innovation... Remember that movie... There it was: My husband is the director... Move the lake, put the block there... This is your rule. It's in that budget anyway! That's the way it is in this budget! In this budget you do harm to Poles and Poles. Why are you doing this? Because you don't care about people. All you care about is your wallets and your satisfaction. So as not to prolong... Ladies and gentlemen, I am placing on the hands of the Marshal of amendments that you rejected in the Seym, amendments that concern the entire Łódź voivodeship, amendments that... These amounts are not really money that should go to all these things, but if these amendments are supported, then at least it will be a signal of your goodwill. Well, I can't talk to the PiS senators because there's only one senator here. Which I cordially greet. Nevertheless, these are amendments that may cause you to lean on the problems of ordinary people. We start with the hospital of the Polish Mother's Health Centre, from the disposal of landfills in Zgierz, from the Kutno bypass, from the railway route in Łowicz. These are matters that concern Poles and Poles. Yes, they concern the Łódź voivodship, but they affect the whole of Poland. Therefore, I would very much ask the High House to accept the amendments, those previously tabled by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, also from Łódź, which we make together, as well as mine, tabled by me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u205	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u206	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Let me start by saying that it's not a true myth being told by a ruling party that the budget is balanced. Again, that's not true. And we should get used to it slowly. The government's planned expenditure will definitely be higher than the government's receipts. The budget looks seemingly so good, because more than 20 billion spent on supplementary pension benefits were simply pushed out of the budget, e.g., as the fellow senators have already said here, to the Solidarity Fund, which in turn, in order to be able to pay out the so-called. The 13th pension, he's just gonna have to borrow. It's worth talking about all the time. In turn about 15 billion expenditures were transferred from the budget to local governments, so education and health expenditure... The government adopts regulations and does not provide funding to local governments, as they spoke very harshly and strongly to my predecessors. It is therefore easy to calculate that more than 35 billion have been pushed out of the budget by these methods. If we put them in the budget, we'd have a significant deficit. A kid in high school already knows that. However, it is a big mistake to create a financial plan for the next year based on one-off revenues, to finance fixed expenditure that will no longer be repeated in the future. These are: transformation fee After summing up, it turns out that this results in more than 40 billion PLN. You're gonna admit it. And I've been an entrepreneur for many years. It is truly irresponsible that, on the basis of one-off influence, a sound financial management policy of the state, our state, should be pursued. I would also like to mention some of the issues that cause the greatest controversy. The current budget does not include a penny to finance medicines for older people over the age of seventy-five. Not a penny. This financial obligation was transferred in its style to the National Health Fund, which attention This is not foreseen in its 2020 financial plan at all. It's like Barei's comedy. Another issue that raises concern is the financing of universities with bonds, which the government wants to spend 1 billion on. These are further expenditures pushed out of the budget. Let me recap: we have 35 billion expenditures pushed out of the budget and 40 billion financial expenditures from one-off charges. So it is easy to calculate that together we are dealing with a real deficit, please, I remind you, a real deficit of PLN 75 billion. I can understand the Prime Minister. He speaks to a certain electorate who is completely uninterested in this. But there's gonna be a time It is slowly approaching that you will have to face people who are interested in it, and you will have to answer very difficult questions. And now I will surprise the honourable senators: as Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I want to defend our, your institution of the Main Office of Measurements. There was a dramatic speech by the President of the Main Office of Measurements about the tragic situation of such a very important office. I just want to remind you in two sentences that the Main Office of Measures supports the Polish economy It's so ironic. Its innovation and competitiveness by providing modern knowledge of measurements at home and abroad... I could say that forever. And this poor president, who knocked on your door from morning to night, dared to say at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation that it was just a shame. You talk so much about statehood, about patriotism, and I urge you to do this pragmatic patriotism. A state institution cannot be a grandfather in Europe, especially if it has recorded innovations... It's as funny as Barei. Finally, on the one hand, there is a Polish city called Słubice nad Oder, and on the other side of the Oder and the bridge there is a German Frankfurt nad Oder. This is a window to Western Europe. Every day hundreds, thousands of cars overflow through Słubice, through this small county town. Your party buddies, as the election was approaching, went to the villagers and said, "They tricked you, and we're gonna do this bypass to you." Your governor was driving, your minister was driving. For the election, you had these poor people. Do you know what's going on today? No one even called when you showed those 100 bypasses, and they didn't say the word "I'm sorry." That is the policy towards those poor people who, for no reason, believed you. I hope this ends soon. Mrs Marshal, on these two points I would like to make amendments. And the senator, please intercede. I am not even asking you for this bypass in Słubice anymore, I ask you to support the institution of the Polish state, which represents our country in Europe and in the world. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u207	Thank you very much. Senator Richard Świlski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's gonna be a really short speech. I am looking for Minister Bittel, because I believe that what I am coming with is an element in which I will find an absolute advocate of good in you. But before I get there, I'm gonna say a few words about history. It's the year. 1851, in Tczew the construction of an epoch building was started for that time of the engineering facility. It was ready after 6 years, because the construction was completed in 1857. It was the bridge that was the longest bridge in the world at that time, 1 thousand 52 m. It was a bridge that went down in history. I don't know if you know. It's another sentence about the past. It was a bridge on which World War II really began. The first shots, even before Westerplatte, were fired on this bridge. Not many people know about this. That's when the Polish soldiers 2. The Battalion of Shooters did everything they could to make it difficult for German soldiers to cross this bridge. They blew up bays, entrance portals. It's never really been rebuilt. In fact, after the war only half of the reconstruction of this bridge started, which after the reform of the local government was handed over to the district of Tczewski. Imagine that the district of Tczewski in 1999 became the owner of a historic, historical, railway and road bridge. You are aware that the government that we have been talking about today has not been able to repair this bridge. It is so that the same district government was forced to close the bridge and start trying to rebuild it from its own resources and other, acquired resources. I am addressing Minister Bittel, because the Minister is a person whose transport matters, especially those of the railroad, are at his heart. I also thought that this was an element which, as it were, sounded five years ago in the election campaign of the then candidate for President of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, who promised that he would do everything he could to get this bridge transferred to the state administration. How's that? The county, or local government, is really the only case in history. He'll administer, manage the bridge on the Vistula? Is this supposed to be a local government structure? To give such a lifeline in the campaign before the upcoming presidential elections, I will submit a proposal to finance the second stage of the reconstruction of this bridge, a proposal for the amount of PLN 12 million 220 thousand. That's a calculated, fair amount. I believe that the Minister will support this proposal and help implement it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr. Marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sovereign has decided, elected Members and Senators. In the case of the Sejm, according to the ruling camp, the sovereign decided correctly because the PiS reached the majority. As for the Senate, the sovereign made a serious mistake because he chose the majority of senators who belong to the Civic Platform, the Left, the PSL and independent senators. Hence the consequences when it comes to the Senate. The Senate is to be punished, the Senate is to be deprived of more than half of the funds, more than 50%. The Senate is being deducted from the budget, the Senate will be deprived of money to care for Poles and Polonia in the world. If we ask what happened, we can answer that the sovereign has made some mistake. It's so moral: if I steal a cow, it's good, but if someone steals my cow, it's very bad. The Senate is being limited in different ways, and now there's a financial impact and taking away our powers. It was already done, but fortunately, money was returned for Polonia and for taking care of Poles to the Senate. What happened when a Member proposed a minor amendment in January? Ministers Dworczyk and Dziedziczak want this money in their hands. This is the personal situation, and that is probably the personal decision. What is the importance of the Senate's decision to support Poles and Polonia in the world? E.g. the fact that here in the Senate, only in the Senate the opposition had an impact on the distribution of this money, because in the commission dealing with Polonia and the Senate bureau there was always a representative of the opposition and he had a real influence on how this money was shared. Is that unnecessary, you're already pulling out of it? This money is divided between five entities. Most goes to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, over 63 million. That's why I mentioned two ministers. Greetings to the ministers, please. I'm sure Polonia will receive the first money in the second half of this year. There were over 630 applications. We have to announce a contest, settle a contest, sign contracts. The second half of this year is a real deadline for children and young people's leisure activities, which starts in June. But you don't look at it, you don't remember the discussion that took place. There has been an unprecedented phenomenon in democratic countries, with well-established parliamentarians and rational elites. The government urged the lower chamber to turn against the upper chamber. The government extends its hand to the insignificant funds used to carry out the traditional function of the Senate throughout the state budget. This coup was based on arguments, in fact... constitutional arguments, although none of them existed, but we'll assume there's some meaning here. They've never been used in a context about which... It goes on for example. for the protection of the President's Office over the monuments of Krakow. We all know that the Foreign Minister does not need this money. It is not a question of increasing the resources of the government or the Ministry, it is a matter of ensuring that people with the highest positions of state, prime minister and minister of foreign affairs can show their dislike and disregard for the House of Parliament in a way that is felt by parliamentarians. After 20 years of effective, fully acceptable and praised care for Polonia and Poles living abroad, the Senate is deprived of this significant prerogative. How ridiculous it was in this situation that in the building where we work, 2 out of 4 of our committee halls bear the names of people who deserved Polish affairs, i.e. the creators of Światpol, Marshal Raczkiewicz, the creators of the Polish Community of Marshal Stelmachowski. We could respect their names, their memory, but we couldn't defend their achievements. That's a quote. I read with difficulty because this is a quote from a statement made by Mr Stanisław Karczewski on 14 March 2012, signed by 29 Senators of Law and Justice. 16 of these senators are still sitting in this Chamber, including Marek Martynowski, Andrzej Pajak, Robert Mamotkow, Krzysztof Słoń, Jan Maria Jackowski, Michał Seweryński, Janina Sagatowska, Grzegorz Bierecki, Kazimierz Wiatr, Waldemar Kraska, Grzegorz Czelej, Dorota Czudowska, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Wojciech Skurkiewicz and Senator Alicja Zając. It's only been a few years. We need to sign this statement. How can these senators vote in favour of taking money from the Senate for Polonia and Poles, taking care of Polonia and Poles abroad? And, after all, the Senators of PiS had already voted in favour of collecting money at the committee that deals with our countrymen. This is a situation that requires both honesty and political perspective. If someone thinks that when the government divides money into care of Polonia and Poles, government agendas, government that has different agendas, it is better when the government gives money to our countrymen in Russia, Ukraine or elsewhere, it is better, it is actually... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a curiosity situation. By quoting this passage from Mr. Vice-Marshal Karczewski's statement, I wanted to show that, however, ethical standards and a political idea... Because politics doesn't distinguish what's right and what's wrong, but morality is what makes it different, so you can't say it's right and then it's wrong. I defended it when my government and Minister Sikorski received the money, I defended it, and I was able to say that it was not a good idea, also a significant part of the Senators of the Platform defended my position. If the Platform government made that mistake, why does Law and Justice repeat the same mistake? It wasn't meant to be. It's supposed to be better, it's supposed to be different. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u211	Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u212	I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u213	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard today, and for some time we have heard the government boasting of a balanced budget, investment, housing, health care. Today we also heard that local governments are getting better, that they have more and more budgets, and it's all good, and it's gonna be even better, because the government cares about families, about Polish children, and people are getting better and better. Only the truth is, it's all a lie. This is a festival of pious wishes, promises, empty promises, because this budget is a budget of continuation of bad PiS governments, a budget of stagnation and lack of development. This is a budget that does not bet on a man who does not bet on our citizens and our citizens, this budget is a money fund, from which money is spent on the fanaber of power and propaganda of success. 30 billion unarmed assault fighters, not defensive, assault fighters, with a combat range of 1,200 km. I wonder who we're going to attack. Expensive and unnecessary. 20 billion on the Polish National Foundation, the same Polish National Foundation, which stifled judges in a duet with propaganda tube, i.e. TVP, popularly called TVPiS, for which further absurd 2 billion PLN are intended. What does that lead to? This policy of hatred, division of society has led to the polarization of society, to an increasing social division, leading to the fact that a judge was beaten in Rybnik. You could say it was lucky that she was just beaten up because this man was taken away from him. Luckily, she was just beaten up. This is the country we live in. 405 million zlotys on IPN. I remind you that this IPN is the same IPN whose budget in 2015 amounted to PLN 249 million. But there are only less than 91 million at the Polish Academy of Sciences. There's a difference. Who's gonna pay for all this? All, but the poorest, because despite the 500+ programme since 2017, the number of people living with extreme poverty has increased, with 90,000 children living in extreme poverty. Why is this happening? Well, because food prices are rising, a dozen percent increase in bills. This is the measure of success that the government is bragging about. But that's not a reason to be happy, that's a reason to be ashamed. The budget reduced social aid expenditure by PLN 3.5 billion, although in December 2019. The Supreme Board of Control warned about the dramatic underfunding of social assistance centres; this social assistance from which seniors, families in crisis, women and children who experience domestic violence. There's supposed to be 200,000 new apartments, and there's not even a thousand. Instead, there are high charges per square meter, rising rental prices, and young people still cannot afford to start a family. And you don't have an idea for that. Instead of tables, beautiful presentations, colorful pictures, slides... In the 21st century in a country in the middle of Europe in a million apartments, there is still no access to the bathroom. 200,000 places are missing in daycares, which makes women, because often they're still women, they can't go back to work, they can't grow. And when they get back to her, they make less money than men in the same jobs. Where's the government? Where's the equal pay law for men and women? Did you know that during the PiS government, doctors' queues increased by an average of one month? The Watch Health Care barometer indicates that the average waiting time for the visit has been growing continuously since the end of 2016. Who do you have to wait the longest? Research shows that endocrinologists have a record because the average visit time is 24.2 months, i.e. over 2 years. Yes, two years, you haven't misheard. People die in line at the S.R. But it's not just the adults waiting. It should be a shame for the Polish government that children's specialists are waiting for a few months, almost a year is waiting for a visit to the cardiologist of children. This is how the PiS government takes care of Polish children. That's all you're telling is a lie. You don't care about health care, you don't invest in it, you still don't have the resources for the most important needs. Hospitals are in debt to, bagatela, 14 billion, and only under the rule of the PiS in several months more than 300 troops were closed down. Your budget does not contain a prescription for this problem. On the contrary, you can see a further collapse. How do you plan to solve this, how to fix it, how to finance Polish health care? Because I don't see system solutions in the budget. Where are the environmental measures to counter the drought that threatens us again? Where are the resources for energy transformation? They've been taken from local governments. It's a fiction that they have more and more money. You've lowered your PIT rates, but you haven't secured resources for local governments to compensate for their financial losses. When and how you're gonna do it Do you want to do that? Today, by reducing the PIT tax, revenue and the amount of the budget are reduced at the same time. E.g. In Gliwice, the revenue from this tax amounted to 5o6%. revenue, in Warsaw 7.2% , in Cracow, Wrocław 7%. It is in individuals such as local authorities, such as municipalities, that projects are carried out for the nearest citizens and citizens, that a friendly environment is created for life. With PIT more than half of the funds went to local governments and today they lose the most. The city adds PLN 24 billion to the cost-free reform, or rather the deformities of education each year. Self-governments keep hospitals that the government can't hold. Today the government should bow down very deeply to all local governments, because it is only thanks to them that our country is still holding on. We don't have a complete collapse in health care or education that's why It's because of the work of local government officials. Bus and train connections in small cities are being closed. 14 million people every day have no way to get to school, to work, to a doctor. Where are the pekaesa promises before the election? Maybe they'll be back in the next election campaign. Well, of course there are politicians who say people should buy cars. Who's gonna give up on this budget? Who's gonna pay for the balanced budget that PiS is so proud of today? Retired people who have worked hard all their lives, who should enjoy the fall of their lives, must look anxiously at the next day. They barely make ends meet. Hundreds of thousands of Polish pensioners live below a thousand zlotys. But the men of the government don't know what it means to live under a thousand zlotys. 500 zlotys bills, 300 zlotys of drugs. How much is left for food? People with disabilities that you reach into your pockets to patch up the Solidarity Fund that was created for them. The teachers you refused to raise as of January 1st, who were denied your dignity. Persons with disabilities, their parents, teachers are those who were humiliated when they protested. But somehow you reacted faster to the protests of the mining trade unions. Why? Because there's an election campaign? Despite the catastrophic situation and losses in the mines of the Polish Mining Group. After all, the 2020 NIK report. He showed us how the indicators match the assumed results. And, unfortunately, no one has classified part of this report. Another group, the administration of the courts, who work for humiliatingly low salaries. There's still a shortage of these workers. They're quitting because they can't support their families. A liability for the long duration of the processes, for the ongoing proceedings In most cases due to lack of staff It falls on the judges. It's very easy to find a scapegoat. In recent years, however, 82% have passed away from the courts the number of judges' assistants, more than 40% of the number of current judicial officials and nearly 80% of other judicial staff. It's worth remembering at the end. What is the name of a country that cannot care for public services that cannot ensure the well-being of its citizens, for efficient courts, schools, hospitals? It's called a country in ruins. It wasn't a diagnosis. It was a prediction of the future under your rule. A state in ruins under the rule of the PiS. The only beneficiary of the budget is the PiS government, relatives, friends, colleagues, and the rest has to contribute. After all, we see who sits in companies of the Treasury, in which authorities change so often. Yeah, 'cause everybody's got to make some money. I am making amendments to this budget. And just the first amendment is the amendment concerning increases for the judicial administration staff, these are the amendments which, of course, you rejected in the Sejm. In the amount of PLN 300 gross per month for basic salary. This is a total of PLN 131 million 778 thousand. This amendment was made in writing. And two more regional amendments were tabled. In view of the fact that we need to increase expenditure on public transport and the fight against the exclusion of communication and smog in the Silesian agglomeration, I am making an amendment on the financing of the work on the E65 railway section of Będzin Katowice I'm sorry, I'm Czechowice-Dziedzice Zebrzydowice and in order to communicate the Bielsko-Biała route, as Krakow has been talking about for about 20 years, but in fact even the Prime Minister promised it, former Prime Minister Beata Szydło. I am submitting an amendment concerning the construction of the S1 expressway on the section Bielsko-Biała Costowy. This road will connect to the eastern ring road of the GOP and will make it easier for the inhabitants of Podbeskid to reach Krakow. I ask the High House to accept my amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u214	Thank you, Senator, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am about to announce a recess, but first I would like to thank the ministers. I would particularly like to thank Senator Dorota Tobiaszowska... Tobiszowska. Tobiszowska, Mr Dorota Tobiszowska, who is the only Senator of the PiS, is still in the sitting room. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u215	I kindly inform you that the Senate Marshal convenes the Senior Convention meeting on 26 February 2020 at 9.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-25-senat-05-1.u216	I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 02]]
