ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to remind you that at 11.00 we will begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the state of Polish diplomacy. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether all of you have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting, and your senators participating in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish the list of senators taking part in the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. And please turn on the razor. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 61 senators voted and so many senators are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 4]] We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Medical Fund Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 210 and the committee's report In print No 210 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Should the senator come from room 217?]] Yeah, yeah, he better be here. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Senator is on his way to the plenary room.]] Taking advantage of the fact that the senator is coming to us, allow me to welcome Minister Paweł Mucha, Secretary of State at the President's Office, Anna Surówka-Pasek, Undersecretary of State, and Minister Sławomir Gadomski I see the Minister here. From the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On 24 September 2020, the Health Commission discussed the Medical Fund Act, which was addressed to the Senate by the Marshal of the Sejm. The aim of the fund and this law is to support actions aimed at improving the quality of health and life in the Republic of Poland by providing additional sources of funding. This is mainly about treating rare diseases and cancers, improving the infrastructure of hospital buildings, equipment, increasing the availability of medical services, especially for people up to the age of 18, and improving the availability of medical services outside the country. These are the main reasons that were discussed at the Health Committee meeting, which were the basis for the preparation of this law. Under this law, sub-funds are created: the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, the modernisation sub-fund of medicinal entities, the prevention development sub-fund and the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. 25 amendments were discussed and adopted during the meeting. They have a different cause of origin. Some of them are legislative amendments referring to other legal solutions, to the Constitution, because some constitutional shortcomings have also been found, some are editorial amendments, and some are substantive amendments. Some substantive amendments are of fundamental importance. I would like to draw attention to an amendment which replaces at least PLN 4 billion in the words "minimum PLN 4 billion" so that this fund has such funds every year. There were also amendments aimed at improving the effectiveness of spending money on drug refunds. It meant that there should be appropriate criteria for innovation and treatment effectiveness relating to the money that will be passed on to these medicines. Discussions have been held and amendments are also made. The discussion also concerned whether the solutions contained in this law are systemic or not There was a discrepancy here. Whether the amount of PLN 4 billion will be included in those 6% GDP, which we are aiming at in spending on health There was a discrepancy here, too. There is likely to be a related legislative change in the discussion. The fact that the law entered into force late, was raised, asked whether this year we would spend 2 billion PLN, whether this fund would make time, according to the regulations which are in the law, i.e. through competitions lasting a certain period, to use this money this year. Come on. There was a question of a certain impact on the refund bill. Are these measures going to go into solutions so far, or are they additional measures? The next important topic was that the investment programme, which was to support all hospitals in Poland, is, however, very limited, limited to care and care facilities, to SORs and ambulances, and skips county hospitals, skips a lot of health care units. It was raised during the discussion. The discussion showed that this was the intention that only point investments in this area should be made. An important discussion was also held on the subject of the article. 9, under which the fund manager may delegate tasks outside the competition, i.e. by agreement with the provider, he may transfer some amounts for investments or other programmes. Then all the rules that apply in the case of competitions will not apply. It's been raised. An important aspect was also the operating costs of the fund, which amount to up to 1%, which if 4 billion zlotys are transferred to the fund, will amount to 40 million zlotys. There was also a discussion on this subject. In any event, the committee requests that the proposed amendments be adopted. No separate opinions were submitted during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Senator Łyczak and Senator Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question for you. I refer to the situation in the district hospital in Aleksandrów Kujawski, where the CT scan was damaged. Hospitals are in a difficult situation and there is a lack of resources to repair it. But it was purchased for a private clinic in Ciechocinek with a magnetic resonance device. And they were asking me to help, too, because the National Health Fund says there's no money, he can't write a contest, and here the senator mentioned that from this fund, possibly... My question is, can you direct money from this fund to this private clinic to start this MRI device? The situation is that at the moment Ciechocinek, where there are tens of thousands of people, and curates, and residents, and the whole district of Alexandria have no place to study, no possibility of doing X-rays, they cannot do either a CT scan or an MRI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, here's the deal. And a CT, and an MRI are imaging tests, but they're not comparable tests, they're not the same tests, and they're not done with the same recommendations. The CT is much shorter, it can be done in practically a minute and a half these days, and there are no contraindications that have an MRI. M.R.I.'s got contraindications. I'm not going to replace them now, but it's an electromagnetic field, and there's got to be some contraindications for a man to be within his reach. So it's not a replacement test. M.R.I. won't perform the role of C.T. even if it doesn't perform so much research. In the magnetic resonance imaging, the study lasts 20 and 40 minutes, depending on what is being studied, but above all, it will not achieve exactly the results that we sometimes want. It's also the other way around, these are complementary tests. The fund we're discussing... There's no indication of money being transferred to medical benefits under a CT contract or an M.R.I. contract. That's not exactly what this is about. The purchase of a CT scan is possible within the fund. There's this gate we're talking about by agreement, except for the competition procedure, that money can be transferred. In my opinion, the intention of creating a law was not to ensure e.g. more tests or, let's assume, an MRI contract. The MRI contract will be signed as a research contract by the National Health Fund, and if the National Fund does not sign it, it's probably because it's about doing a CT scan. If there's anything I can do, I'll give you a hint that there's a portable CT scanner, a container scanner that can be placed in such a situation in an emergency to perform a CT scan. In case of strokes or other emergency conditions, the C.T. must be performed immediately. And an MRI, even if the patient is unconscious, maybe he's having respiratory problems... Well, you can't for 20 minutes... Besides, he can move. I don't want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u6	Senator, these are questions for the rapporteur. You're very curious about neurology. Indeed, the problem is that Aleksandrów Kujawski has no money to repair the CT, but this is a separate issue. Senator Malecka-Libera. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I withdraw. Thank you.]] I would like to ask your rapporteur whether it was clearly defined at the committee meeting, whether these funds, these 4 billions, and this year 2 billion, are the money that will be added to the system, or whether it is the money that is a pool separated from the NFZ, which is like reducing the amount of money that the NFZ has to pay for medical benefits. This is an important detail. He is important in the context of securing health benefits for patients. Was that discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u7	Yes. Such questions were asked. I regret to say that the answers were somewhat vague, but let's say that the answer is as follows: there is a change in the benefit law, in the article. 131, which, according to the legislators, according to the President's representatives, causes that money not to be included in the fund's operating costs, will not be counted against the amounts contained in the fund. But our senate legislator pointed out that there was a mistake in changing the rules and that there should be a different point in this article. Then, yes, it will be said that this money will be next to the money that is transferred to the fund. To my additional question, is this going to go into 6%? The GDP we're coming to is the answer, yes. So you can imagine that this is going to look like this: there will be a reduction in the money that the fund receives, but the growth that was going to take place next year, which was also going to happen without this bill, will be smaller, because the money from this bill, these 4 billions, will be sort of counted into this growth. So not the money that's now... It's about the growth that was supposed to be in the National Health Fund. When we look at how much money has been spent on health care in a year's time, it turns out that this fund will sort of be included in this bill. I'm talking about the 6%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u8	We'll probably be asking that question. The bill was filed... No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by your president. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Anna Surówka-Pasek, and Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Paweł Mucha, were authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Do the President's representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? It's possible to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u9	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to supplement the information provided by the rapporteur and, in some elements, to correct certain information. The Act is the implementation of the announcements of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda concerning the need to support access to innovative medical services. The aim of the Medical Fund is to support actions aimed at improving health and quality of life in the Republic of Poland by providing additional sources of financing for the health care area: prevention, early detection, diagnosis and treatment of civilization diseases, including particularly cancer and rare diseases; health care infrastructure affecting the quality and accessibility and safety of healthcare provision; access to high-quality healthcare services; development of the healthcare system by concentrating activities around the patient and his needs, with particular emphasis on improving the quality of life of patients and their families; health care services provided to persons up to the age of eighteen; healthcare services provided to recipients outside the country. As indicated here, according to the original submission, up to PLN 4 billion is to be spent for these purposes from 2021 onwards. The law had an assumption of PLN 2 billion for 2020, but these are indications of the amounts that are included within the maximum expenditure limit, as referred to in the Public Finance Act, in terms of multiannual financing, which is indicated here as 10 years old. The Medical Fund is to be a state-owned special-purpose fund. The Minister of Health will be responsible for it. The Fund will separate 4 sub-funds: the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, the modernisation sub-fund of medicinal entities, the prevention development sub-fund and the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. As regards the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, support from this sub-fund will be able to obtain strategic projects under investment programmes that will be established for the construction, reconstruction, modernisation or upgrading of strategic infrastructure. The proposals for a strategic project within the framework of a competition organised and carried out by the Minister of Health may be submitted either by a healthcare provider qualified in the basic system of hospital care provision at oncological, paediatric, pulmonological and nationwide levels, or by a medical institution on behalf of a medicinal entity fulfilling the previously stated conditions for which the institution is a founding entity. The assessment of strategic proposals will be carried out by the Minister of Health who will then prepare and approve the ranking list of these proposals. After approval of the ranking list, he will call on applicants to submit draft investment programmes for strategic projects. These projects will be presented to the Council of Ministers for the purpose of establishing investment programmes. If the Council of Ministers decides to implement a strategic project within the framework of an investment programme, the Minister will conclude a contract with the applicant for the project to finance the project. In case of identification of the appropriateness of support other than the proposed strategic projects, the Minister for Health will be able to draw up the draft investment programme himself and submit it to the Council of Ministers for the purpose of establishing an investment programme. In turn, a sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities will be used to support the development of care and care provision infrastructure, support for consolidation processes of medicinal entities, support for medical rescue infrastructure and the exchange of hospital beds. And here I would like to point out that as far as the strategic infrastructure sub-fund is concerned, there is a category of entities that we talked about either the hospitals of the highest degree of reference, or the medical university that runs the hospital in question, but as far as the sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities is concerned, it is absolutely possible to apply for funding also in the case of district hospitals. District hospitals are not excluded from the scope of the potential beneficiaries of this law. As far as the modernisation sub-fund is concerned, such funding will be possible under an investment programme established by the Council of Ministers on the basis of a draft of this programme prepared by the Minister of Health and the selection of proposals to be financed will take place by means of a competition announced and carried out by the Minister of Health. The funding from the preventive development sub-fund could be used to strengthen the role of primary health care doctor, primary health care nurse and midwives in increasing the reporting capacity of women and men for research under health programmes and health policy programmes based on health prevention. It is also possible to co-finance the support of local self-government units for health policy programmes on health prevention in the priority areas defined by the Minister for Health for a given year. The funds from this sub-fund will be transferred by the Minister of Health in the form of a special grant to the National Health Fund. Measures to strengthen the role of POZ doctor, POZ nurse and POZ midwife will be allocated to finance correction factors used in primary healthcare for healthcare provided by healthcare providers meeting the criteria set out in the Act. In turn, for measures to support actions implemented by local government units, the maximum level of funding for a single health policy programme will be 80%. the measures envisaged for the implementation of this programme. The selection of applications for funding of health policy programmes will take place through a competition which will be announced and carried out by the Minister of Health. A very important element of this law is the functioning of the therapeutic and innovation subfund, whose main intention is to introduce solutions that will serve to identify unmet medical needs. Therefore, part of the funds of this fund will be allocated to. and this I would like to emphasise very clearly the introduction of unlimited hospital and specialist services for children, which is related to the queues of paediatric patients in Poland for outpatient specialist advice, and in some voivodships also for hospital treatment, e.g. Surgical. In addition, children are the largest group of patients suffering from rare diseases, and especially for their needs, this law is intended to require not only therapy but also diagnostics, including molecular services, which are carried out as part of specialized services both outpatient and hospital services. Here we have a very clear qualitative change when it comes to the entry into force of this law. This was the intention of the President of the Republic that these are unlimited hospital and specialized services for children. The cost of healthcare provided to recipients outside the country will also be financed from the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. The identification of unmet medical needs will be one of the criteria newly introduced under the Act on the Medical Fund for early and conditional access to high-clinical drug technologies and access to high-innovation drug technologies. These are solutions that accelerate the reimbursement process. A category of high-clinical drug technologies has been introduced, which will also make up for the many years behind in the reimbursement policy. The Act will also require the Agency to continuously identify unmet medical needs and effective medicines in the field of medical technology assessment and Tarification. These are solutions that are especially dedicated to rare diseases and cancer. Here we point to the needs of new anticancer medicines in this area. Both these objectives related to cancer issues and those related to the treatment of rare diseases fall within the scope of this law. Compared with existing solutions, the provisions of the Act will allow simplified and implemented rescue access to drug technologies at voivodship level. The creation of a therapeutic and innovation subfund aims to improve and accelerate the access of Polish patients to the latest therapies both drug and non-drug, including treatment abroad. 4 sub-funds under the Medical Fund will finance: healthcare services to children until the age of eighteen, in particular cancer and rare diseases; benefits to recipients outside the country; purchases of modern medicines and medicines; health programmes and health policy programmes; construction and modernisation of the strategic infrastructure of medicinal entities; modernisation of hospitals, as well as purchases of modern medical equipment. I would also like to comment on the constitutional question here. In our view, there is no constitutional doubt. In fact, this kind of comment appeared in the opinion of the Legislative Office, but the proposal to amend the provision or amendment which was related to that remark refers to the question of changing the content of the provision in order to replace, in particular, words with words at least. And the general appeal or the basis for the alleged objections as to the compatibility with the Constitution is to be Article. 2 constitutions. We, along with the Ministry of Health, considered these comments to be unreasonable and inaccurate. And that was our position not to accept this amendment. The Commission accepted this amendment. Well, referring to reservations about the compatibility of the Act with the Constitution seems to me to be a direct statement It's totally unjustified, incoherent and unsubstantiated. The opposite is the law serves to implement the principles expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, especially the right to health protection. In particular, it is about supporting children who, on the basis of Article, are involved. 68 Constitutions are identified as a special category, a group of patients who should have medical needs. This appeal to the alleged constitutional objections required justification. And spending issues, with regard to the law, spending at 6% GDP. In the course of the work on the Law in the Sejm, there was an amendment relating to the Act on the provision of health care. In fact, there was a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject. The position of the Ministry of Health, which is more able to justify, is as follows: Minister Sławomir Gadomski. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000000. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Act on the provision of public-funded health care does not directly fall into this minimum limit of expenditure on health finance since the Medical Fund is not indicated in paragraph 1. 3 of this article, i.e. Article 2 131c, which enumeratively indicates measures included in health care expenditure. And that's the answer right out of the recipe. It should be noted that in accordance with Article. 8 These measures, contributions from the State budget by the Minister responsible for Health, shall be made, in accordance with Article. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 point 1 of the Act on Benefits, recognised in the health expenditures as budgetary expenditure in the part of the budget of the State to which the Minister responsible for Health is responsible. In other words, this part of the medical fund's revenue includes indirectly health expenditure. So the fund isn't directly, but the funds that the Minister of Health is responsible for, by way of payments, as a source of revenue for the fund... They in this part will be indirectly included in these health expenditures. That is why these discussions at the committee meeting, because matter here is actually quite complicated as regards issues related to the category of recognition of these expenditures. Let me be absolutely clear: of course, there is no limit to resources or expenditure; no funds at the Minister's disposal today will be spent to achieve those objectives which are expressed in the article. 3th Medical Fund Act. We are talking about additional measures, additional strictly dedicated measures... Rare diseases, oncology, treatment abroad, unlimited benefits for children, about all these elements I have mentioned. These are resources that are additional. But these additional funds do not, of course, limit what the Minister of Health had planned in the 2020 budget and what he has in his budget. What amounts will this be as from 2021 will depend on the budget law, with the statutory assumption that these amounts are within this expenditure limit of up to PLN 4 billion. The amendment proposed by the committee to increase this amount to PLN 4 billion 200 million. We are talking about additional measures from the perspective of the whole system of measures, we are talking about solutions related to specific needs. The budget bill will, as I have pointed out, determine what amounts it will be. This law was positively assessed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. 440 Members representing all clubs except one wheel It voted in favour of this law. The law was very widely consulted, discussed. It has been underway for months with experts from the National Development Council. This work was coordinated by Professor Piotr Czauderna in the National Development Council Health Protection Section. Of course, the bill was made in very close cooperation, for which I would like to thank once again, with the Ministry of Health, with the National Health Fund, and also with the agency I pointed out here. And these solutions were mostly based on the needs that patients have reported to us. The patient environment also appreciates this law very positively. During the work in the Seym we also accepted comments which were reported by the patient environment. The establishment of the Medical Fund responds to the expectations and social needs of expanding access to modern treatments and medicines to ensure effective diagnosis and therapy. It will allow children and other patients suffering from rare diseases and cancer-related healthcare services in modern hospitals, if necessary also outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, I would like to ask your senators to give a positive assessment presented by the President of the Republic of Poland and adopted by the Sejm of the Act on the Medical Fund. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Senator Kazimierz Kleina's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I do not doubt the purpose of these expenses and programmes to be implemented by the Medical Fund. These are really important things. But is it worth creating for this purpose a new entity that is de facto separated from the public finance sector, an entity that will cost? The service of the Medical Fund will cost about 40 million PLN a year. Could these tasks, as set out in this Act, not be carried out by the National Health Fund as a specialized institution that we had established years ago? It may not work perfectly, but I think it's worth correcting. But creating another fund as an isolated body, which has its entire administration, as it turns out, council, etc., plus officials... And it's all gonna cost 40 million zlotys. Does that make sense? The funds that will be made up of this fund will probably come from the National Health Fund, which is specialised in financing such tasks, and from the state budget in the part assigned to the Minister of Health. So I think... Don't you also think it would be easier, easier and cheaper if this project, these programs you mentioned here, were implemented by these two bodies? Maybe they should coordinate all these tasks more closely between themselves, maybe even a council should be set up to manage these issues, but to put in place the whole administrative mechanism and include in the bill that the cost of this will be 1%. the value of the fund... It is written that up to 1%, but in practice, as we know from experience, dispatchers always use the maximum amount that is permitted by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u12	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u13	Dear Marshal! Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, in the article. 3 we have very clearly stated the objectives of this law. And these objectives are important enough, as we point out, that there is a need of this kind, in order to have them at the disposal of the Medical Fund as part of the separation of these expenses. These are the goals I was talking about: rare diseases, cancer, oncology, treatment of children. Such a need was also reported by patient environments. We know this from literature, but also from speeches that appear in public space. That's why these measures are specially dedicated. Secondly, with regard to the costs of the National Health Fund... The Minister has detailed knowledge here, but to my knowledge, these are the costs of the order. 0.9%. So, if we're even talking about the resources at the disposal of the National Health Fund, the cost of operating the NFZ is at this level, very low on a comparative basis, as we should say. The Act assumes that up to 1% Maximum, that's the maximum level This appropriation is intended to cover the costs of the medical fund. Thus, I think it can be said that the operating costs of the Medical Fund will not be higher than the costs in the event that these funds are allocated under the NFZ budget. Conversely: in the discussion, in the Minister of Health's assurances, we heard very clear statements that these funds would be at the minimum operational level possible for this fund. I think they'll be lower than the 0.9%. This is certainly what the Minister of Health will want to do, in line with the principles of such cost-effective management, which he is guided by as the manager of the Fund and which he is also bound by the Public Finance Act. I'd be absolutely... I don't want to go into a debate with the senator here, but I wouldn't deny one thing, I mean. the board of the fund. The board of the fund is an organ... [[I didn't...]] ...opinionary-advisive. But it must be pointed out that, in addition to these important tasks, in terms of advice, which include the assessment of the allocation of funds and the annual analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Fund's operation... It should be pointed out that the Council is composed of, among others: representatives of patient associations whose statutory tasks include matters falling within the scope of the Act. A representative of the ombudsman shall also enter the Council. So this is the element that shows that such needs will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. This advice, opinion, analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of fund funding will also come from representatives of the patient's environment or the ombudsman's patient rights. That is why I believe that, of course, we have rightly accepted in this law that we are talking about a new national special-purpose fund. Because these needs are such that... such a need really exists. And those concerns you've been talking about, the senator, they don't appear. Well, the costs will be on the level... There is nowhere to talk about the amount of PLN 40 million, this amount does not appear anywhere. Costs are up to 1% the funds at the disposal of the Fund. [[4 billion PLN, Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u14	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u15	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to say that I share... [[Microphone.]] Do you want me to put your card on? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Excuse me. I'm asking you kindly to add more time. I would like to say first of all that I share Senator Kleina's doubts and views. I wanted to ask you this myself, but I'm glad the matter has been raised. And I would like to say this: the debt of Polish hospitals is currently unknown. The data provided by the health resort for the past year is more than PLN 15 billion, of which more than PLN 2 billion is due debt. A year earlier, data showed that 92% hospitals are in debt. On average, this debt amounted to PLN 2.7 million. For this reason, they appeared in the area of public discussion when this initiative, this project, the statements that it is so de facto a dummy action that it is an action It's purely electoral. Because we know at what time this initiative came along. Especially when it was decided to transfer PLN 2 billion to government television, to the demands of citizens, society, as well as parliamentarians, to allocate this money to health care, specifically to help in the field of oncology. And I would like to ask, then, Minister, to what extent, in your opinion, this initiative will help to extend health care, improve health care facilities, especially hospitals, and improve health protection. How do you deal with these allegations, how would you respond to those allegations that were directed, namely that this is an act that is shamed and aimed solely at the electoral effects of President Andrzej Duda's election campaign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u16	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't share such arguments at all, I find them completely inappropriate. The whole discussion is of a nature Let me get this straight. Very political. Such arguments do not arise from the environment of patients who are waiting for this law and who want these solutions to enter into force as soon as possible. They appear in the mouth of politicians, political opponents of the President who tried to build this kind of false alternative, talking about the supposed allocation of funds to public television instead of oncology. There is no provision of law that provides for any legislation on the planning of such measures. It's a completely false case. However, of course, the President has consistently attached great importance to matters relating to health care since the beginning of his term of office. We remember a number of presidential initiatives in this area. It is enough to mention the adoption of the first Polish cancel plan of the National Oncology Strategy was adopted on the basis of a law drafted by the President of the European Union, and it is enough to mention the issue of the fight against melanoma. Well, this is an example cited by the World Health Organization. Thanks to the President of the Republic of Poland, Poland is shown as a model for other countries in terms of effective action in the fight against melanoma through the solar bill. Finally, as part of this discussion, he appeared... This is not a whole new request, because for months or even years there have been discussions on this subject. There is a need to complement the system with special solutions that will focus on treatment abroad, the treatment of rare diseases, especially as regards the needs of minors. The bill was, as I said, very widely commented by experts. Well, as promised... Of course, the senator is right: Mr President kept his word and, as he had promised, directed the bill to parliamentary work. We are talking about a law that will affect the existence of medical entities, a law that also provides for financing infrastructure tasks. As we know, the NFZ finances benefits, not investments. We are talking about a sub-fund for strategic investment, we are talking about a sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals, we are even talking about concrete actions such as the replacement of hospital beds. Well, there was a discussion about that, too. On the one hand, we are talking about major projects that will be implemented at national level, these are projects included in the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, but on the other hand we are talking about modernisation, which will apply to indebted county hospitals. I think that all of us who sit in this room would like it not to be that the average age of a hospital bed is 15 years. That is why we have set out in this law, within this sub-fund, this purpose. When it comes to these modern drug therapies or unlimited benefits for children, this is a huge revolution, a huge change expected by the patient's environment. I emphasize this element because this is something that results from the discussion with the patient environment. This isn't a sham, unfortunately I can't agree with the senator. Nor are these political actions. The needs have been identified and a response to these needs has been prepared in the form of a good, very widely consulted piece of legislation which has been presented to the High Senate. Thank you very much. [[I'd like to ask you one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u18	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u19	There's only one thing I'm gonna bring up. Well, I've already touched on this important, important matter in my opinion, which is the destiny of these 2 billion PLN for television instead of for health care, including oncology. I would like to ask you this directly: does the Minister believe that the President's initiative, so praised by the Minister... I'm not questioning her, I'm just saying what it looks like in the context of a dramatic situation in health care. If these 2 billion instead of TV had gone to the fund that the Minister is presenting today, would it have been a better expense for you than the one that was made at the time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u20	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u21	We are dealing with an increasing burden on health care. If we look at this expenditure from 2015 to 2020, we will see that more than 30 billion have increased the amount available to health care in public funds. These expenditures grow year by year and also increase expenditure on on oncology. This is apparent as regards issues related to the NFZ budget. Mr Gadomski certainly has such data available to you on several occasions. Well, they were also discussed in the High House. On the question of whether there should be more resources for specific healthcare-related purposes, I am, of course, answering that these amounts should increase. The President clearly supports a law that involves spending at 6% GDP. The Ministry here can clarify that, but to my knowledge, we are this year. we have already implemented these expenditures at this level, which is foreseen by the benefit financing law, as regards this threshold set for 2020. Measures which, after the entry into force of the Medical Fund Act, are additional measures which will not be lost I would like to stress here that what will be defined this year, and not spent, will be passed on to 2021. Of course, they're also needed. Without going into specific political considerations, I will say this: of course, as an experienced politician, he is aware that there are also defence expenditures within the functioning of the state, and that there are public mission expenditures for public media, which is also an element of activity, a desirable and necessary element. We could exchange different spheres for a very long time, even if we talk about business in a moment... As I understand it, the High Senate will address the issues of state activity in the field of foreign policy, where there are also certain expenditures. Well, Mr. Senator, as a man of great knowledge and experience, is aware that there are different categories of public spending. The role of the legislative authority, the executive authority, is to define these expenditures, rationally, cost-effectively, economically, when there are needs, from the perspective of the public interest, of the interests of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u23	Thank you very much. But, Minister, I'm gonna pull the funding, because he seems to be the most important one here. The Minister continues to stress that improving health and life is the most important element and that additional funding is important precisely for this improvement in health and life. However, according to the article. The 8th Medical Fund Act is financed by the state budget in the part at the disposal of the Minister of Health. This means that measures which are included in public health expenditure are in line with the implementation of the 6% Act. GDP. Two days ago, the Council of Ministers held a meeting, a government budget was adopted, which shows that there is indeed an increase of about 11 billion in expenditure on health protection, according to the implementation of the Act 6% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. However, there are no other additional sources of funding to be allocated to the Medical Fund. So the use of the words additional financial means, in my opinion, is overinterpretation, because these are merely marked means, they are marked money, not extra money. I ask you once again to make a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! 2 elements. First, the revenue of the fund in Article. The 8th Medical Fund Act is covered more than merely by contributions from the State budget sent by the Minister responsible for Health to the amount determined by the Budget Act. Here are: revenue from fees referred to in Article. 8 in point 1; interest on the funds collected is in point 3; voluntary contributions, donations, records, in point 4; also receipts from other titles indicated in point 5. Thus, there is no such view, one to one, that all these amounts, which are made up of the Medical Fund, are included under the 6% Act It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Like I said, according to the article. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 point 1 of the Act on Benefits, they will be included in the expenditure on health protection as budgetary expenditure in that part of the budget of the State, which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Health. So this effect that you spoke about is going to happen, but in relation to the measures that we discussed at the committee meeting, not about the whole Medical Fund. But this needs to be separated. Secondly, we speak very clearly about this... Of course, the senator is right that these measures are for the specific purposes and needs referred to in Article. 3, but we are also talking about increasing measures, because no measures from the NFZ or any measures, as I said, which are the responsibility of the Minister of Health, within the framework of any objectives that are already being pursued, will be limited by the fact that this law will enter into force. On the other hand, there will be new money in the system, which in part will be included under this 6% regime. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. This year, as we point out, and according to my knowledge, this limit is already exhausted. From last year it will amount to PLN 4 billion. So that there is absolutely a justification for these solutions that we are discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u27	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, in principle, the law provides for the distribution of these funds by means of competitions, says the article. 4. But there's another article, Art. 9, which says that the manager of the fund may order tasks to be carried out by agreement, i.e. bypassing the competition procedure. This way of agreement and the possibility to distribute these funds for commission is without criteria, there is no justification, no proposal, no allocation algorithm and it is highly discretionary. Do you confirm that there are 2 modes of distribution of medical, competition and non-competition funds to carry out the same tasks, all or part of them listed in the article? Seven? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u28	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! High Izbo! Of course, the manager of the fund is the Minister of Health. As I said, at every stage we consulted the law with the Ministry of Health, we know, with the professional body and with the entity who has the competence conferred here. The fund will provide 4 sub-funds: strategic infrastructure, modernisation of therapeutic entities, prevention development, therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. Moreover, it is clear from the Act that certain amounts, in terms of therapeutic and innovation issues or certain other elements, are guaranteed by the Act on a certain level of minimum funding. And that was also the subject of discussion at the committee meeting, and that's what the senator was asking. On the other hand, it is important to ensure that the fund's manager provides for the mobilisation of all the sub-fund, i.e. both the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, the modernisation of medicinal entities, the development of prevention and the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. Within the objectives which are expressed either in Article. 3 or in connection with the allocation of funds from the Fund, which is expressed in Article. 7, some of these measures will be distributed via the National Health Fund and this is very clearly provided for in the Act precisely in connection with the resolution of the article. 9. So in order to allow for the smooth distribution of these funds, you also indicate in the course of the discussion that such needs and situations may occur, the article was introduced into the Act. 9. As far as the details of this legal solution are concerned, I am convinced that the Ministry is able to present the issues of thought and practice as regards its future action.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u30	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question. Why did the Act provide support for consolidation processes regarding medicinal entities? What's the point? That's some sort of system target. Until now, the consolidation of therapeutic entities has been equal to a reduction in beds, a reduction in the number of branches, because that is generally the case for consolidation. I think that if there is going to be a hospital development, if that's what we want, there should be new hospitals, new branches opening up, etc. So far, the word "consolidation" has been associated in the history of our health care rather with elimination, reduction of numbers, so-called. linking troops. This is the consolidation that this law will support with money, while it should rather support hospitals and branches that want to create new places to treat sick people. As we know, now this It's really missing. So my question is, why consolidation, not expansion, expansion? Is there any process to control the spending of money under the article? Nine, which means no competitions? We now have an extensive system of control over hospital expenses, hospitals have to report purchases of more than 200 thousand PLN to CBA and those which are carried out in connection with the fight against COVID. Is there some kind of control process going on here too, so direct? It's known to be money spent without a competition. Or is it only during the implementation of the law that this will be resolved somehow? I would ask you to answer the question of controlling the money spent outside the competition and what the intentions of consolidation of medicinal entities are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u32	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As far as control issues are concerned, Article. In paragraph 10, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: I've already pointed that out. It is noted that the tasks of the Council of the Medical Fund should also be to carry out, on the basis of information provided by the Minister responsible for Health, the National Health Fund and the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, annual analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Fund's funding: drug technologies; health care services provided to persons until the age of eighteen; healthcare services provided to recipients outside the country in terms of improving their availability and preparation of recommendations for the future. Among the tasks of the Council of the Medical Fund we have an opinion on the allocation of funds or advice on the tasks of the Fund. The control element is an element expressed in the law also by the tasks of the board. I am, of course, not talking about the other competences of the eligible actors who may be involved in this regard, but about the fact that such a mechanism has been incorporated into the law itself. As I said, representatives of the Minister, 2 representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland, the representative of the Prime Minister, the President of the NFZ, the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification, the ombudsman and representatives of patient circles will participate in this process on an ongoing basis. We have, of course, the rules of the Finance Act and the Government Control Act. With regard to the objectives or the allocation of funds, of course, we have the construction, reconstruction, modernisation and upgrading of strategic infrastructure, this is the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, and the financing of the task of modernising, refurbishing or supplementing medicinal entities within the framework of the modernisation of medicinal entities sub-fund. The word consolidation, which, I understand, concerns the senator to some extent, does not have to be understood in terms of merger. This could also be a matter of transformation. We are talking here about the needs that the fund board identifies, we are talking about the needs that local government or the Ministry of Health identifies. I think that Minister Gadomski is able to identify all of this in detail or in more detail. With regard to the profiling of medicinal entities, concentration of competence, concentration of infrastructure and highly specialised personnel, this does not apply to... It is primarily about clinical hospitals or voivodship hospitals, but this kind of rationalization is justified and necessary at the level of hospitalization at all. We are talking here about specific objectives, which are expressed in the law, these particular needs. This concentration doesn't pose any threat. On the other hand, this is the way out. to meet the needs that have been signalled and identified by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u34	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u35	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to stress that the Medical Fund Act is another very positive project by President Andrzej Duda. I would like to thank you very much on your hands. The explanatory memorandum to the Medical Fund Act states that these measures will support health and quality of life through adequate infrastructure, prevention and diagnostics in the treatment of cancer and rare diseases. These amounts, i.e. those 2 billion in this year and 4 billion in the following years, until 2029, will be transferred to the funding of the addition of strategic health care providers, hospitals, as well as preventive programmes and innovative drug therapies. And I'd like to ask you a question here. The Senator rapporteur pointed out that county hospitals could be missed. Will county hospitals be allowed to use this law, the Medical Fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you very much for this question and thank you also for the positive assessment of this bill presented by your senator. I share this positive assessment and thank you for those words. Of course, the sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals mentioned here can also benefit from district hospitals. County hospitals aren't excluded from this. As regards the strategic infrastructure sub-fund, there is a certain category of entities that are entitled to apply for funds under this sub-fund. It's a deliberate procedure. But, contrary to what could have been done, I think it was unintentional to get the Senator rapporteur out of his statement, there is no exemption, as far as county hospitals are concerned, from the hospital modernisation sub-fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As a matter of fact, we have recently heard a lot about the promises to create funds, various funds, among others. the modernisation fund for hospitals or the modernisation fund for schools. That's why I'd like to ask you if, according to your knowledge, the idea of setting up a hospital modernisation fund has been abandoned? Will this fund include the second fund to be created? This is the first case. And the other thing. President Andrzej Duda announced that the medical fund would lead to no more public collections, which is of course very important for children's oncology, for the treatment of rare diseases. And here I would ask for a brief and very concrete answer to the question: do you know if children's dropouts will disappear within six months, even within the framework of the project? Is this Medical Fund gonna make those dropouts disappear?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u41	Mr. Senator, of course the means... That's the question. directly to the Minister of Health. We are discussing a presidential bill, and together with Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek, we are entitled to speak on this matter, which is directly on the presentation of the President. As far as measures for modernising hospitals are concerned, this is, as I understand it, a much wider range of expenditure, activity and activities than only those covered by the hospital modernisation sub-fund in the Medical Fund Act. So I accept that, however this question has been addressed to me, the expertise and the possibility of a full answer is on the part of the Ministry of Health, the answer to the question about what modernization measures are being taken, how they will be understood and how they will be carried out in the near future. Although, of course, these elements under this law and this sub-fund indicated in this law are, at least in part, present. Well, I wouldn't want to... because I think the incorrect or incorrect answer would be to say that these are all the resources that are for the modernisation of hospitals, because this is not objectively so. The Minister of Health is responsible for the measures and these objectives are very broad. With regard to the validity of this law, issues of treatment abroad and issues of unlimited child benefits, this is a qualitative change. We are talking about unlimited benefits for children, so we are saying that there will not be such a situation when it comes to outpatient treatment or hospital treatment, that there is no possibility to perform a given medical procedure or to perform some procedure, because the resources have been exhausted. This limit will be lifted. And this is the solution that the President very clearly announced, which he presented, and the objective that will be achieved if the bill is adopted and entered into force. Similarly, among the objectives of the law we are talking about treatment abroad. The senator is talking about public gatherings, and these collections are very often about treatment abroad. If this falls within the scope of the procedures set out in the Act, treatment abroad is also possible to finance. That's what we wanted to achieve, and that's what we're going to achieve. You're asking the senator about monitoring the effects of this bill. I was talking about the council here, the council has a job to do. But also you senators, as I understand it, also the Ministry of Health, also Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland analyze how the law works in practice, what resources are spent every year on the needs of the Medical Fund, even in the context of the budget debate. This is a permanent process, which will be conducted and conducted by the public and by experts, and in particular by the appointed bodies. I think that these collections will be much less less in the area where these objectives will be met by the entry into force of this law, less where the resolution of this law will be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Brejza would like to ask. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u43	Minister, I ask you this because the fund is significantly extended, but not financially, but on a mission. A financial anchor... Senator Małecka is trying to guarantee the stability of this fund by means of an amendment. These are tasks related to modernization of hospitals, these are investment tasks, various types of prevention programs, etc. Hence, I care about such a declaration, the answer to the question whether public collections, public collections, which are a disgrace to Poland, will disappear in the next six months. There are no such gatherings in the West for the treatment of children.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u45	I see you're responding to Minister Sławomir Gadomski. The objectives of the fund are very thoughtful, they have been discussed very thoroughly, and the senator knows them very well. I understand that the senator expresses such concern about whether these objectives are adequately defined. In my opinion, they are adequately defined. We're talking prevention, diagnosis, treatment of civilizational diseases, rare diseases. Infrastructure-related elements are also needed here. I believe that if any gradation could be cultivated here, we should bear in mind that all the objectives that have been set here are ultimately serving what has been described as improving health and quality of life by providing additional sources of funding. So that's what we were aiming for, that's what we're thinking about, and above all, we're looking at the welfare of a minor patient or a patient who has a rare disease. The issue of quotas. Well, of course, I would like the amounts to be as much as possible, and I answer quite frankly. This will be finally decided in the course of the legislative work on the amount to be allocated to the Medical Fund. I'd like to see the budget bill And that was the intention of the President. Each year, adequate resources have been directed towards these needs, starting with the revision of the budget in 2021... Well, until the law comes into force, we cannot talk about spending here. It also depends on when this work will be completed, when this fund will be operational. And the issue of public collections. Public collections and charitable activities also take place in very wealthy countries, there are also countries which, in terms of the scale of health expenditure, are at a higher level than Poland. So a statement of this kind that there are absolutely no public gatherings in some country... Well, that could be different circumstances. - whether it concerns an individual belief that treatment at a given or other centre is justified, even if national treatment is available, or that the patient prefers one specific centre from the number of centres involved. We're talking about a system solution, and that's what the president was talking about. It is intended to support the provision of healthcare services to people up to the age of 18 and to take into account treatment abroad. And such legal solutions or such a model of action has been expressed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u46	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, I have two questions. I'm very scared because such a broad spectrum... you, speaking of this fund, mentioned a lot of departments that need to be improved, and you also talked about investments. I'd like to extend Senator Breja's question. I'll explain why. How much, specifically, for these horrible cancers... How much will the oncology fund be strengthened? I myself recently had a terrible cancer disorder and received two proposals, Minister. The first offer, from the national fund, was to wait for this horrible six-month procedure. Second That it will be from Monday to Tuesday, but commercially. I want you to be aware of that. How much do you think this fund will improve oncology services? And my second question. If the Minister of Health isn't here, I'm gonna have to ask you. Do you have any idea how much a nation is suffering right now, waiting for a flu vaccine? I want to tell you that in my district, people are pissing in an amazing way. As my district lies above the German border, people buy 25 euros for 1 vaccine there. I am addressing you because the President of the Republic, your boss, said at the election rallies that where the government cannot, he will try to help our society. So I'm asking you... I want you to know, too, that there are so-called drugstores. Social queues. I'm in two hundred and fifty-three. If I had signed up commercially But I don't think I'd be in the forty-eightth place. And one last thing. Minister, you have to have a sense of shame to... the government's urging the compatriots to inoculate themselves for the flu, because it helps when it comes to COVID-19. The government often refers to the German government. Minister, but the German government has been giving vaccines for its nation for a month and a half. I wish you would be such a government someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u49	Mr. Senator, first correction. There are two vice-ministers of health present in the room. You are Minister Maciej Miłkowski and Minister Sławomir Gadomski, both listening to this debate. They also come forward, as I can see, because of their willingness to give a full answer to all your questions. So you do not have to refer here to information or knowledge of the President of the Republic of Poland, since the Minister of Health is represented at this meeting. So I'm simplifying the information that the Minister is not interested in this and doesn't participate in the debate, because the physical presence of the ministers contradicts your thesis completely. I find that both these questions or threads... I do not want to interfere with the German Government and the Polish Government. My assessment of the functioning of this government is very positive. We also had an evaluation of the government's activities in 2019 when the elections were held. I agree with the senator that there are huge challenges to the pandemic, but this is the current information of the Minister of Health, which he presents; the Sejm also controls this activity on constitutional grounds. We have information that is presented. So I consider that these questions, however, are completely different from the matter in which I am, as it were, fixed. from the contents of the Medical Fund Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u50	Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have a question and a request that you reassure me once more or explain something about the Medical Fund and discretion. However, there will be people on the board of the fund who will be elected, nevertheless, by political environments. I have some experience as a former self-government officer There were various representatives on the social council. Such an arrangement could be applied in the Medical Fund. And my question. Will the representatives of any social bodies be part of this fund? And if they are, will these social bodies have a voice that can influence the decision? I'm bringing the question to who's gonna share the money. And my second question. Once again, I'd like to make sure the county hospitals can reach for that money. The Minister has confirmed it, but I'd like to hear it again. My hospital, i.e. The hospital from my city is a district hospital with a third degree of reference, but we are currently investing for nearly 35 million PLN, of which only 10 million are received from the European Union, because so much has been gained and for 25 million PLN the hospital has to borrow. Will such a district hospital with a third degree of reference be able to try to apply for these measures or not? Finally, I would like to hear whether public gatherings will not really be necessary anymore. I organized a fundraiser 2 months ago, gained 30,000 zlotys, collecting, scraping by zloty, at 10, 20, 30 zlotys, to equip our district hospital during the time of the coronavirus. Will hospitals now be provided with supplies of all necessary elements, for example, to combat the coronavirus and such public collections will no longer be needed? I'm not gonna have to organize this fundraiser anymore? I'll be grateful for your answer. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for noticing that this money is not the President's money, it is our money, it is common, and the President has an idea to spend our money. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u52	Thank you very much. I, before giving the floor to the Minister, will inform you that this was the last question in this series. There are 3 more people who will ask questions after the break, because now, as announced earlier, we will move on to the next item on the agenda. The Minister knows that. The debate will also be later. So please answer the last question in this series.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm brief on the senator's questions. With regard to the Fund's board, as we stress, 2 representatives of patient organisations, whose statutory tasks include matters falling within the scope of the Act, will be part of this board. This representation is very wide, there are representatives not only of government administration, there are also representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland in the number 2 and, of course, as we have pointed out, also representatives of the President of the NFZ and the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification, or, of particular importance, representative of the Ombudsman of patient rights. In our opinion, this formula of the personal composition of the council is appropriate. As regards the sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals, yes, I confirm that this sub-fund will also allow for notifications from district hospitals. This is in no way excluded under this law. With regard to public collections, it is certainly the case that the needs of health care are so broad that every person of good faith, every man whose financial situation allows him to do so, who wants to support either by purchasing equipment or by other actions, will be able to continue doing this kind of activity. As I said, it is not only Polish specificity, and it is not so that by the entry into force of the Act on the Medical Fund all the needs in terms of equipment, in terms of modernisation or treatment of all diseases will be met, because these needs are, I would say, unlimited. We can always talk about the fact that we will spend extra money on health care, and if we are rationally and cost-effectively managing it, that is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. At this point, we are interrupting this item, and we will continue to do so once we have considered item 14 of the agenda. Thank you very much for your time with the President's Office. We begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the state of Polish diplomacy. I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Paweł Jabłoński. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u55	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I have the great honour to present today on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in accordance with the request made by the Marshal of the Senate, information on the state of Polish diplomacy, about the state of Polish foreign policy. The Minister strongly apologizes to the High Senate that he could not be here in person due to an international visit that has already been made, which is about to begin. I will try to replace it as well as possible, in terms of this extremely extensive subject, with an extremely comprehensive point. I will try to say in this preliminary part about issues which are absolutely priority for Polish foreign policy, and about the actions that Polish diplomacy is taking in this area. I am convinced that the senators will have specific questions. Of course, I will try to answer these questions. also, as far as your capabilities are concerned, answer here. And if certain information requires clarification, we will be happy to reply in writing. As far as the fundamental priorities of Polish foreign policy are concerned recently, I think they could be divided into 3 parts. The first and absolutely most important strategic goal of Polish foreign policy is security; the second one, I think, is the issue of strong Polish presence in the European Union and the impact on how this most important international organisation to which we belong works; the third, also extremely important and connected with previous points, is Poland's strong position in the region and very good relations with our allies, with our closest neighbours. As far as security is concerned, maintaining a very strong alliance within NATO, a very strong 2-sided alliance with the United States, and also maintaining this alliance between our partners in Europe and our partners on the other side of the Atlantic remains an essential objective for Poland. We are well aware that today very often many politicians, especially in some European countries, are critical of their cooperation with the United States, and the United States is critical of their cooperation with some European countries. In the opinion of Poland, these disputes, which in politics, also international politics, are something absolutely normal, cannot obscure us with the strategic interest that we have in common. And we have a common security interest, a common interest in maintaining world peace, peace in our part of Europe, especially in our part of the world, but this translates into global security. And that's where Poland is trying. And I think that it is doing it with great success to play the role of a certain brigade, a broker of good relations between the United States and those countries of the European Union that do not approach these relations as clearly as Poland approaches them. We are very positive about them because we are aware of one very important thing: if it were not for an alliance with the United States after World War II, it would not have been possible to maintain peace so long in Europe. In the essential part of Europe, this peace has been maintained through a strong European-American alliance, through NATO, through strong transatlantic and military and economic and political ties. And even when the latter can sometimes be weakened due to ideological disputes, political disputes, this strategic goal remains absolutely in the first place. We're consistently reminding you of that. And I think that despite various disputes and sometimes more public statements than the substantive statements of some politicians We're doing this with some success. NATO has been able, especially in recent years, not so much to refocus, how much differently to spread its accents and put much stronger emphasis on the defence of the eastern flank than before, on the defence against the threat that we are all aware of, a threat from the East. Because the actions of our largest eastern neighbour in recent years, and especially in recent years, show that this country has not given up on a very aggressive policy, actively participates in armed conflicts, actively engages in various kinds of actions, including unfortunately criminal actions. We are consistently reminding of this. And also thanks to Polish diplomacy, thanks to consistent pressure of diplomats from Poland, diplomats from our part of Europe, who are aware of this threat, we manage to convince our allies to do so more effectively. The fact that in recent weeks, especially around the poisoning case of Aleksey Navalny, has been so strongly emphasized by the subject of sanctioning this very dangerous project A political and military project, not an economic one, because that is the main objective of the project. Nord Stream II, political and military precisely; and the fact that today in Europe, including Germany, but also around the world more and more politicians and publicists say that Nord Stream II should be sanctioned, that cooperation with Vladimir Putin should be refrained from and from pro-Russian real policy, pro-Russian economic policy, which is also the result of many years of pressure from Polish diplomats. And I think that's the best measure of effectiveness. Because it's not about announcing every time that every single meeting has led to some breakthrough effect. This is hard work, and this laborious work is so effective that today, on the European and global agenda, this is one of the number one themes. The second extremely important issue, such as that already directly translated into security, is, of course, the subject of military cooperation. As you know perfectly well, we have managed to communicate with the United States in terms of further increasing their military presence in Poland. And as we look at today what happened a few years ago, when this military presence of our allies was much smaller, more than 10 times smaller, we will see that today our security is simply physically much better guaranteed. Because the risk that someone will attack us in a situation where we have an ally army on our territory, which we have never had on such a scale in our history, is simply very, very small. Today we're just a safe country, thanks to the politics we're running, thanks to the diplomacy we're running. This aspect of security, of course, would not have been fully implemented if it had not been for diplomatic action on other sections. And the European Union is above all such a section. I am aware and I am convinced that in the round of questions, in particular this aspect will be raised very strongly by you. Because in the press thesis, which are often placed, we hear that Poland's position in the European Union is very bad. That's what happens, for example. with regard to the various disputes that we have with European politicians, whether with regard to the shape of the European Union budget or with regard to the shape of the European institutions. Of course these disputes are, and of course, these disputes are very important and a very important element of our policy. Because you can conduct a policy without disputes, you can of course not enter into these disputes, you can consider that in a situation where our business requires you to go the right way, and most want to go the left way, we will not say that we have a different opinion, and simply together... for good relations to be nice and sympathetic, we will not express these interests. But we're guided by a different philosophy. We are guided by such a philosophy that Polish interests need to be spoken clearly, decisively, in such a way that it will allow gradually to change the vectors of world politics. Of course, it's not easy. And hard articulation of their interests also involves a reaction, often with a very violent reaction, with very sharp attacks, which unfortunately are often supported by politicians from Poland. It must also be made clear that some kind of action by our national politicians should not take place. Because foreign policy is an area that should remain outside the political dispute. The interest of Poland is that the European Union will develop in a way that will take into account our needs, needs of Poland and also the needs of our region, as I will say at the end. Because we're facing a great deal of danger today. We are facing an enormous danger of increasing Euroscepticism in some countries that have been operating in the European Union for decades. We have seen this very well in the budget debates, in the debates on the shape of the Union. We're getting in touch more and more. Not only do we, but also the countries of southern Europe, such as Spain and Italy, with allegations that we are in the European Union on behalf of other countries, that this is something that leads to an unfair division. Because some countries add more to European integration. This is obviously manipulation. In fact, it's just a rude lie. Because the common market and the fact that we are an economically integrated continent make all countries, especially those most developed countries, like the countries of northern Europe, gain much more from this. And even though they pay higher contributions to the European Union, their economies gain even more. Our role, the role of Poland This was the main objective set by the government by Prime Minister Morawiecki, and before that by the government Prime Minister Szydło, it is to bring about a change in this very negative trend. When the first proposals on how the budget should look came up in 2017, everyone said, all politicians We also said that in Poland, because we saw that there was such a serious risk. The fact that it will be very difficult to negotiate a budget, which will be in an appropriate, appropriate and ambitious way, has led to cohesion in the European Union being maintained in order to further shorten the gap between more developed and less developed countries. And despite the fact that it was very difficult, in fact impossible, Poland managed to create a very strong alliance of countries that... Initially around the Visegrad Group, then around the countries that joined the European Union after 2004, a very strong group of Cohesion Friends was re-established. And this group was joined by one country after another. Also the countries of southern Europe. Today, in 2020, these budget negotiations started in February, were continued in mid-year, they were still concerned with the Fund for Reconstruction. In fact, the entire European Union has joined the Cohesion Friends Group, apart from the narrow group of countries we called It is not just us, because this term has been coined by journalists in Brussels by countries that are stingy, countries that do not want an ambitious Europe. This large group, this strong alliance, which Poland has just started with the Visegrad Group countries, has achieved historic success. We have built a budget, which will be the largest budget in history and will allow us to continue to move forward at a very fast pace so that we can achieve the standard of living as it is in countries that have been in the European Union for decades. Because this is the fundamental objective of our presence in the European Union The goal was achieved and I think this is the greatest success of Polish diplomacy in European affairs in recent years, because negotiating these budgets 7 years ago or 14 years ago, when we were a state at a much lower level of development, when completely different moods were in these richer countries, in the countries of northern Europe in relation to the countries of southern Europe... I'm not saying it was easy, but I'm sure it was easier. The success that has been achieved this year is absolutely historic. However, the largest budget in the times of the biggest crisis is not something that is achieved by itself, it has been developed by the great hard work of Polish diplomats, not only Polish, because of the participation of diplomats from the countries of our region. And this is the last of the most important parts, the last of the most important tasks, the most important strategic objectives of Polish diplomacy, regional cooperation. We were able, first and foremost, to rebuild a very strong alliance within the Visegrad Group within the framework of the European Union and within the framework of the two-party relations. In 2015, the Visegrad Group felt treated by us in a very dishonest way, simply betrayed. I was recently in the Czech Republic and with the Czech government ministers we mentioned that period from 2015 through 2016, 2017, when this powerful mistrust caused by the government's decision at that time, the change of decision at the last moment, the support of this fatal migration compromise against the interests of the Visegrad Group, also against the interests of Poland... It's been taken horribly. We had a powerful challenge before us to rebuild this trust, and we managed to rebuild this trust very effectively, not only in budgetary matters, not only in matters that I had just mentioned, but also in other matters. Together with the Visegrad Group, despite the fact that the prime ministers, the heads of government of these countries were at some point in 4 different political camps, because in the European Parliament, Victor Orbán belongs to the same party as the Platform and the PSL, the Czech Republic and the Slovaks were members of the liberal socialist party, we were members of the conservative party, despite these political differences, we managed to create this very strong alliance beyond divisions. But there is not only the Visegrad Group, although of course this is the most spoken of in the context of the European Union. We are also building a much broader alliance in the region, and I think it will be visible in the coming weeks, after the Tri-marriage Initiative summit in Tallinn. The Tri-Morch initiative was launched in 2016, or actually in 2015, because the first talks started immediately after the election of President Duda for the first term of office. Thanks to this initiative, we have succeeded in rebuilding the historic alliance of the countries of our region, based above all on a common security objective, but also on a common economic objective. We are from the assumption that the fundamental problem, the fundamental source of inequality between the economies of countries that have been in the European Union for many years, and the economies of the countries of our region is infrastructure inequality, no North connections South in the field of land, road, rail and inland waterway transport, energy inequality and digital, i.e. in the area of this economic element, which will be extremely important in the coming years. Today, after the first four years of the initiative, when we are preparing for the Tallinn Summit, which will take place in three weeks' time, we can already say that this idea, initially very strongly criticised, found a very big response, met with a very positive acceptance. We are creating a Tri-Moor Initiative fund, which will be a powerful investment vehicle, with the participation of public and private investors. This will change the shape of the infrastructure in our part For the coming years, Europe will be a vehicle, which in a few years' time will make up for the distance between us and countries that could have developed much, much earlier. If we look at the report of the International Monetary Fund published two days ago, we will see in it that this kind of inter-regional cooperation, these infrastructure investments between the countries of our region represent an additional 1-1,5 percentage points of GDP each year. Yes, 1,1,5 percentage points of GDP additionally, beyond what our region is already achieving. We are the leaders of growth in Europe, so an additional 1.5 percentage points are billions of euros, billions that will translate into a higher standard of living in Poland and our region, a higher standard of living for our companies, our citizens, a higher income for our companies, as well as a higher income for the state and the possibility of spending more money on social policy. Because it remains the fundamental objective of our national policy, with which foreign policy is closely linked. Ladies and gentlemen, I could speak very much about all aspects of Polish foreign policy, but I would like the information that will be provided today to be the widest possible answer to your questions. I remain at your disposal, and I will try to answer all the questions. [[If you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u56	There are questions, yes. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal... that's a remark to the Minister about the subject and the statement that...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I can't hear you, Minister, Senator...]] But there's no... It's not recording. Into the microphone...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind... The proposal of the Group of Senators of the Civic Platform concerned the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the state of Polish diplomacy. We very much appreciate the fact that the Minister wanted to present information about foreign policy in the Republic of Poland, but what is the subject of our concern and our great concern is the state of Polish diplomacy. And we spoke to the Minister about this, both through and in my personal conversation with the Minister yesterday. So if the Minister, on behalf of Minister Rau, wanted to inform you about what Polish diplomacy looks like at the moment, you would meet our expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u58	Are you the Minister of...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u59	Mr. Senator, very briefly... Because this is an extremely general question: what is Polish diplomacy like? Polish diplomacy is headed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in co-operation with the Prime Minister's office in the field of European policy, in which the Minister for European Affairs carries out his duties. In addition, we work together with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Development of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency in the field of economic diplomacy. That's basically the structure. In addition, of course, individual ministries and state institutions also take international action on their sectoral or sectoral sections. As for the details of how specific episodes work, I think it would be best if I could answer specific questions. Because in general, you could write not even a book about it, but a whole series of books. So here you need a little bit more precision at the start, so you can also give the feedback with such precision.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u60	Thank you very much. Then the senators have questions. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u61	Minister, your speech, I must remind you a little bit of Minister Beck's speech from 1939, who spoke a similar language to you. And what happened after that, we all know. But ad rem. My question is that the ECFR survey conducted among more than 800 European experts, diplomats and other foreign policy players shows once again: 800 European experts • that Poland is the second country, after Hungary, the most disappointing European Union. And that raises my first question: what do you think? Second question. Poland is also among three countries, alongside Italy and Spain, most often seen as having an insufficient role in the European Union. And my third question. What do you think of the list of 300 ambassadors? In your opinion, is this not a failure of the government and, of course, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I hope so, Minister. Since you accused Senator Klich of asking a general question, That I asked three specific questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u62	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u63	Just like that? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Yes.]] Good. If I understand correctly, two questions have been formulated, because the third one was a certain thesis. You asked the senator what I thought about the poll in which diplomats pointed out that Poland is disappointing the European Union. I'm not surprised that opinions like that go around. Polish foreign policy changed in 2015 and some European politicians and diplomats who have so far enjoyed the fact that Poland does not cause any special problems and basically agrees, at the moment it may be disappointed that it has changed. But we will consistently disappoint our European partners in this context, because we are in the interest of... [[Applause]] ...our citizens, not European diplomats or even friendly countries. It's just that every country has its own interests. In the context of the letter of 300 ambassadors... I don't know exactly what you're referring to. Perhaps you refer the senator to the letter of the 50 ambassadors mentioned recently in the media. Such letters, as we have checked, almost identical content, have been written since 2013, only the list of ambassadors who sign under these lists is changing. Everyone has the right to write letters. And the number changes, and this number is getting smaller and smaller... We consistently remind... I have already said this and I will repeat it here in this Chamber, before the High Senate, that Poland agrees, the Polish government completely agrees that all people are equal to the law No one can be discriminated against for any reason. This is our constitution, which also states that marriage is a union between men and women. We are very clear about this because it is Polish law. Reiteration of this fact is not discrimination against anyone, it is simply showing respect for Polish law, for the rule of law, respect for values, which most Poles profess. About the thesis you put, without a question... The argument is that Poland, Italy or Spain play an insufficient role in the European Union. Undoubtedly, there is no principle of full equality in all countries in the European Union. We are very clear about this that double standards are often applied in the European Union. This must be said out loud that if some of the regulations present in the Polish system are treated differently than those present in other EU countries' systems, then this is the Just inequality and just double standards. And we're going to be consistent like this. Developing a more effective position, developing a more important role in European policy is a process. This is a process that needs to be directed at Polish interests, not just to have good relations and to be sympathetic. That's our policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u65	I want to ask you a very important question. You've talked a lot about the Visegrad Group. I was in a parliamentary delegation at a meeting of parliamentarians, and I must disappoint you. There wasn't such an atmosphere as you present to the senators in the Senate. Well, you're very often using these terms, and you're also referring to society as a whole. I think you're being a little misleading about this enthusiasm, especially about these investments. Seriously, stop talking about what's gonna happen, just start doing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u66	Thank you very much. Minister, are you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u67	Well, Mr. Senator, we disagree. We have the right to have different views on this subject. A very large number of politicians in other countries are also critical of their governments, which is also completely natural. All we can do is talk to our politicians. and from opposition, and members of coalition parties However, in order to maintain some consistency, unity and not to expose national disputes in international policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. I have a question, ad substance. Is there even a thoughtful policy towards the eastern neighbours: Belarus, Russia, Ukraine? Recently, relations with Ukraine have been... Well, they're not as good as they were a few years ago. There is a crisis in Belarus, Russia behaves as it behaves. Does the Polish government, the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs have a thoughtful vision of this policy for the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u69	First of all, I find it difficult to agree that relations with Ukraine are bad or worse than they were a few years ago. I think it is worth recalling that when there were very serious unrests in 2014 and then war broke out in Ukraine, with Russia's very active participation, Poland unfortunately did not find itself in a group of countries that formed a working group in Normandom format and tried to resolve this conflict. I think it also indicates that our foreign policy at that time, in 2014, when he was a minister I guess Mr. Radosław Sikorski wasn't really very effective. Our situation today, also in the European Union, is a little bit of a consequence of that time, when the real meaning of our diplomats was much smaller than it was sometimes presented. As regards the Ukrainian issues, I do not fully agree with the statement that our relations are bad. On the contrary, we are in the process of preparing a very important visit from the President to Ukraine, which will take place in the coming weeks. In recent months and even weeks We have signed a very important agreement with Ukraine on economic and fiscal cooperation. Our tax services and the Ministry of Finance will share Polish experiences with Ukraine in the fight against tax fraud. This has been a huge problem with us and is also a huge problem in Ukraine. In return, the Ukrainians declared their willingness to cooperate powerfully in a very important area for us, i.e. in terms of restoration and protection of Polish monuments, these monuments, which constitute Polish heritage, and which are today in Ukraine. Together with the Ukrainians, we make sure that this common Polish-Ukrainian heritage is preserved. Well, it's a powerful step towards taking care of this legacy. I have only given one example, but our overall policy towards Ukraine, towards Belarus, towards other eastern countries, even those further away from us, is primarily to actively encourage the politicians of these countries to cooperate with the European Union and NATO. Well, we're getting more and more successful, too. The issue of Belarus, of course, is an absolute priority in recent weeks. From the very beginning, on the first day after these fraudulent election results were announced, we made it very clear... It was the Polish government with Prime Minister Morawiecki who initiated this powerful action in the European Union, which led to the convening of an extraordinary European Council. This was done instantly, and in difficult conditions of the pandemic, although the subject of Belarus, of which we must be aware, is not a priority for countries located west of Poland. Very often we come across comments that unfortunately this is not a country that... We have heard this from even one of the EU Commissioners. Some view this as a non-European country. We remind you very consistently that it is not in the vital interest of the European Union that Belarus should be not only a democratic country, not only a free country but, above all, independent of Russia. Politically independent, economically independent, also militaryly independent. Of course, this is a process that will require a very long commitment, not only to Poland but also to the whole European Union. That's what our policy is all about right now, that's what we're doing. We want this to be a joint effort of the whole European community. Today we are on the eve of the next European Council. The Prime Minister is going to Brussels tomorrow, where he will present an economic cooperation plan, an alternative plan to the Belarusians, so that they do not have to cooperate only with Russia so that they can have a choice. This is not about bringing this directly into the European Union. Besides, we have the impression that most Belarusians are not ready for this today. Our role is not to force them into the structure of the European Union or to interfere in their internal affairs. On the contrary, we should be the guarantee that the Belarusians have the opportunity to choose, have the opportunity to democratically decide how their country is to develop. We want to give them an alternative to the economy, because the fact that they are dependent on Russia is mainly due to economic, raw and energy issues. By giving them this alternative, we hope that in the long term Belarusians will choose the path that will benefit them and, by the way, also for the whole of Europe, because it will increase stability on our continent. I think that is the fundamental issue in policy towards these two countries. Well, here you can't really ignore the Russian issue. It is Poland that is the country which, within the European Union, very consistently and unambiguously reminds that sanctions are imposed on Russia for its policy towards Ukraine, for its actions in Donbass, for its actions in Crimea, for the unlawful annexation of Crimea, as well as for the criminal activities and political murders that are still committed by various Russian officers, that is something that absolutely needs to be maintained. I am very pleased that there is full consistency in this respect, consistency over political divisions. I think that this Eastern policy, recently also in Belarus... Well, we've heard very positive assessments from some opposition politicians. We ourselves are very positive about the fact that many opposition politicians are personally involved in this. Thank you very much for having this situation, not a dispute, but over political divisions, above national disputes we are able to act together in strategic interest. I'm very happy that it is, and I hope it stays that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u70	Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u71	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, in February 2017, Minister Waszczykowski stated that he was prepared to file a complaint with the Hague Court on the return of the Tupole wreck and the Russian investigation. I have asked you several times why you do not file this complaint. And I was getting such very general answers that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is conducting analyses of a possible complaint to the MTS in The Hague and it is not possible to indicate the deadline for their termination. Please tell me what results in a delay of as many as three years in filing a complaint to the Court of The Hague. When will this complaint be filed?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u72	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u73	Mr. Senator, it is not the art of filing a complaint or sending further diplomatic notes because such notes have been sent to the Russian Federation very much. We see perfectly well that the Russians are using this element... This is also a negligence before... basically starting from 2010, when at the very beginning some wrong decisions were made and we were just strategically in a very bad position, because basically giving the investigation to the Russian side, giving full control of access to the wreckage today is just taking revenge on us all the time. This isn't about filing a complaint, sending a note, expressing outrage. Of course, in international politics, it has its weight in diplomacy, but when it concerns a partner like Russia, it simply did not have any effect. We assume that Russia should be maintained consistently and decisively in general within the European Union, because Russian actions affect not only Poland or our neighbours directly, but also had a direct impact on citizens of other countries, such as. Holland, I'm talking about shooting down an airplane over Ukraine in 2014. This is our consistent policy. It is not an objective of action only for action itself, but it is an objective of achieving results. These effects will certainly not be achieved tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, because this is simply a very long-term process, but we are convinced that a consistent policy within the whole alliance, which is the European Union, which is also NATO, will gradually achieve these effects.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u74	Thank you. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u75	Thank you very much, Marshal. Today, the European Commission will publish a report on the rule of law and compliance in all Member States. There is supposed to be a statement in this report, e.g. about the lack of political and party independence in Poland of the prosecutor's office, the security services... [[The voice from the room: The Security Service fortunately no longer exists.]] ...or public media and institutions such as the National Radio and Television Council or the National Media Council. It is said that this report also raises the issue of the obvious assassination of the Constitution in Poland and the independence and independence of the courts by the government that you represent, and the majority of the party that governs our country. There are also criticisms of the emerging threat to minorities, including LGBT people, and we have recently seen an intimidating increase in this threat. At the same time, the German Presidency proposed a new proposal for a mechanism to make the payment of European Union funds conditional on compliance with the rule of law, which is to be treated by the same report. In your speech, especially at the beginning, you raised the seemingly great merits of your government, the government, to negotiate large resources for Poland from the budget of the European Union. So, first of all, do you have any concern that all these funds will not be sent to Poland in the light of the proposal to make payments from European Union funds subject to compliance with the rule of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u76	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u77	Thank you very much for this question, because it's quite symptomatic. It is asked to me by a representative of a party who has done a great deal to ensure that the bodies of the European Union, the media abroad, speak precisely about Poland, that in Poland there is an assassination of a constitution, an assassination of civil rights, that the Polish state is an illegal state. So, of course, it's a feedback loop. Politicians, especially the Civic Platform, also other opposition parties, first try to accuse Poland of all possible crimes, some even openly demand financial sanctions, and then with fake concern they say: well, what will it be, if they take our money. Well, Mr. Senator, they're not gonna take our money, because we're gonna be watching people like some of your party's actions prevent this from happening in Poland. We have a tool to block such action in the European Union if necessary, because the European Union is a community of equal states. You're talking about the European Commission report, you're talking about what's supposed to be there. You probably already know what you're going to find, because I'm sure you've just been very thorough in your work on this report, and you've added a few more of your bricks in this area... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister...]] And if we have... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, could you go to the point, which is what the question was about? Well, it's not really a debate yet, that's the answer to the questions.]] Dear Mrs. Marshal, the senator accused me that I was involved in an obvious assassination of the constitution. I find it hard to imagine a greater charge in a situation where the state is based on a constitution. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Then please answer, but for today, Minister.]] I answer that I have another charge against the senator. I have a charge of attacking Poland, actions against the Polish national interest. Mr. Senator has charged me... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But the senator turns to the governments of earlier...]] Mr. Senator has charged me... You're welcome, Minister... ...and I refuse that charge, Mrs. Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: However, I would very much like to ask ad substance. You're welcome.]] [[Applause]] If that's the case, when in some report that's about to show up... I do not know the content of this report, but of course I expect what will be found in this report, because such documents have already appeared many times, were often created, could be found in electronic files, who created them, there were the names of politicians of the Civic Platform, e.g. Rafał Trzaskowski. We had such situations in which the same legal solutions in Poland were often considered to violate the rule of law. For example, the situation in which the National Judicial Council is elected by Parliament was considered unacceptable in Poland, but already the situation in which the judicial council in other countries of the European Union is elected by Parliament was completely correct. I'll tell you more, there are countries where politicians choose judges, they can even appeal judges. I don't know if you're aware of that. There is such a big country west of Poland, where there are political committees in 16 lands of this country, which can appoint and appeal judges, if for example. They don't like the sentences that go down there. Of course, the formal reason is given completely different. These are the principles in the European Union, because every country of the European Union has its own justice system, it has its own judicial system, it has its own justice system. This is the basis of the European Union, which is enshrined in the Treaty, that each country has the right to shape this system. If this report again finds such one-sided criticism, based on the use of a double standard, then we will consistently do the same, all the time. To remind you that this is simply unacceptable. If there are 2 countries with the same regulations, these regulations should be assessed exactly the same way. As far as the EU budget is concerned, don't worry, Senator. Really, if we did it because we've faced such a danger many times before... Many times there have been very noisy requests and in principle financial sanctions have been demanded, both from the country and from foreign institutions. It's just a money fight, actually, it really comes down to that. Strangely enough, it is those countries that want to reduce the EU budget, those countries that want the budget to be as small as possible to get as little money as possible to Poland, but also to countries such as Italy and Spain, to the south of Europe... The same countries repeat arguments about the need to link European funds with the so-called. The rule of law, but I stress that with the so-called rule of law, it is not the rule of law, it is the possession of a certain arbitrary tool which will allow one or another politician to point out that this country behaves politely, and this country must be punished. If there is a situation in which we are to have a uniform mechanism based on the criteria enshrined in the law, I would say hard, then let's put in this mechanism that judges cannot choose politicians. Well, only no one in Europe will enter it, because in every country judges choose politicians and this system is practically more politicized throughout the European Union than in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u78	Senator Szejnfeld wanted to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u79	Thank you. Well, if you're talking about the rule of law, I quote: The so-called rule of law, I take it you have given me the so-called answer. I would also like to hear your opinion on one point that I have raised. You missed the subject. I clearly disagree with your position as regards the assessment of the rule of law in Poland, including the issue of an attempt on the independence and independence of the judiciary. I would like to ask, because, as a diplomat, as a minister, you will receive such questions from abroad, whether in your opinion there is a growing threat to minorities of different types, especially This can be seen very clearly lately. LGBT people. Do you think this threat is increasing, or is everything cool, okay, and that's okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u80	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u81	This is not a foreign policy question, but of course I will answer that question. Indeed, this issue has been made, especially in recent weeks, a very important element of Polish foreign policy, because by some kind of story based on completely false premises, creating something that does not exist, i.e. so-called. LGBT free zones... I think, unfortunately, every one of you... As I recall, I think that each of you has such a statement in your account and each of you has a partial responsibility for the fact that today... I look first and foremost at the people on my left, which unfortunately means the page... [[Not everyone.]] Unprecise statements, and not so imprecise, but deliberately falsifying images of reality, are unfortunately a big problem for Poland. We really need to explain ourselves, say that there are no LGBT-free zones in Poland, that there are no zones where anyone is discriminated against. The fact that one or the other activist creates this kind of story and then receives political support from the politicians of parts of the opposition party is unfortunately a sad fact. I was talking about the fact that we can agree on some issues in foreign policy, but here, unfortunately, I am very disappointed to see the activity of many opposition politicians. It's just bad for Poland. You're creating something you don't have. There was a question asked by Senator Komarnicki about the senator's letter. Such letters were addressed to Donald Tusk when he was prime minister, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, Bronisław Komorowski when he was president. Nothing's changed. What changed in Polish law? The Constitution is what it was, marriage is a union between man and woman. We need to be clear about this. If anyone thinks it's necessary to change the constitution, maybe of course... [[Minister, I asked you if you think there's a growing threat to LGBT people, whether they're growing, and you're talking about completely different issues.]] Mr. Senator, I don't know the answer. Your question is inconclusive, so I allow myself to answer it on a broader basis. You're talking to me about growing a threat, and we don't have any data to show that the threat is increasing. I see that, and that is a very big threat, an increasing tolerance for illegal activities, violence on the streets, if those who commit this violence have the right political views. We saw this in August in the streets of Warsaw, when police intervention was interrupted by an aggressive crowd. The police tried to bring the court order, the aggressive crowd tried to thwart it, and then these people were defended, also by the states that are in this courtroom. I think it's very dangerous, because if we look... [[It's not...]] I've already answered your question, Senator. [[No. I'm sure...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please, Mr. Senator... This is not a discussion. Please...]] I don't have any data that says this threat is increasing. I see a different kind of threat. I see a threat of this kind that you often commit an excuse for violence if it is politically beneficial to you. It's very dangerous. Look at what's going on in the United States right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u82	Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! To be honest, I am astonished to hear this discussion, the debate, because I haven't met such arrogance in a long time. If you speak in such a tone in the European Union, I do not read well Polish diplomacy. Now, questions, specific. Minister, you said that international policy must take into account our needs, that this is a national interest. Whose? I have the feeling that we have a different understanding of the concept of national interest. For me, democracy is very important, but we have different perceptions of democracy, different definitions of democracy. At least that's what you said. Whose needs do you represent? All Poles or just one political option? Second question, also about what you said. You said the common market is profitable... Well, apart from the direct payments of the countries, because Poland pays, Germany pays... And now that's my question. I might add that you are right, of course, by saying that Western countries are gaining on the common market. That's right. And in your opinion, Poland is gaining something in addition to direct payments from the European Union, is it gaining on the common European market or not? Is free movement of goods, services, people this is also a profit for Poland, or is it just money? Another question. I have heard so much about Polish foreign policy. I would like to ask you whether, in your opinion, an alliance with Hungary, such a close alliance, is indeed in the Polish national interest. Because we're really in a fight with everyone. Can you name any countries besides Hungary that pursue a common policy with Poland? Only Hungary, I think. You also talked about Poland's great success and that this money, which will result from decisions concerning, for example, a common policy of a group of countries of Visegrad... Well, it will promote the further development of Poland. Are you aware of Poland's current debt, the economic situation of Poland, and how quickly this debt grows? And another question. Minister, do you think the motion for arrest for controllers made by Minister Ziobra concludes the subject of the Smoleńsk disaster in the context of, well, the insinuation of the assassination? Will this proposal be supported in any way by the Polish diplomatic services? The fact that Minister Ziobro made such a request, in my opinion, is about to end the conspiracy theory of the Smolensk disaster. And now, at the end, a spoonful of honey in a barrel of day. Indeed, I and not only myself, I think, see the positive actions of the government, the ministry and the Prime Minister related to the policy towards Belarus. Indeed, recent weeks have shown that Poland has taken the right place among countries that are directly interested in restoring democracy and the rule of law in Belarus. So in this case I can commend the government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u84	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u85	Thank you very much. One at a time. As for the first question, whose interests we represent, I answer that we really represent the interests of Poles. It is known that not everyone agrees politically, and this is a natural issue in every system, in every country, in every democracy. However, in every democracy, it is also natural that parliamentary elections decide where government policy is headed. We won these elections in 2015, we won them in 2019. We have a social mandate, which means we have a right and a duty to pursue the policy that people who support us want. These people have decided that this is what the Polish Sejm is going to look like and this is what the Polish government is going to look like. I don't quite know what the difference in the definition of democracy would be because the senator said we have different definitions. I think that democracy is, however, defined in a very clear way. This is power. the majority while respecting the rights of minorities, but it is the majority that decides what politics looks like. If the democratic sentence is in some time such that the government, the Sejm or the Senate should change, then this democratic sentence will be handed down by the only entity entitled to deliver this judgment, i.e. by the sovereign, by the Polish people. It is in the interests of the Polish people that we conduct this policy. [[It's the law.]] I agree, Mr. Senator, it's the law. And what she looks like... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask you to refrain from comments.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I know this is difficult, but please.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But what the senator said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I fully agree with that. I fully agree with that. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please...]] The senator said... Of course it's the law. And what is the law is decided by the sovereign, because that is the Polish constitution. [[Applause]] And now the question is, does Poland gain... I'm going, point by point, to another of those six questions you asked Senator Tyszkiewicz. Is Poland gaining on the common market? Of course we do, we're very clear on that. That is why we are so keen to maintain the common market, to remove barriers, to ensure that directives in the European Union are moving towards liberalisation rather than protectionism. Unfortunately, we often clash with populist and anti-European views of politicians of parts of countries to the west of us who say: no, we need to introduce rules that protect industry or... E.g. We've had this lately about the truck drivers... Because there is too strong, too dynamic competition from the countries of Central Europe, from these more dynamic, faster developing countries. And I am also pleased that we had a pretty good agreement in the European Parliament, that despite the various disputes regarding the content of these provisions, the Polish MEPs mostly fought for it. And this fight will continue not only with regard to transport or the anti-mobility directive, but also with other issues, e.g. the Services Directive or the Digital Directives, we will try to make the market more liberal, because Poland also makes money. We're just reminding you, and that's the truth that needs reminders. Also thanks to our scientific institutions... The Polish Economic Institute issued a phenomenal report showing, for example, how much they earn on the common market of the Netherlands or France or Germany. This is also passed on by our diplomats, this knowledge is constantly passed on, we drain it into this difficult media circulation in other countries, where this perspective is often different and, as I said, populist and anti-EU, directed only on protectionism. But this is a process and we will continue to participate in this process, I think with increasing success. Is the alliance with Hungary beneficial for Poland? Definitely an alliance with Hungary is beneficial for Poland, as is an alliance with any other country with which Poland cooperates. You asked me to indicate a list of countries with which Poland cooperates. In fact, I could name all the countries of the European Union, because we agree with each country in some area and in some disagreement. Even with you... Often they were reminded of various kinds of disputes between Poland and France. Remember the thesis in this room, too. In general France was sometimes portrayed as an opponent of Poland, of course French politicians were very much throwing themselves into this. And yet, on an absolutely strategic issue, on the European Union budget, also on agricultural policy, we have a common interest and this common interest we managed to fight for a very good budget, also for Polish agriculture. Because it's just a business game. If we agree on individual business, then we do this business together. This is a responsible foreign policy. You asked the senator about Poland's debt. This is not a strictly foreign policy issue, but of course I know exactly what the budgetary situation is like, and I know exactly what public debt looks like in other countries of the European Union. Poland is really not a leading country in this area, we really have an excellent position of public finances compared to the situation of some countries in southern Europe. But, to tell you the truth, in what economists are writing today, And I think that Mr. Senator as a man who, at least according to his own declarations, tries to have an open mind, also on economic views, not necessarily orthodox liberal ones, he sees this. Today, philosophy is changing in the economic paradigm. For many years, since the crisis in 2008, 2009 but after the pandemic, more and more economists have said: this is the moment for more activity of the state, for more activity of investments financed from public budgets, for this stimulus package. Because otherwise, unfortunately, our economy could get stuck. This is the art of finding some balance, some balance. There are no perfect systems. We do not want to lead, no one wants to lead to a repetition of the system of centrally controlled and planned economy, it would be absurd, but at the same time introduce a system where there are no regulations and where there is an absolute free American woman, as it was once said, without any supervisory institutions, with the possibility of developing monopolies, with the possibility of consumers being exploited by producers, by sellers, of treating them unfairly, that is absolutely unacceptable. Debt issues... Of course, in the pandemic we have this kind of situation in all countries of Europe, Poland here is absolutely not different from the EU standard, and I think that even with indicators, we have nothing to be ashamed of, we are one of the least affected countries, also thanks to very effective government stimulation measures immediately after the outbreak of the pandemic. The next question was the question of the arrest request for flight controllers in Smolensk. I agree with the fact that this request had to be submitted, I think it could have been submitted even earlier, but this is absolutely not the end of the case, because we consistently believe that this case has to be resolved, and Polish diplomacy will support these actions. Only that, as I said before, unfortunately Russia is a partner with whom this cooperation is very difficult, so, frankly, the hope that something groundbreaking will happen in this matter, without a fundamental change in Russia's approach to international policy is small. Because without a fundamental change of philosophy in the Kremlin, without a fundamental reorientation of priorities in Russian politics... Today, these priorities focus primarily on creating external enemies, putting themselves in opposition to the West. However, if the European Union, the United States, consistently exerts pressure on Russia and all of this matters, economic issues are absolutely fundamental if we are consistent on this issue, this consequence will be successful. Thank you very much for the last word, for this good word on the policy towards Belarus. We are trying to continue this policy and I am also looking forward to working together here with the Senator and the other Senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u86	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here on the right... There's only a wall to the right, so it's also symbolic. [[Voice from the room: Window, window.]] Now I'm serious. Minister, if foreign policy is to be, I would call it, calculated and continuous, and it should be so, it should also be effective. Question: what's more important? If it is ineffective, some methods should be changed. And now it's concrete. Poland's relations with Ukraine are great, of course, but here in this room yesterday we learned It did not fall out of my mouth, but out of the mouth of the person who is entitled to it, that we still cannot exhume our victims of genocide in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska. It's a basic issue. We allow... that's an understatement, even helping exhume the aggressors who invaded us, e.g. German soldiers, we are simply acting in accordance with the principles of Western civilization, and here we do not have such rights. Don't you think that this method could be partially translated into assertiveness when it comes to relations with Ukraine? The second point, namely relations with the Federal Republic of Germany. There's art. 20 Treaty on friendship, cooperation, etc., you know, and there is a concept of members of the German minority in the Republic of Poland, but the concept of a Polish minority in the Federal Republic of Germany does not exist. This is a clear asymmetry, and in international relations it is rather the principle of reciprocity, that at least the wordings and, above all, the rights are comparable. But that is why, not only in favour of this, it is simply the lack of respect for the rights of minorities, which this treaty imposes at least in the verbal layer. Not only is the Polish minority not a minority in Germany in terms of international law, Germany does not recognise it, for example. on the Convention on National Minorities, this is still being treated much worse. And in 2005, we adopted... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you to proceed to the question...]] I'm getting to the conclusion. If you hadn't interrupted, it would have been quicker. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: For the question.]] So in 2005, we adopted... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It's been five minutes since you asked.]] ...the National and Ethnic Minorities and the Regional Language Act. In short, we will show how national minorities should be treated, i.e. carrots in a way, and of course other countries will comply with these standards. However, 15 years have passed and have not adapted to anything, little of it, still, are still maintained the effects of Goering's decree in terms of German internal law. Minister, maybe it's time to stop this carrot. There are other methods. It's simple. Are you in favour of this... It's not in the National Minorities Act. In any case, national minorities have a unique privilege with regard to the electoral system and do not have to exceed the 5% threshold. and only the German minority benefits from this privilege. Maybe it's time to take those privileges back. As citizens are to be equal, they should be equal, and they should be equal. How do you feel about that? It's two specific questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I completely agree that the current situation, whether in the context of the actions of the Ukrainian authorities and the lack of consent to exhumation, whether in the context of the treatment of the Polish minority in Germany, is a situation that needs to be improved and decisively. As far as the Ukrainian issue is concerned, I can only say that now, during the President's visit, this issue will certainly be raised as one of the absolute priorities. One of the main objectives of this visit is to finally solve this problem. Besides, that's not the only problem. There are much more difficult issues in relations with Ukraine, especially as regards the historical sphere. This isn't just about permission for exhumation, we're well aware of that. On the one hand, sometimes we would like to react harshly, so purely in human terms, but on the other hand, because of the strategic goals, we try to maintain some kind of diplomatic abstinence. I realize that at times this may be considered too small a determination, but this is all part of a process. Similarly, the issue of the Polish minority is an element of relations with Germany. The second, equally important element is, let's say, such a package The issue of the German State's relationship to the past, to the settlements concerning the Second World War, to commemorate the Polish victims, and also to the issue of compensation. There is nothing to be fooled by the fact that this topic has been closed because it has not been closed, as we will be consistently reminded of. Of course, we can use such a tool that... I think that this would be the farthest step, and our goal is not to worsen the living conditions of the German minority in Poland, but to improve the living conditions of the Polish minority in Germany. That's what we're trying to do. I agree that sometimes these effects should take place more quickly, but this is also the result of many years of delays. Today we try to make up for these delays.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u89	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, this item is entitled "Information by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the state of Polish diplomacy," but from these statements by the Minister and from the direction in which the discussion is going, it appears that this scope has expanded a bit. Well, we're talking about foreign policy at all. Therefore, I have the following question: what is the position of the Polish Government towards the latest proposal of the German Presidency, the proposal to create a new mechanism or to refine an existing mechanism... We can discuss which wording would be more precise, but the point is to link EU funds with the so-called. The rule of law. [[He was talking about it...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Dear Sir, please do not interrupt the senator.]] Well, there's a discussion going on. A new proposal from the German Presidency has emerged in this respect, which I firmly believe is missing the Treaty principles and mechanisms that the European Union can apply to the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u91	Our opinion is that this proposal constitutes an circumvention of the Treaties. And this is not just our view, the view of the government or other politicians who speak about it. This is the result of a legal opinion drawn up by the legal services of the Council of the European Union. In 2018, an opinion was created which shows very clearly that mechanisms which would be based on circumvention of the provisions of the Treaties of the European Union would simply constitute an infringement of the law and would be incompatible with the rule of law. So we would actually be dealing with a curiosity situation, because in order to fight for the rule of law or so-called. The rule of law... Well, like I said, that's actually an excuse. This argument is not a real violation of the rule of law, it is a pretext to obtain a better financial effect. Under this pretext, there would be an infringement of the rule of law of the Union, a breach of European treaties. We are very clear: we are in favour of EU money being spent in a reliable way, in a way that is consistent with their destiny, so that they are not embezzled, so that there is no such situation that someone is setting up some fictitious companies or other fictitious entities and is embezzling European subsidies. In this respect, Poland is one of the more effective countries in the fight against this kind of fraud. We are very much in favour of this mechanism of management and control being more effective, but it must be based on criteria that are pre-defined, which are known at the very beginning and not on the free, arbitrary decisions of this or another body, taking into account the opinion of this or another international organisation. This is absolutely unimaginable. No such open directory shall be entered in any legal system. This is simply an excuse to give the European Commission In fact, not so much the Commission as the individual Commissioners It's a huge power. This is an excuse to create a tool that can turn against any country that, for various reasons, does not want to agree to a certain direction of EU policy. I don't think it's just... If such a tool were introduced, it could happen not only to Poland, not only to Hungary, but also for example. the countries of the south of Europe, which, as we know very well, are being strongly criticised by the countries of Northern Europe for alleged mismanagement of their budgets. And it's the danger that we make others aware. And that is why I think that this kind of mechanism will not happen, that this will not happen, because simply because the essential majority of the European Union will not agree to this, will not be achieved... this German solution will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u92	Thank you. Senator Jackowski would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u93	Yes, sir. Minister, I would like to, as you have declared here... Nevertheless, knowing German diplomacy and the effectiveness of German lobbying within the European Union, it can be expected that this mechanism will be attempted on the basis of a qualified majority. And this could work. And then to put all the Member States ahead of the facts. And what is the idea of the Polish government here, besides what you mentioned, that these countries of the south or some other countries... I mean to build an effective alliance so that this kind of mechanism is not introduced. Because as it will once be introduced, even if it is not in the light of legal interpretation, it has a treaty sanction, even if we say so or someone else will say so, it will become a fact, it will become a pretext. So I think this is a crucial moment for the Union to take action that... for the European Union's bodies or EU institutions to act on the basis of law rather than such, I would say, politicalisation of the situation. And now the question is: what is the idea of the Polish government to neutralize this phenomenon that is dangerous for the future of the whole European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u94	I agree that German diplomacy can be very effective. It can also be very effective. Dutch diplomacy. Because there is nothing to be deceived, it can be said very openly, Dutch politicians say very openly that their goal is to create a mechanism that will block payments not only for Poland but also for the countries of the South. And this diplomacy is effective. But Polish diplomacy is also effective. And we showed this at the summit in July when a powerful budget and reconstruction fund were negotiated, contrary to the intentions of Dutch diplomacy and several other countries that tried to block it. Because we were able to create a very large alliance of countries that just thought it was in their interest to have that budget. And we're making them aware of this business today too. However, of course, I do not want to give too much detail about negotiating tactics, because it also requires some confidentiality, some trust, this is a very sensitive process. But I'm sure I can say one thing: in the end, it's possible... After all, all this must be accepted by national parliaments. And already, for example. The Hungarians have announced that if the agreement is unacceptable to them, they will not ratify it. I think that everyone cares that if there is a situation where an agreement is unacceptable to national parliaments This applies to the parliament in Hungary and the parliament in Poland and the parliament in the Netherlands. Then there will be no agreement. This is a powerful threat to the future of the European Union. The lack of this recovery fund is a threat to a massive economic crisis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u95	Please, Senator Jackowski is asking questions again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u96	Yes, yes, thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to know here, as there have been disagreements about just... You yourself recalled July and that EU summit on which you entered... And here are 2 theories about whether this is a soft link between these measures and the so-called. The rule of law or hard. There have been various statements from the president, Ms von der Leyen, and other important politicians or officials of the European Union. And there was another interpretation of these entries here, in Poland or in some other Member States of the European Union. And what did it really look like? How should we read the records that have been recorded in the conclusions of this summit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u97	The conclusions make it very clear that the issue of the shape of this mechanism must return to the European Council. The European Council shall take its decisions unanimously, consensually. What does that mean? This means that any decision on this matter will have to go through the European Council. Tomorrow the European Council will begin, and this will certainly be discussed. What will be the result? We'll see. Of course, they're big, but I'm optimistic because I can see how effective they are. Poland is able to produce results that are satisfactory for us at European Council meetings. This was the case in July this year, this was the case in 2018, when we changed the conclusions on migration policy in a positive way and the idea of forced relocation of refugees was rejected. This was also the case in 2019 when Poland and many other countries blocked the election of a candidate for the head of the European Commission, which simply did not suit us. We can be effective. I think in this case you can also look at it with optimism. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u98	Senator Richard Majer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will return to the thread that you have touched on Senator Czerwiński, to the relationship with our nearest neighbour, and it is very important, although from outside the European Union, i.e. Ukraine. On the one hand, this relationship is very important to us for reasons of strategy and our economy, because the citizens of Ukraine have a significant share in the Polish economy as workers. On the other hand, we still have problems concerning, let's say, stumbling about Ukrainian identity, which he spoke about, among others. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. This is because, however, Ukraine, looking for its identity, still stumbles over Polish stones, which are especially in western Ukraine. One such element is the Orląt Cemetery and the case of these lions. I know that the new presidency, the new opening for President Złenski gave Polish diplomacy hope that this matter would be settled. Tell me, is this issue raised on the agenda of President Duda's stay in Ukraine? The point is that we can organize the Orląt Cemetery more actively, act there and among others. Unveil these lions, because they've probably been clogged so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u100	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u101	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, This issue is also on the agenda, as in general historical issues, historical memory issues, historical policy in general, maintaining a certain sensitivity 'Cause that's the way it's supposed to be. In diplomatic relations, which is a problem. Some of the behaviour of the Ukrainian authorities, especially some of the local authorities... It'll all be lifted up. Unfortunately, we feel that we need to keep reminding ourselves of this all the time. A prerequisite for cooperation, reconciliation and friendship is the settlement of history. We are talking about this very clearly and it does not change in any way. I'm sure it'll be lifted up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u102	Mr. Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Now it's gonna be a harder question. I'm asking for a letter from 50 ambassadors, but not the contents of this letter. I wouldn't want you to judge her, any Pole can. I am referring to one of the signatories of this letter, actually one lady, namely the ambassador of the United States in Poland. I think she took the burden of publicising it because this letter is even on the official website of the embassy in Poland. But that's not the only aspect. Namely today in this House we will agree to ratify the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation signed in Warsaw on 15 August. We have a strategic partnership and unity of interests here in the middle of Europe. We care about that. Few of this, in Polish society there is a very high level of favor towards and towards the United States as a country, and to Americans as such. I think he's the biggest in Europe. I don't know for sure, but I think it is. Who cares about ruining it? 'Cause I can actually read a letter like that three ways. First of all, simply as a clear interference in Poland's internal affairs, as an interference in Poland's internal affairs. Perhaps it is also about the future presidential elections, not with us, in the United States. Most Poles living in the United States, most of Polonia are conservative. She voted for Law and Justice. A letter addressed here... maybe the ambassador simply wants to make the outcome of the Polonia vote for President Trump lower? Of course, it's maybe ridiculous, but the effects can be like that. And the third, and most importantly, who cares about such close strategic cooperation that the Americans are proposing to us and which we are willing to accept for the deterioration of our relationship? As I say, this letter is two or three days old, and the ratification agreement will be today. Of course, there are cases, but in grammar, not politics. The simple question is: why is this convergence of dates and why is the ambassador so committed to these actions which I think are counterproductive to what we want in this House to praise for the good of Poland and the United States?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u104	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u105	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The answer to this question, I think, is so difficult that basically this answer needs the American side most. I completely agree with the thesis that was put here by your senator, that such actions do not serve well Polish-American relations. We believe that this kind of activity in general of ambassadors of other countries who would thus critically judge the government of the host country, this is something that is a mistake, this is something that does not serve our two-sided relations, and which is not, from such a diplomatic point of view, the most handy thing to say very gently. However, we also believe that there should be some restraint in public assessments. We do not want to lead to any public argument or escalation of this dispute with diplomatic channels. I assure you that measures have already been taken and will continue. Because we are certainly not going to leave this kind of activity unanswered, because the diplomatic response is something that is simply appropriate in such situations. And are these actions motivated by issues of internal, American or foreign policy? I'm not going to answer that question, because it's a thing that I just don't have any knowledge about, and I suspect that even if I did, I wouldn't really be able to share it under these conditions without certain clauses. I think that here, first of all, our partners should consider whether this is really the case. Whoever he's serving. Because the senator asked who it was. I, to be honest, don't know who it is. I can identify a few potential people or entities who are happy about it, but I hope it wasn't motivated by any such actions. Let's just leave it at that moment. We're hoping it won't just happen again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u106	Thank you, Minister. Now, Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u107	Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki has repeatedly recently declared his readiness to adopt repressed Belarusians in Poland. There is also a wide wave of emigration to be reckoned with. This is not yet a phenomenon, but I understand that these declarations have been made on the assumption that we will be dealing with such a phenomenon with a great degree of probability. So I'd like to ask The more the government asks representatives of local governments to be prepared to adopt the Belarusians, what status the government is planning. Does the government assume that we will operate with standard refugee status or with more real access to a permanent residence card? What's the government doing in this case so these declarations don't stay on paper? The point is to be prepared for the phenomenon and for real help.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u108	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Here action has already been taken and implemented. We have taken this into account with the assumption that every way that is potentially beneficial to people of different categories, whether it is people who want to move to Poland to provide work here, to conduct business activity here, whether it is people who for humanitarian reasons have a need to move to Poland, or those who are staying here temporarily, even in order to take advantage of the possibility of treatment or rehabilitation, staying permanently, because they can be subjected to political repression... All these methods are necessary and it is necessary to create an appropriate legal framework. To this end, new procedures have been developed and, in principle, facilitations have been introduced in existing procedures, in access to humanitarian visas, in access to workers' visas or to visas for business purposes. We have abolished some of the restrictions that were introduced a few months ago in relation to the pandemic, with the assumption that in this situation priority must be placed in the first place, of course, while maintaining health safety, epidemiological safety. All these persons shall be subject to appropriate procedures, whether testing or quarantine, if necessary. We're really doing this... I do not remember exactly what the statistics are today, but I can say that the number of people who have come to Poland from Belarus since the beginning of the current crisis, since 9 August, if I remember correctly, is approaching or even exceeding 30,000. These are people who use the Polish Charter A lot of people have that kind of authority. They are people who enter Poland on this basis, they are people on humanitarian visas, on workers' visas, on visas which entitle them to conduct business activity. For this latter purpose, we have also introduced a programme of business incentives, especially for highly qualified IT specialists, which in Belarus was strong, but also from other sectors. The Polish programme. Business Harbour is supposed to encourage Belarusian specialists to be suppressed under the political regime if they believe that their business, their entrepreneurship in Belarus, cannot grow well... The aim is to create such conditions for them in Poland so that they can live and develop in a decent way and, by the way, join the growth of the Polish economy, to strengthen Poland, so that we can integrate on such an inter-human level. To tell you the truth, this is also the goal that we have in each of these modes in each of these procedures. The actions are being carried out all the time. We're monitoring the situation, looking at the numbers. Unfortunately, it must be made very clear that the situation is likely to be unstable for a long time. This is a process that will probably be long-term, this increased interest will be large, which will also make us continue our activities, and, if necessary, as we observe where all this is going, perhaps we will modify them. I think I can say that as a matter of fact. As for the details... If the senators are interested in details of specific modes, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may provide such information in writing, e.g. on statistics, on the specific conditions to be met, on what each procedure looks like. This is available on our websites, but, of course, in the form of written information we can make it available to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u109	Thank you, Minister. You ask Senator Krzysztof Brejza a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u110	Thank you very much. Minister, I will return to the topic of internationalising the Smolensk investigation and I will be grateful for the concrete answers. I understand that today you have responded to the complaint to the Court of The Hague that you have not filed this complaint, and that your intention is to continue to act on the basis of allies. You're gonna give up on this complaint, right? That's the first question. And the other. Here, too, I will be grateful for your specific answer. In March, I received a response from you to the intervention that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not appear in recent years to the governments of other countries on the delegation of a representative of the committee or on the creation of a joint international commission to investigate the Smolensk disaster. Question: Has anything changed since March 2020? You were talking about taking action on the basis of allies. If so, please tell me, what actions have you taken in recent months, to the government of what country, with what effect, and when did you address it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u111	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u112	Mr. Senator, I've actually answered that question. As for the complaint, as I said, this is one of the elements that is being considered. The negative decision was not absolutely taken, as the senator suggested. As regards concrete actions The dates, the countries to which we have addressed in this respect, the diplomatic talks, to the extent that we can disclose this, we will be happy to supplement this information in writing. I also remember your questions, Mr. Senator, in context, for example. diplomatic notes. I would not want to make a mistake here and point out the wrong date or wrong country, to which we have asked various questions in this matter. Therefore, I will allow myself and in this regard to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u113	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question, but first of all, it's a diagnosis, an assessment of the state of our diplomacy, our foreign policy. I judge her as positively as possible. I thank the Minister for the information he has provided. I am glad that the Minister spoke so much about Polish national interests, about taking care of Polish national interests. For many countries, as we can see, we are now becoming not a patent, but a partner. Minister, among the 3 priorities of Polish foreign policy you listed Poland's strong position in the region. A lot was said about Poland's activities within the Visegrad Group, within the Tri-marriage countries. The opposition often claims that we neglect our relationship within the Weimar Triangle. Could you tell us more about our cooperation here over the last five years within the Weimar Triangle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u115	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Here's the situation. Actions to reactivate with much more dynamic work of the Weimar Triangle mainly at this highest political level... Because at the working level these contacts are very regular, for a long time we have consulted on those issues which are covered by international policy under the Weimar Triangle, so that these consultations take place. At the beginning of this year, we took the initiative to bring back work at the highest level. The result was the visit of the French President Emmanuel Macron along with the foreign minister Yves Le Drian in Warsaw. Minister and Minister Chaputowicz also signed a memorandum on this matter, which was intended, among others. convening the summit of the Weimar Triangle in 2020 It was February 2020. As we know, then the international situation has changed so much that the organisation of any such events has become much more difficult. That's where the work shifted a little bit. They will certainly continue at this working level in 2-sided contacts. We return to this and we will probably soon be able to announce a plan for further action. We believe that cooperation within the Weimar Triangle is extremely important primarily in the EU. The aim is to balance the influence of individual countries in the European Union. This presence of Poland as one of the largest countries of the European Union, and the largest in this part of Europe, the largest country in this region, is absolutely necessary. And the presence of Poland in these formats depends also on the French, and the Germans. They want Poland to be more present there for various reasons. We will certainly use this presence for good, for the sake of Polish interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u117	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a quick question. Disturbing the public... There is information about the conflict that is taking place in Karabaku Mountain. What is the Polish government's attitude towards this conflict? At the moment, its scale is not large, but the potential turbulence that may arise from it will be important, among others. for our energy security. From this point of view... What is your position here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u119	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u120	Thank you very much. This is a question that unfortunately cannot be answered as well as you would like. The truth is that this conflict has been going on there for many years and the impact of the international community on which direction it is developing is unfortunately relatively small. All this time, this conflict is going down, we had a case of exacerbation a few months ago, and today it exploded with much more force. All we're counting on is... Not only, we are primarily hoping that the parties will not cause further escalation. We exert pressure, talk to the Armenian side, and the Azerbaijani side... It must be said clearly that here Poland will not declare itself either on one side or on the other, against one or the other country. Nor is it our role in this conflict to resolve this dispute. This is a question of the decisions of those two countries which should peacefully, based on dialogue, resolve this conflict. What we will certainly do, together with our partners from the European Union, will also put pressure on other countries who are trying to engage in this conflict in an unauthorised way so that they do not do so, so that they refrain from exerting pressure, from exerting such pressures, from taking such measures that can only strengthen this escalation. Because the objective is to stabilise and the aim is to bring about a situation in which in this region It is very important, strategically important for the whole of Europe, because it is about energy security not only for Poland but also for the whole of Europe, because it is a powerful source of raw materials It will come to an agreement so that this long-term conflict can end peacefully.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u121	Thank you, Minister. I can't see any more questions. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Paweł Jabłoński, has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Brejza. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! We have invited you here for a completely different reason, namely because we are concerned about the state of Polish diplomacy in this House, like our constituents. And that's what this meeting was supposed to be about. The directions of foreign policy of the Republic of Poland are discussed once a year, in the spring, but in the Sejm. So thank you very much for giving us these directions also in the Senate. This is a good opportunity to talk about it. But I very much regret the fact that on this main topic You didn't even stutter. And yet the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is just a pitiful reflection of what the Foreign Office has been for many years. You neutered the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and made him the Ministry of Foreign Relations. But maybe in a minute. Because of the directions you've been talking about, I'm going to start with the main issues that you've come up with. Firstly, your fundamental mistake in foreign policy is that you are blurring the boundaries between foreign policy and internal policy. Your speech today is the best example of what has been happening for 5 years in Polish foreign policy. You cultivate it for internal use rather than external use. You build concepts, you present them, you don't succeed abroad, but you try to effectively influence the awareness of our citizens and try to show that you are abroad other than really achieving goals that you don't actually achieve, that you're able to do when you're not able and worst of all. This is the worst, I note that you are strengthening the Polish position abroad, while in fact you have weakened it. Poland is now weaker in the world than it was before, a few or several years ago. Our position in the world has been shaken by the rule of law and justice. We are weak and very often alone. I don't use a strong term here and I'm not saying that we're always alone, no, but I'm saying that we're very often alone. And this is such a curse of Poland, the historical curse of Poland, which makes us think about how it should be changed. You have a chance, you have a chance to change Polish foreign policy, to make it more efficient and to get Poland out of this loneliness, loneliness among many of our partners and allies, not all of them. Where she's in. Maintaining a strong alliance between Poland and the United States in the field of security is a cardinal matter. We agree here, and there is no doubt about it. But Polish-American relations should also be more partnered, because Americans, a proud nation, a nation of traders, entrepreneurs, value only those who are proud of their own achievements and are worthy partners in two-sided relationships. This was taught by my master Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, an expert of the American soul as rarely as anyone, repeatedly repeated this. Zbigniew Brzeziński, who knows America better than any of our experts. Once again, our policy towards the United States should be more partnered. But, of course, relations with the United States must be a priority for our security policy, and there is no doubt about that. In a moment we will talk about the agreement on enhanced defence cooperation between Poland and the United States and we will probably talk about the fact that it is important and even very important from the point of view of the security interest of Poland, that every American soldier's shoe on Polish soil, every American equipment in Poland strengthens our national security, only that each shoe and every equipment must be placed in Poland in partnership. Secondly, you were talking about NATO, about the fact that NATO has been able to re-orient itself to a more defensive alliance in recent years. Well, I would like to remind you that this process has been going on, Minister, since 2008. It was after President Putin's famous speech at the Bucharest Summit in April 2008, after the invasion of Georgia that we began to strongly convince allies that joint defence and intimidation are the most important pillar of the North Atlantic Pact that NATO must return to its original functions. As you may remember, but somehow you forgot here, in the strategic concept adopted 2 years later in Lisbon, thanks to Polish diplomacy, 3 anchors were introduced to strengthen this collective defence and this deterrent. I am referring to the revision of contingency plans, I am talking about joint exercises and joint training, and finally I am talking about cooperation in the field of strengthening defence, something in doctrine called visible assurance. These 3 cases have been introduced into the strategic concept of the still present, still present, by no one undisputed by the Polish diplomacy and since November 2010 the strategic concept has been in force. And then there were my negotiations on contingency plans, which ended in 2010 and resulted in an update of those plans, so that Poland could count on the "no," although this is not the right form to talk about the details of NATO support, NATO countries in the event of aggression. And there were activities of Sikorski in the North Atlantic Council, which led to the fact that the Alliance was much more involved in exercises and training in Poland. There was also a speech by President Komorowski to apply art for the fourth time in NATO history. 4th Washington Treaty. Well, Minister, since for the fourth time in NATO's history and for the first time in Central Europe, NATO applies its art. 4 about the consultation and leads to an unprecedented strengthening of its presence in Central Europe, especially in Poland, this is a success and it would be worth mentioning because the security policy did not start in 2015, but lasted and was run by many different teams, including your predecessors. The security policy against access to power of the PiS was based on the 3 pillars of the security policy: the external dimension of the security policy In the United States, the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. This table on three legs was more stable than the one standing on 2. You broke his third leg. You have led to the fact that Poland's position in the European Union is marginal today. Thus, Poland's participation in various initiatives of security and defence policy is also marginal. Where is this Poland that has offered its partners from the European Union to strengthen the security and defence dimension? Where are the other weimar letters that have given perspective for the future, what Europe's capabilities are to look like when it comes to security and defence. How many letters have you prepared? How many proposals have you made to your allies, your partners, to convince them to strengthen this dimension? None, I'm afraid. You mythologize, you create a myth of the Visegrad Group. The Visegrad Group, Minister, has always been a means to an end, not an end in itself. Visegrad Group is the famous 27:1 during the vote on the second term of Donald Tusk. That's what you call an alliance in many cases. The Visegrad Group is only a tool for Poland to achieve better goals in the North Atlantic Alliance, especially in the European Union, and not in itself. You broke the sides of the Weimar Triangle, and that's what you've been doing for four years. The fact that in February 2020 you remembered the Weimar Triangle will not rebuild this cooperation, which was the driving force, the engine of our position, first Poland's accession to the European Union and earlier NATO, and which later stabilized our strong position in the European Union. As far as Eastern policy is concerned, at some point you broke the Polish-Ukrainian partnership, which was the dogma of Polish Eastern policy and which has been an absolute priority for the Polish elite since Giedroyc and Mieroszewski. Of course in historical politics both sides are responsible... for creating problems: and the Polish side, and the Ukrainian side... [[Mr. Senator...]] Just one more sentence. Of course, these problems have a bearing on today and the future. But there has never been such a weak relationship between Warsaw and Kiev since 1992, which is at the moment. [[Thank you...]] To put an end to this topic, I say this: I am pleased that you are catching up in Belarusian matters and that Prime Minister Morawiecki has also introduced the opposition into his government's policy, because it is a priority for our Eastern policy right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka from the room... Oh, there he is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We listened to information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the state of Polish diplomacy. I wonder if the Minister certainly presented information about Polish diplomacy, or whether he accidentally mistaken the country. Ministers, Poles are a wise society and see how low Poland's position outside the country is, see what problems Polish diplomacy is facing and how ineffective it is, see that Polish diplomacy does not participate in any major international projects. If we could evaluate projects carried out on behalf of another country in terms of success, such projects are carried out on behalf of Washington. But can participation in projects carried out on behalf of another country be considered a success? In a moment we will be discussing the ratification of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Poland and the government of the United States of America on strengthening defence cooperation, in which the Polish government resigned from Polish jurisdiction towards Polish soldiers... [[American.]] American soldiers, thank you, I'm sorry. For our security, the presence of American troops is absolutely necessary, but no European government would allow it to give up its jurisdiction. You're talking about success, and the examples are the Visegrad Group, the Intersea. Both projects show a lack of coherence and relevance in the European Union. The isolation of Hungary and Poland in the European Union is clear, and examples of the ineffectiveness of Polish diplomacy policy can be multiplied. Until 5 years ago Polish diplomats or Polish politicians were listening to Polish initiatives. The Minister said that before the so-called. Poland did not cause any problems in Europe. Of course not. Minister, Polish diplomacy did not waste time on international conflicts at the time. Polish diplomacy was busy initiating coherent projects and partner cooperation during their implementation. Poland was then one of the leaders of Europe, not standing in the corner as it is today. In Europe, Poles walked with their heads raised, and to the question where did you come from??, they were proud to answer the Polish people and met with admiration and admiration of the questioner. What it looks like today, we all know, we see it, driving around the world. Today we have the worst relationship with Russia and Germany in more than half a century. Eastern policy of Polish diplomacy towards Russia and Ukraine limps like after a great fall. Even good initiatives related to the situation in Belarus are adopted in Europe with a huge reserve, without the possibility of receiving support from the whole of the European Union. Why? Because over the last 5 years, Polish diplomacy has lost what is most valuable to diplomacy. For 5 years Poland has lost its position in the European Union, ba!, even in the world. Just open newspapers in Poland or anywhere in Europe. Another example is the fall of the Weimar Triangle, cooperation with France and Germany, the main creators of European policy. Rachitic attempts to reactivate cooperation failed. The Minister said by Cortipinus. Minister, we all see and know... prime ministers of all countries are traveling around the world to do business and to cooperate with each other, they don't mind the coronavirus. The Minister said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs directs foreign policy. Not at all, Minister. The instrumentarium was destroyed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs destroyed HR policy. She is not led on Szucha, but on Nowogrodzka, in the interest of the party, not in Polish foreign policy. The political nominations of diplomats and the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is without diplomats in the rank of Minister or Deputy Minister are embarrassing. The various areas of action were torn apart in conflict with the constitution: Eastern, Polish and European policies are dealt with by the President of the Council of Ministers, security and transatlantic policies were transferred to the Presidential Palace. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as Senator Klich said, has only become a travel agency for the Minister. I last but not least: how are Polish citizens treated abroad? An example from Strasbourg. Strasbourg, a city in which many Poles live, live, work for almost 1/3 of the year, for about 100 days a year, Polish parliamentarians, Polish politicians, where the European Parliament and the Council of Europe are located. In this Strasbourg there is a Polish delegation to the Council of Europe, where there is no place for a consul. Consul arrives from Paris twice a month for one day. On that day the desk and chairs are displayed in the hallway, right at the entrance to the representative office. Polish citizens who have to deal with their consular affairs are so welcomed. Is that what getting out of your knees looks like? Is this how respect for Polish citizens looks? Is this the respect for employees employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Is this the way to respect labour law? Can this state of affairs be considered good for Polish diplomacy? Perhaps for 10 million Poles yes, but not for the whole of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u125	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u126	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unlike my predecessors, I would like to thank the Minister for his presence at this meeting today, as well as for the opportunity to discuss openly the issues raised by the senators. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I would also like to express my conviction that... Well, here were the critical voices of Polish diplomats, Polish diplomacy. I do not work on the Foreign Affairs Committee in this term, but I have some knowledge of the functioning of our diplomatic service. I would like to express my gratitude from this place, from this tribune, to many Polish diplomats who, sometimes working in difficult conditions resulting from various objective reasons, carry out their tasks in the diplomatic service with great commitment. I think that if I hadn't said that, I would have hurt hundreds of Polish diplomats who are scattered through different positions in various consular, diplomatic or ambassador offices and are simply doing their job every day. Of course, it is always possible to discuss foreign policy orientations, evaluation of foreign policy, etc. It is understandable that the opposition criticizes the rulers Well, I'd be surprised if it wasn't. However, I believe that there is still consensus in this House as regards the fundamental directions of the foreign policy of the Polish state. We may have different accents, but I don't think there are any significant differences here. Well, I recall Senator Klich, President Klich, who said that our strategic partner is the United States. What's the deal between us, right? It is possible to discuss whether the current Polish-American relations are optimal, they can be defined differently, but in general the assessment is that they are very good, friendly, close relationships. What are the principles of this dialogue? Well, here we can argue. I don't take part in these conversations, so I don't talk about it. From this point of view, I should not speak on this matter. As far as Eastern policy is concerned, there is basically consensus here, at least at a declarative level. Well, the latest events in Belarus have shown this. There were words here that indicate that in the Polish political elites there is a community of views on the fundamental direction of this policy as to the vision of where we are going. High Izbo, I asked specific questions. Minister, I did this because today the European Commission's report on the rule of law has been announced. In this report, which seems to have 2 000 pages and many annexes, 25 pages are devoted to Poland. Well, this assessment of the rule of law from the point of view of the European Commission is, to say the least, critical of Poland. I also asked the Minister about issues relating to the German Presidency. Indeed, the German Presidency has proposed a concept on how to implement the rule of law mechanism with budget allocation, and this perspective for 2021/2027. And we know that this applies not only to this 1 trillion euro, about 1 trillion euro under these measures, but also to the reconstruction fund, which so far seems to be at a level of 750 billion euro. So you can say that there are almost 2 trillion euros in the pot, which... [[Billions.]] 2 trillion, almost 2 trillion euros, which will simply be distributed on the basis set out in the negotiations we are facing. Nevertheless, what concerns me in the German Presidency is, High Izbo, a certain modification of this project. It is true that the German Presidency, as if it were mitigating the version that the European Parliament would see, is mitigating the rules for determining when a breach of the rule of law has occurred and who is to judge by which procedures. On the other hand, however, this mechanism remains and goes a little beyond what the Minister has just said in this House: everything is decided by the European Council. I have checked and, I understand, in this mechanism proposed by the German Presidency Of course, it is not yet in force, but it is currently being discussed among the ambassadors, and there is a principle that in general decisions would be taken by qualified majority at the European Council. Not in consensus, not in qualified majority, according to procedures that we know well. Well, that creates some new room for discussion. Because there will be countries that the Minister has mentioned, which, for various reasons, will not agree to do so. But the German Presidency is counting on a qualified majority for this solution. It's somehow convincing with this report, which coincidentally or accidentally coincided in time... because at this moment, today was announced. And here, I believe, we are dealing with a very crucial moment. And this is actually a test, so I take it, for our subjectivity within the European Union: whether the Polish diplomacy, the Polish state will be able to defend this vision of the principles of cooperation and the distribution of EU funds, which, if you literally read into the treaties and all the documents of international law that apply to us as members of the European Union, will be applied, whether there will be an overinterpretation or reinterpretation of these rules and the extension of the power of the Commission or, as the Minister mentioned, the individual Commissioners within the European Union. It is a mechanism so dangerous that it can be applied under the pretext of the rule of law, and in a moment under another pretext: migration policy or other areas or even worldview issues. 'Cause we also see this kind of rehearsal, for example. introduce uniform rules on the killing of unborn children or on other worldview issues throughout the European Union, without taking into account that Member States may take sovereign decisions in matters of world view, as they consider appropriate. That's why it's really a crucial moment. We, here in Poland, are now informed about reconstruction of the government, about COVID and other topics, those daily problems that occupy the public's attention. However, it is actually a key issue not only for Poland, but for the future of the European Union at all. All the more so since the problems facing the European Union, including in the context of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic or accelerated by the pandemic of Coronavirus, this is in principle a journey, unfortunately, in an unpredictable economic future. What will be the social, political, but above all economic impact of the European project? Here, the responsibility of the Member States and the light diplomacy of individual Member States, as well as Poland, will depend much on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u127	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What a pity that PiS ministers, including foreign affairs, only tell the truth when they're fired. Minister Chaputowicz, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the PiS for years, only after he left the government, admitted that at the moment there was no one left in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who had anything to do with diplomacy before this work. It's a symbol. This is a symbol of the fall of not only Polish diplomacy. This is a symbol of the fall of foreign policy of the country, understood as fighting abroad, foreign efforts to strengthen the country and the economy. Indeed, including the new Foreign Minister, Mr Rauem, there is no longer anyone among the ministers who would know about this job. Nevertheless, I personally hoped that the new Foreign Minister would appear in front of the High Chamber, because always such a conversation at the start of the mission opens up potentially some hope that things will turn out differently than in the last five years, which is different than wrong. Unfortunately, he sent his deputy, whose entire experience in foreign affairs and diplomacy comes down to 10 months as Undersecretary of State at the Ministry. We haven't heard much about what we asked for, the state of Polish diplomacy. And this condition is bad, this condition is bad not only because of the lack of competence in management, but also because they have been consistently rumbled for 5 years, but with significant acceleration in recent months, real professionals. Dozens of former ambassadors of the Republic of Poland, but also e.g. EU ambassadors in the diplomatic service of the Republic of Poland are gradually but effectively removed from the Ministry. There are such curiosities as the fact that the long-term ambassador of the Republic of Poland and the EU ambassador after returning to the country for weeks is not the object of any questions, no discussion, no dialogue on his experiences or how he could use his experience and skills for the Republic of Poland. Department directors, who are professionals, are converted into obedient former party assistants of the PiS notes and this process is moving further and further down. The fact that in the main diplomatic directions both in Europe and beyond we no longer have among ambassadors practically no experts, only nominates from Nowogrodzka, is known. Okay, okay, For at least 4 years, but this process is getting worse. What are the results? Here I can refer directly to what Deputy Minister Jabłoński was talking about, i.e. how the main objectives of Polish foreign policy are pursued. As for these purposes, although I will define them slightly differently, in fact there is agreement: the security of Poland, the alliance within NATO with the United States. Well, here's the question: is this alliance closer to a situation where the US ambassador signs and comments in a bite way on Twitter letters that clearly criticize the current authorities of the Republic? Is he stronger when under pressure the US government of the Republic is forced to negotiate with a third country at Mossad's headquarters its own law, idiotic, with which we agree, but sovereign law and its novel Was it stronger when things like this didn't happen? Another objective: a strong place in the European Union. Well, ladies and gentlemen, here are very simple, measurable indicators. Did France succeed in implementing the Posted Workers Directive as a European Union law in the course of eight years, in the years 2007 to 2015, or did it succeed in President Macron's two years in PiS? Of course it's now. Is the budget of the European Union recently negotiated for Poland higher or lower? It is lower by EUR 12 billion, about PLN 55 billion, while the total budget is not decreasing. These are real economic and financial losses resulting from the fact that this government's policy is amateur and ineffective. Finally, the key issue for our foreign policy, the next priority, i.e. the impact of Poland on the situation in the East. I, too, join those voices which welcome the change in the policy of the PiS government towards the Lukashenka regime. We had a story about setting up intimate red telephone lines between Minsk and Warsaw during Mr Morawiecki's visit, still as Deputy Prime Minister, with the Lukashenka regime. We had stories of a former marshal of this House, Mr. Karczewski, about a warm man, Mr. Łukaszence. Fortunately, the state has withdrawn and praised you for returning to the traditional, Polish-interested national path, such as to speak not only of business in the East, but also of democratic values. Well, the question is, what are the results? What are the results of the fact that you really want to do good things there? Well, lack of effectiveness. There's no efficacy. Mrs Cichanouska in the European Union presents the Prime Minister of Lithuania, not the Prime Minister of Poland. Lithuania is the most active in its support. These are meetings of the leader of the Belarusian opposition. The winner of the presidential election with President Macron and, in the coming days, Mrs Merkel are likely to have a European public opinion rather than a meeting with the Polish Prime Minister. Why? Because they have the power to act, and the meeting with the Polish Prime Minister does not have the power to do so. Finally, it's as symbolic as the first one I was talking about. For the first time in the history of the European Union this year, one country, unfortunately Poland, has not applied to the European External Action Service, i.e. EU diplomacy. Why? Because only professionals with many years of experience can go there, and the PiS government and the Ministry of PiS have decided not to support any such candidacy. Therefore, next year there will be no Pole accepted for EU diplomacy. This is the withdrawal of Poland from the main instrument, including the Polish foreign policy, which is European diplomacy. This is another proof that your goal is to crawl Polexit, that when party interests... Because you would be happy to report your party assistants to the European Union, but you can't report them. And if you're gonna report the professionals, you don't report them because they're professionals, and they're not yours. And that's proof that when your party interests conflict with national interests, you choose party interests. What's the effect? Poland is today the most lonely country in the European Union, with certainty in the international arena more alone than in 2015, its international position is weaker and therefore less secure. One of the prominent international publicists is finishing up, Mr. Marshal. He recently described that we are, in the eyes of an international opinion, some sort of Iranian Europe. I wouldn't go that far. What is right for the publicists is not right for politicians, especially with diplomatic experience, but will quote the words of Zbigniew Brzezinski a few years ago, an unrepentant, great Polish patriot who had a huge impact on the dismantling of the communist system, being high in the American authorities. PiS policy seeks to undermine the foundations of international respect for Poland And this is your tragic legacy for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Michael Sewerinski. From where? [[No, not on the spot. But there's another order, because first...]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[No, the senator's been here before.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Mr. Senator. And then Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u130	Mr. Marshal, it won't take long, but I'd like to make two polemic remarks. I would like to say that I am not surprised at the sharpness, the radicalism of some of the opposition speeches in this House, because that is the role of the opposition. And it's a good thing he plays that role. It is to criticize, flogging with the whip of criticism this government, including its policies, also foreign policy. Some good results can come from that. If someone is open to criticism, he can correct something about what he is doing. I hope that this is what these critical remarks serve and that this is the result. But in two cases, I'd like to be a polemist here. It has been said that the Visegrad Group is a myth. It happened to me as a vice-marshal to attend meetings of this group several times. True, there was no absolute unity and compatibility, there were different statements, but there have never been declarations of doubts about the purpose and purpose of the group. For me, however, this is not a myth, and I would like it to be made, in the context of this opinion that has been delivered here, to give such an opinion that it is not a myth. That it's an idea, a strategic concept... Not new, just like the Intersea isn't new. Who among you has access to older documents can read that this idea was also alive during the interwar period in Poland. This is a political idea, a regional cooperation which is primarily not foreign in the European Union and which serves this Union. This is not something to undermine the European Union, it is not a counterweight. This is rather a strengthening of the position of the countries which later came to the European Union and want to play a role in line with their interests and with the interests of Europe. So it's not a myth. My humble experience contradicts that view. The second thing I would like to say is whether we are alone or not. Because this has also been said many times in various forms. That we are alone, that we have destroyed the foundations of good Polish politics. I will surprise you and say this: I hope that we may be even more alone when we come to talk about fundamental issues when we come to talk about the values on which the European Union is to be built. As long as we rule and as far as most Poles are concerned about human life, the right to life, marriage, family, while this view dominates, we can be more and more alone here, because we believe that we defend the right position and true values. And as long as we want to be subjective, to be subjective in the European Union, in international policy, we will, of course, be inconvenient to all those who wish to dominate us. I'm far from being very radical, so I'm not gonna say it directly. Let us recall this Polish minister who gave the leadership of Germany and said that it would be best for Germany to take the lead in Europe, in the European Union. Our government isn't in that position. He's got other assumptions. We want to be an entity in the European Union and that is why we are inconvenient. We have an opinion. The whole point is whether it is converging, right... whether it serves Polish interests or not for Polish interests. I believe that it fully serves and that such a policy should continue. And last but not least. I've had a chance to tell you before. We are at this stage where the original, founding ideas underlying the European Union are subject to questioning and re-evaluation. The European Union to which we have joined It's been said a lot of times... This is no longer the same Union we have joined. Now she's slowly becoming different. Is this supposed to be the Union of consensus in which the voice of a small country weighs as much as the voice of the European Power? Is this supposed to be a Union in which these smaller and weaker people, economically, will be voted by a majority? And is this supposed to be a community of sovereign states, or is it supposed to be a European federal state that is built on these or other roads, through various federal institutions? Divergences on this issue are considerable in the political opinions of individual countries. One thing's for sure. If we allow the larger countries of the European Union to dictate their position, their ideas about axiology, their politics, also defence policy, with Americans or without Americans, NATO or NATO... These are fundamental issues. They divide us, they differentiate our views. And that's why it's gonna happen again that we're gonna represent our own point of view. If the government changes, it may represent the same point of view as those great European countries, and then we will be again praised, patted on the back, that we are good disciples. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u131	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to speak so as not to be accused of being in this opposition group, which criticizes, is a worse sort; it is said that we are not exactly patriots. Very often in his speeches... Today I was very disappointed by the Minister in his speech, because the Minister does not accept the fact that it is different, really. Besides, very nicely my previous speakers showed what Polish diplomacy really is today. I would like to present my speech no longer as the voice of the opposition, but rather quote the foreign minister, the former head of diplomacy, who now very often calls things by name. I am surprised, Minister, that, after your boss's speech, you have a different position today. Perhaps because he's not your boss today. Of course, it doesn't like your party either, the ruling party, because Minister Chaputowicz, the professor, is trying to talk about the situation he is in. Mr. Jacek Chaputowicz, until recently your boss, was of course a reticence, as the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he presented diplomatic statements, but who was a thinking man, knew what was happening in Poland in diplomacy. Today, the former minister can speak and speak more, e.g. about the frictions in the government. Earlier, the Prime Minister was a peacemaker in disputes between ministers, even between Minister Ziobra and others on the rule of law or the tactics of proceedings before the TSUE. Today the Prime Minister has become only a party to disputes with Minister Ziobra. And in the Rzeczpospolita, your former chief, Minister, gave an interview, which is why you no longer like him today, and criticized the government for absolute chaos in relations with Brussels, Minister, I remind you, this is your former chief After the Prime Minister's office began to take responsibility for them instead of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Oh, that's your policy today. The former head of diplomacy is much more likely to comment on the opposition. Well, I don't think that's what you're surprised about. Especially since Professor Jacek Chaputowicz, as one of the reasons for his departure, mentions his dislike for the confrontational style of operation of the ruling camp. Jacek Chaputowicz, the professor told us how it was, and it was difficult to disagree with that. It was also difficult for him in the government, which was so conflicted, in which Zbigniew Ziobro actually ruled with all these materials collected on the people of PiS for the last 5 years. Former Prime Minister, Mrs Beata Szydło estimates that Chaputowicz's interview is unprofessional, hurting against his predecessor, Mr Witold Waszczykowski, because Czaputowicz told the truth, among others. that he had fixed relations with Germany, especially with America, which had completely collapsed after the amendment of the IPN Act. The senators of the previous term remember this perfectly. When Zbigniew Rau became his successor, Professor Czaputowicz is flattered, but he draws attention, Minister, to the politicization of his former Ministry. There's no one at the minister's and vice-minister's level who's been through diplomatic school. This was just mentioned by the former ambassador and senator, Mr. Bosacki. And Rzeczpospolita has written that Polish foreign policy is not guided by concern for national interest, these are the words of Professor Czaputowicz and the reason of the state, only by concern for the good of the ruling party. He de facto said in this interview that it was a shame that he didn't try to change it when he was a minister. Mr. Marcin Bosacki also talked about it. Except Jacek Chaputowicz became head of diplomacy in January 2018, and his main task was to alleviate disputes with Brussels. It was for this reason that Jarosław Kaczyński described his nomination as an experiment. Chaputowicz surprisingly openly admitted in Rzeczpospolita that he consulted Kaczyński on certain issues, e.g. inviting the head of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the last anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. So we know exactly where the Foreign Ministry is located, and we know that very well. The chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Senator Klich, mentioned that, speaking of foreign policy, you are simply addressing your electorate, and at the same time you are lying very often. And as for the tragedy of posted workers, I will now speak, Minister, as a longtime entrepreneur. Well, I'm not living out of politics, I'm living out of my mind and hard work. I want to tell you that in my constituency, because this is a border district, there are a lot of transport companies. If you'd heard what these people were saying about your foreign policy... Well, Senator Jazłowicka told you about it, so I'm not gonna say it again. Finally, I'm going to say yes. Professor Seweryński, I value you very much, respect you and I like you, but it is not Europe that has changed since we joined the European Union. We're the ones who changed in 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u133	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm using these extra five minutes just to develop this thread that was supposed to be the fundamental thread of our discussion today. I said quite graphically that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has basically been replaced by the Ministry of Foreign Relations in the last five years. It's a painful statement, but I think it's giving away the essence of the case. I completely do not understand why the opposition had to insist that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should not be denied competence. Well, that's not the role of the opposition. In a situation where all other state institutions bubble up as if they were pumped up The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is shrinking like an old plum. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave the entire European floor to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Well, we've talked about this in this room. We've been asking for this pawn, we've been asking them not to do it. We also talked about the consequences of this step. We have reminded you that European policy is being implemented not only in Brussels but also in all the capitals of the Member States of the European Union. If we want to be effective, we must ensure that the Community dimension is integrated and coordinated with the national dimension. Without the direct flow of information between our ambassadors in the capitals of the Member States and without negotiations with our partners in the European Union, European policy, which is designed to achieve our objectives at Brussels level alone, will be less effective, less efficient. Therefore, it is impossible to return to this model that was functioning at a time when we negotiated membership of the European Union, i.e. the UKIE model. Well, as Minister Kułakowski's social advisor in 1998 and 1999 I felt that this model, which focused all foreign threads in the Office of the Committee on European Integration, made sense. At the time, the main negotiator negotiated and the Prime Minister supervised these negotiations, but now, since 2004, the situation has been completely different. The model in which the European pawn was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was successful and more effective. Well, unless this was about distrust towards the foreign minister, Professor Jacek Czaputowicz, whose president Jarosław Kaczyński referred to as an experimental minister. As far as this was concerned, we are dealing with an even more painful and worrying phenomenon, namely the adaptation of state structures to someone's sympathy or personal antipathy. It's not supposed to happen in a civilized world. You have neutered Polish diplomacy, I'm talking about the PiS government. Also by resigning from economic diplomacy, which should be conducted or co-chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the moment there is a Department of Economic Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but there is not a whole branch of economic cooperation, because it is under the control of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, which in turn is supervised by the Ministry of Development and not by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What do you mean? The economicisation of foreign policy was welcomed in Poland with satisfaction when it was announced at the beginning of the previous decade. We were all behind this. Later she was one of the priorities of the next Foreign Ministers, and now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have the right tools. What do you mean? How is Polish economic interests sought abroad? How do you deal with investors? Unless it's not about investors. How is the interest of Polish companies abroad sought? And how it is coordinated with the operation of diplomacy, since the Polish Investment and Trade Agency together with 70... There was talk of 70, and I think it's 54. This information has been classified in strange mode. I mean 54 ZBHs. Right? If all this is under the control of the Ministry of Development, what does Polish diplomacy have at the moment? And if it is available to the Ministry of Development, how does Polish diplomacy coordinate the activities of these structures? And finally, what Senator Bosacki has already started, and what I wanted to say. It's an incredible waste of human capital. Unbelievable. We have heard many times about the fact that those who once studied at the Moscow MGIMO were removed from Polish diplomacy. And I ask: why didn't a man who signed a declaration of cooperation with the SB in 1979, which, according to my generation, was a cheek - nobody decent signed a declaration of cooperation with the Security Service in 1979 - is now an ambassador of Poland in Berlin? Why Ambassador Przyłębski should be said with an open text He is still an ambassador of Poland in Berlin at the time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being cleared? Who does Ambassador Andrzej Kurnicki represent in Canada? Does he represent the Polish state or does he represent Fr Rydzyk? This must be asked after listening to his interview for Radio Maryja, in which he says that criticizing Fr.Rydzyk is an act against the Christian and Polish community. End of quote. Who does the ambassador represent in Canada? One of the Canadian bishops banned the services of o. Rydzyk in his diocese because of his faithfulness to the teaching of Pope Francis. Senator Bosacki said no one was stood up. It's just an absolute scandal, something extraordinary. No candidate has been appointed for office in the European External Action Service. We didn't have one anyway. Not a lot of ambassadors there, but we did. At the summit we had 4 ambassadors of Poles in positions of importance in the service of external actions. There's only one left at the moment, but soon we won't have anyone. Minister Jabłoński, if I remember his media statement correctly, said it was okay that nothing happened. But it happened. It happened that in the European External Action Service we will soon have no Polish ambassador. And if we do not have a Polish ambassador there, it will indeed be the best sign that we are on the margins of the European Union. And finally, this wasting of capital is also about... [[Mr. Senator...]] That's two sentences. [[Good.]] ...that dozens of people I mean 20 or more, more than 20 is currently employed, but does not do any work in the ministry. Well, they just come to work and sign attendance lists, they're in a kind of storage room, and some of them have been transferred to... and it's the diplomats! Look, the diplomats have been transferred to administrative posts and are either responsible for infrastructure... [[And to the archives.]] ...or the archives. This case of a long-standing Polish diplomat, a fantastic ambassador in several countries of the European Union, which has recently been transferred... [[11 minutes...]] ...to be the head of archival resources... [[11 minutes!]] ...is the best proof of the human resources policy currently pursued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u135	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking you on your behalf for all our foreign service, the ministry's employees for a good job, a really good job. The course of this discussion, what you were talking about, but also what you're trying to do. Let's call it, colloquially, attach representatives of the opposition, that's what it says. Why? Well, it's harder for Poland in the international arena now. The question is, why? Simple answer: because Poland stands for independence. It's not a one-time act, it's a process. You can understand the representatives of these countries, the authorities of those countries that may have once imposed their will on our country. I'm not just talking about the Soviet Union here, I'm also talking about what happened after the turn of 1989. With clear or unclear influences to control the course of Polish politics, and in the international arena to have a faithful ally who will not represent his interests, but will always speak for business, let's call it, sovereign. Yeah, it's different now. We clearly describe our problems and needs, but also our position. The fact that it does not like, also in the West, also in the countries of the European Union, can only testify to one thing. This position is different in many cases, but it is ours. It is to be in line with the Polish reason of the state, with Polish interests, with the interests of Polish entrepreneurs, Polish consumers, Polish citizens, who e.g. They work abroad. That's just how it's gonna be, and that's how you get used to it. This is a fundamental change. Perhaps it will be easier to get used to a young generation. It already has freedom in its blood and that it can articulate its position. It was like in the Bible: 40 years had to be waited to destroy an old generation of slaves. Let it die out, and this new one may already be conquerors of Canaan, it can realize its own vision of the future of the state and nation. It doesn't have to be that way with us, we let those who lived in the communist period. They remember that system and treat it as a warning. They remember exactly what happened back then when we were sovereign. Now there's a second reason why it's so hard. Of course, in most countries, including European ones, these Western civilizations to which you refer, there is opposition. It criticizes the conduct of the rulers, because it is an opposition, but this criticism does not exceed a certain level, and this level is some imponderabilia, some principles I say, it's sometimes called state rations. Which must be fulfilled. From them neither the opposition nor those who rule. And then it could be the other way around. I'm glad we're going to talk about the military aid of the United States at the next point and that this is where we agree. Let's see if, in my criticism, you know, the details, I'd say, you're not gonna drown the public. But it's not just about that, because it's about everyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that people from your group in the international forum, in the most widely discussed European Parliament, are complaining about Poland, and it is false. Because if it were facts... LGBT-free zones, because some young man was pinning traffic signs and putting it on Facebook. You've been pursuing facebook policy for some time now. I've spoken several times in this place, from this tribune: not source, not from documents, but from Facebook relations. Well, if you have such an opposition I don't want to use the adjective, 'cause it's probably not total anymore, or at least it's not called that. After that, it is difficult to implement the Polish policy on the international stage. Question is, who's right? Of course, maybe we're wrong. I will only quote to you 1 sentence from the "Strategy for the Development of the National Security System of the Republic of Poland 2022. This date was supposed to be the end date of this strategy. The Council of Ministers adopted it by Resolution No 67 on 9 April 2013. In this strategy, a few months before Russia's aggression on Ukraine, there was no threat, military, of course, from the Russian side. This corresponds to your level of insight, your analysis of the situation, your view of the situation. That's not enough. Our defense system was supposed to be built on it. How fortunate that this changed in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, there are facts, and there are facts that are not discussed, and there are interpretations. That's a fact. This is how you judged the situation. And now you're trying to teach others how to behave and what to accept. Think about it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u138	I'm not gonna argue with my predecessor, I'm just gonna sigh deep. Poland has the reputation of a country hostile to sexual minorities in the West. This translates into unfavorable investment decisions. It also affects military affairs. It is no secret that many congressmen are involved in LGBT cases. These issues are brought together by Donald Trump and Joe Bidena. These are the words of the ambassador of the United States, Mrs Mosbacher. These are words that are also a warning, and that is how they should be treated. In a moment we will be discussing the adoption of a military agreement with the United States, which will be ratified by us today too, but the other side of the United States is needed for this ratification. And Minister Jabłoński asked about these words... well, he agrees with the suggestion that this is some kind of conspiracy to take from Donald Trump the votes of the Polish people in the United States. It's all being listened to and analyzed. Is this some kind of conspiracy or just an assessment of the situation and a warning? You're telling the Minister there's no problem here. Okay, but were there any local government resolutions? Did someone initiate these resolutions? It is the Law and Justice, it is the Councillors of Law and Justice, i.e. those associated with the rulers in Poland at the moment, who initiated these resolutions. It cannot be said that this has nothing to do with this direction of internal policy, which affects this particular sphere. But, Minister, when I heard about these double standards, I felt like I heard Russian politicians. When you accuse them of anything, you hear it in the answer: these are double standards, we have ours. Or that others are other standards defined or measured. When I heard about these double standards, I just asked myself, did you graduate from Moscow? No, you graduated from Warsaw, good college. But you're in this group, the Ordo Iuris organization, which has done and is landing on all government agendas, as well as the courts, because the Supreme Court has done so. You shouldn't be doing what doesn't cause any controversy in Ordo Iuris, moving to foreign policy. This cannot be transferred to the policy of the Polish state at all. This is a completely different situation for you. What is our foreign policy right now? Well, briefly it was actually characterized by a former minister who recently left, Minister Chaputowicz. He said there's no foreign policy. There are several centres that conduct foreign policy. We talked about this here and opposed it when European policy was separated, this European policy was transferred to the Prime Minister's office, when trade departments were liquidated in embassies and the Polish Investment and Trade Agency's agenda was established, i.e. parallel economic embassies, when Minister Dworczyk set up some foundations that were also to have foreign agendas. It was clear that you wanted a parallel policy, and that's what it looks like now. In addition, we find out that foreign policy will be transferred to the President's office. So, what, the president's gonna be in the government? Of course, the president has competence in foreign and defence policy, but it's not exactly what he wants to be told. We are in fact the 1997 Constitution, and not in fact the so-called Constitution. a small constitution in which President Wałęsa functioned, which caused various kinds of controversy. What is the situation with the European Union? You say the opposition reports, the opposition inspires anti-Polish actions. First of all, we are also Poles, we are elected by Poles and we have the right to our own opinion on the foreign policy of the government, the present government of PiS, which is, of course, the Polish government, but for which we are in opposition. So not only do we have the right, but we also have the duty to talk about what problems are, and we have problems in Poland not only with the Law and Justice but also with the rule of law. Because a democratic state is not only free elections and democratic elections, but also the rule of law, whether governments take into account the rights of minorities, including those who are in opposition. I'll be right back. How are things with our neighbors? Indeed, the basis of our foreign policy, not from today, or good relations with Ukraine, is weakened. It means they have to be rebuilt. We talked about this here when it was sometimes wanted by the Ukrainians to accept our version of history. That's not how it works, we said it wasn't possible, and we said what the consequences would be, not only in dealing with the IPN with its counterpart, but also in foreign policy. What is the relationship with Russia? After all, you ruined this relationship by accusing the Russians of assassinating us of murdering our elite with the president. Well, those accusations were. How could you think that such accusations, false, about the crimes on our elite, would not leave a mark on their relations with Russia? What about the Germans? You use Germans every once in a while as that black people. Of course, the history of World War II is terrible, terrible, but if one does not see that Germany is another country, that they are a democratic state, and does not see that they are our most important ally in the European Union, then it is a game to the detriment of Poland, to the detriment of the security of Poland. The German Ambassador, our most important ally in the European Union, waited 3 months for agreement, 3 months. Did it affect and affect our relationship? Well, in public, the Germans don't comment on it, but I'm curious how the German ambassador evaluates the situation and what he thinks. I'm sure that... maybe you think he's full of good thoughts, maybe he's got good intentions, but treating a German ambassador candidate like that to me is completely incomprehensible. And no one explained it. The European Union, its attitude towards the European Union... Do you want the European Commission, the European Union to be strengthened or weakened? Of course, whatever we want, the European Commission, the European Union is being strengthened. Is it in our best interest? Yeah, I think it's in our best interest. But I know that you, the current government, have a different approach to this and are scaring these big countries in the European Union. Only that in a situation where the security is to strengthen the European institutions and to integrate the European Union, so that these big players can be placed in the right places in their entirety and not individually, you feel that the European Union should not be supported and that we must fear the European Union, which is becoming more and more integrated and stronger. That doesn't sound like what you're saying, but I'm able to learn from what the other ministers are saying. It's not literal. If everything is okay with the rule of law, as the Minister says, then why is the PiS government against linking the rule of law with access to EU funds? If everything's okay, maybe you just had to support it. And finally, the Weimar Treaty. You said that you and President Macron agreed that the meeting within the Weimar Triangle of a very important institution, very important from the point of view of our place in the European Union, will be held this year, but President Macron did not decide whether or not to set a deadline due to the pandemic. Minister, President Macron was now in Lithuania, he was in Lithuania and not in Poland within the Weimar Triangle. What does that say? About our strength or about the distance between France and what PiS is doing in Poland? Of course, our affairs, what is happening in our country, with politics and with the political capabilities of our country are linked. Unfortunately, this is related, and what is happening in our country is not well rated by our allies, not only by allies in the European Union, but also, as you can see, in the United States. Yeah, and we're okay with that, getting close to the United States. Minister, last but not least, the case of Belarus. Yes, we work together on this, there was a meeting, there was an agreement with the opposition. How many other cases have there been? For the previous president, it worked as part of the Homeland Security Bureau, and now it doesn't even exist. Minister, we also need to think about parliamentary diplomacy, because sometimes it is that it is a parliamentarian who, in difficult matters, contacts a parliamentarians from another country, can say more and less obliging. That also applies to the opposition. We want to strengthen Poland on the international stage, but everything depends on you, on your department and on Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Absolutely not ad personam, just about the rules. I believe and I would like to say to the High House that the representatives of the formation, whose president, when this formation was in opposition, called Poland the Russian-German condominium, should not instruct the opposition on the principles of admissibility of criticism, on the principles of what is beyond and beyond the right of state in this criticism. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u141	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Vice-Marshal Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is always a very important debate in every parliament when we are talking about foreign policy, and today we are also talking about a new minister, because it has come together. in time. It is worthwhile in such a debate on foreign policy, especially if it takes place in the Senate, which is to be a reflection chamber, to go a little beyond the current party policy. It was right here to appeal that sometimes, when we are talking about diplomacy, about the rightness of the state, we should go beyond these party divisions. We celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle and today, when we look at what happened 100 years ago, and at Poland's regaining independence, and at the victory in the Warsaw Battle, and then discounting or not this victory, because here opinions are very different, as far as the Treaty of lynx is concerned, we realize that today the average Pole completely does not remember political divisions, very, very sharp, which accompanied the Kiev expedition of Józef Piłsudzki, the Treaty of lynx, does not know what the assessment of even the victory in the Warsaw Battle was then. But politics passes, people go away, also biologically go away, some emotions pass away, and the Polish national interest remains. Today, in 2020, 100 years after the great victory over the Bolsheviks, more than 100 years after regaining independence, it is worth considering where these imponderabilies are. Well, no doubt it's independence. As far as I'm concerned, each of us is absolutely in agreement. Of course, we must realize that in today's world independence is defined by the stage of civilization in which we are as humans, simply as humanity. Today this sovereignty is limited, it is not full. Today, Poland operates in a body such as the European Union, which in its essence assumes a limitation of the sovereignty of the entities forming this Union. The independence of Poland is also the fact that we ourselves decided to renounce part of our sovereignty. She didn't come here in any tanks, as it happened in 1945, wasn't imposed by anyone. Poles decided to do so in the accession treaty, knowing that they voted in favour of a new form of sovereignty, on the one hand limited, but on the other hand allowing Poles to elect parliamentarians to the European Parliament, allowing Poles to speak on the most important issues for the continent, finally allowing Poles to exercise their functions and influence the very important institutions of the European Union. The President of the European Parliament was Polish, the President of the European Council was Polish. So that today this guarantee of Polish sovereignty takes place within the European Union. If someone doesn't question that fact Which of course, I mean. to challenge the European Union, has the right It must realise that Poland's membership in the European Union, which guarantees us security today, from the west above all... Because the European Union, from the point of view of Polish-German, European-German relations, is nothing more than an embodiment of the dynamics of the German people, the German countries, into the process of European integration. This dynamic of the Germans, which we have seen as a nation for a thousand years, if it is not crowded into European dynamics, turns against us, very often in an alliance with our other eastern neighbour. So also from this point of view the European Union, European integration, as a safeguard against German imperialism Let's not be afraid to say it. It's a value. So what is this real danger for the Polish state today? This is because it is not pressed into Germany, which is integrated with Europe, in the foreseeable future, which is also worth highlighting. And let's hope it's always gonna be like this. But what is this direct, almost daily threat to the sovereignty and freedom of the Polish state and Poles as a nation? It is consistent with the policy of the Moscow state for hundreds of years. And this policy today, not only in relation to Poland, has taken on the reversal of the collapse of the Soviet Union. Vladimir Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, said nothing less, but that the disintegration of the Soviet Union was the greatest tragedy of the 20th century. Not World War II, not the Holocaust, not the crimes of communism, but the disintegration of the Soviet Union. And Vladimir Putin's policy is aimed at eliminating the consequences of this breakdown. One of these effects is Poland's membership of the West. Vladimir Putin wants to question Poland's membership of the West by breaking our unity with the West, breaking the unity of the West itself, as well as moving us against each other internally and leading us against our neighbours. Anyone who does not understand this fundamental objective of Russian policy It is not easy to argue between Poles and Lithuanians, to fight Poles and Ukrainians, to fight Poles and Germans, to fight Poles and Jews, to leave Poland isolated in the world, as it happened in 1939, anyone who does not understand this policy of Putin and this Russian policy has a disturbing tendency in this policy to participate, by breaking the West, breaking our alliances and breaking our difficult neighbourhood with our neighbours, with whom it is actually not easy, because history is simply not easy. But today building consensus of Polish politics is also very difficult because too often in the policy of the current power camp ad hoc political interest, ad hoc propaganda interest prevails over what is the national interest of the Republic of Poland. And nothing illustrates it better than the unfortunate IPN Act, which caused us to rain bitter rain from the great patriotic cloud. Humiliated Polish Prime Minister, humiliated Polish country. And your policy of getting up from your knees is that today, what I don't like, I'm saying this to make it clear, regardless of the fact that Mrs. Mosbacher is right. The American ambassador believes that it is worth teaching Poles about anything. But you're letting that happen! I don't want anyone teaching Poles, even if I repeat it. Mrs Mosbacher is right about this. But you're the only ones who'll take it. blame for this, because you unnecessarily caused a topic about which everyone who reads newspapers, everyone who is in the West, knows that due to this worldview war, counter-revolution of the world view, which you are conducting here, Poland loses in the international dimension. And you know very well that Poland does not gain by it. That's why it's so difficult to build consensus with you, because you are very often accompanied by the patriotic hindrances that you give to Poles from morning to evening. The practice, which has nothing to do with patriotism, and which causes them to blur their hands in Moscow, because here Poles lose another ally in the West, because here Poland is once again being written wrong, because once again in the West the silent partners of Putin can say: why should we take care of Poles, why should we help Poles if they do not want to help themselves? Today we also lose this fundamental civilizational asset, an asset to ensure our security, which is strengthening the Polish position in the East. For what should Poland in the East shine, if not our freedom, but our civilizational advantage, which it gives us to belong to the West? We're not gonna be better Putin than Putin, but we can be what we were when we were great. The light of Western civilization in the East. And in such Poland I believe, such Poland I want to serve, and such Poland I am deeply convinced of it. I want to serve politicians of Law and Justice and today's opposition in Poland. If you go beyond this ad hoc dispute that your bad advisors are pushing you into, then we can talk together and work together for Poland. Because it is worth remembering that ad hoc disputes go through, political parties disappear, political emotions go back to the past, and what remains is the Polish state, the only institution that has the right to demand blood from us, and we have no right to refuse it. And this institution, the holiest of those on earth, is to serve. No one else, just the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u143	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Paweł Jabłoński, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u144	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will try to refer maybe not to everyone, but to as much as possible of those statements that have been put into the discussion, because I think it is worth some clarification. Especially since, first of all, there are many words here that I think are not quite correct in this discussion; secondly, there are some untrue statements here that I would like to correct; thirdly, I would also like to refer to certain principles, some values that some senators have spoken of here. And thank you very much for that, because this is extremely important, I think, not only in foreign policy, but also to a large extent. This is what we are led by our foreign policy, these are the values we believe in and which we are trying to implement both in the country and abroad, as part of the best efforts and tools we have. For starters... Well, I wouldn't want it to sound like I'm gonna lecture somebody here. I see that some senators are sensitive to such suggestions. However, I think that the statements made here, the statement that the ministry was some pathetic reflection that it had been neutered, were inappropriate. These castration metaphors rained here several times. I think it's a little contrasting, especially when we're talking about those pathetic reflexes. With what the Senate really should be. Well, at least once it was referred to as the Senate as the House of Reflection. If we are talking about the House of Reflection, it seems that some kind of comparison, some kind of expression should be retained for the purposes of a public discussion. But since that's the decision of some of your senators, there's no way to react. So, at first, let me refer to what you have mentioned, Mr Klich, the initiator of this discussion. Mr. Senator talked about castrations, talking about different types of activities of our diplomacy, but he started by saying that in fact the V4 group does not exist, does not contribute to the improvement of our negative position, and is also just a means to an end, not an end in itself. Of course it is. No international alliance is ever an end in itself. All alliances in foreign policy have one main objective: to improve the situation of our citizens, our nation. This is the national interest in foreign policy. The V4 is also a means to an end. We improve our negotiating position, but we interpret it as the common interest of the whole region. It was said here that there was such a vote with the result of 27:1. Mr. Senator, of course there was a vote. It took place in 2016, immediately after the former Prime Minister, Ewa Kopacz, betrayed our allies from Visegrad. I've already talked about it in the beginning. They've memorized it very well, and they're coming back to it today. We had to rebuild... [[Those are disgraceful words you have no right to speak in the Senate.]] Mr. Marshal, I kindly ask you to silence such interference. I didn't interrupt anyone's speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u146	Minister, the senators are responding to your words. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: They have the right to do so.]] You're using rather radical terms, which is that you're talking about betrayal... [[No, they're lying and offensive. You don't have the right to speak that way about...]] ...to be done by the former Prime Minister, whom I was honored to serve. as her Secretary of State. I want to tell you that this kind of formulation... You have been gracious to instruct the senators here about what to say and what not to say, what you think is appropriate in the Senate debate and what is not appropriate. Well, I would like to instruct you as the marshal of this House that it is not appropriate for you to use to the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland the wordings which you have just used, thus showing that your party service is greater than respect for those who hold the highest offices in the State. I am instructing you about the need to preserve culture and ask you not to use words offensive to the Prime Minister of the Republic. Thank you. [[The word servitude, Mr. Marshal, is not appropriate either.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Are you finished, Mr. Marshal?]] Excuse me? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: May I continue?]] Yes, you can continue. But you're not here to ask me questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u147	Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, the word of servitude doesn't suit the marshal either. [[Thank you very much.]] I would be grateful if you would follow some fair rules in this discussion. I wasn't referring to those scandalous words that were spoken here by a whole group of senators. I didn't do it during those speeches, because I thought the senators had the right to speak. Even if they speak outrageously, they should be able to do so in an undisturbed way, also because our citizens, who are watching these debates, should be able to experience these standards fully in order to learn what standards they have in the High House. I'm trying to follow that rule. Speaking of betrayal, I mean a very specific case. If you make a promise to someone, if you declare something a day or two before making a key decision, and then you change your mind against previous arrangements, that's it. That's cheating... [[That's your opinion.]] ...is a violation of certain arrangements. Well, it's the Foreign Minister's information, so I'm telling you that to this day, we're being reprimanded. We had to explain with great effort to our partners from the Visegrad Group. We had to make a powerful effort to assure them that it wouldn't happen again. The fact that we've been able to rebuild it is our great success. This work wouldn't have been necessary at all if it hadn't been for the work of the Prime Minister, whom the Marshal was honored to serve. That is our position, which we have repeatedly expressed. We'll always talk about it, because it's just true. Then... [[Our position, which is it? Government or yours?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I mean, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal, please...]] You can keep making noise all the time, keep interrupting, yelling. I thought there were slightly different standards here. I'm trying to apply them. I hope you didn't... [[But you're a guest, Minister...]] If I'm having a guest, I'm trying to treat him with respect and I'm not interrupting his speech. It's the rules I take. I hope that, after all, you also accept such rules. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I ask you not to interrupt the Minister.]] But first of all, I would like to focus on substantive matters. I have what you said in order here. I'm gonna try to relate everything so that no one accuses me of leaving something unanswered. In his second statement, Senator Klich raised a very important point, namely the transfer of European affairs to the Prime Minister's office, indicating once again that it is castration, that it is a strategic error, that otherwise it should work. I am aware that such an opinion may occur, and this was the subject of a very profound discussion. We just figured it out. And I think that this is also reflected in the positive effects of this work. That policy in the European Union is not a classic foreign policy. You are well aware of that, too. The European Union essentially covers all sectors, all sectors, all departments, all departments of government administration. We have therefore considered that the proper way to manage this very complicated process, often requiring a great deal of expertise and coordination of the whole state policy, is to transfer these issues, these competences to the central government body, which is the Prime Minister's firm. Does that work? I think it can be assessed after less than a year since it started to work. Budget negotiations were a huge test for this new structure. I'm afraid Senator Bosacki has left. I hope he comes back, but right now is the right time to say... Senator Bosacki mentioned here that we allegedly negotiated a lower budget; he said it was 55 billion. I don't know where that number came from. I'd like to correct that. Senator Bosacki made an exact mistake of 104 billion, because we negotiated EUR 159 billion within the budget, a reconstruction instrument, within the framework of all the instruments that will serve Poland as a powerful tool for modernization and reconstruction after the pandemic. This is the real result of how the administration works, how foreign policies and EU policies work. And we thought that taking EU policy into account at the NAP would help better coordinate the whole state policy. Then there were accusations here that we were wasting human capital, that we were raiding ambassadors, that we were resigning from the service of some ambassadors. Of course we do, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a natural process. I think that information about changes in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, just as in any other ministry, is completely natural. After each parliamentary election, such a change takes place from the ministerial summit itself by the deputy ministers, the heads of departments, as well as the ambassadors. I'm gonna wait for Ambassador Bosacki because he talked a lot about it here. I wish he had a chance to hear it, so I'll get back to that. But in general, the principle is fundamental. If we have the power to give political and democratic... And that is still the case of Polish democracy, not that there is a permanent group governed by it, which does not change and says that nothing will be modified if there is another outcome of democratic elections. If we have democracy, then the democratically elected government has the right to make such changes. In every country such a thing exists, Poland is not an exception. Democracy has its consequences. Anyway, lately, it's been a mess. Not just with us, but on the other side of the Atlantic. Senator Jazłowiecka read here a number of charges, which were intended to indicate that... [[A voice from the hall: Minister, and you read from the postcard, too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I ask you not to disturb the Minister.]] Mr. Marshal, I kindly ask you to calm down this kind of action, because it doesn't fit a bit, after all. [[You just don't belong here.]] I'm awkward all the time... [[You're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, ……]] [[But I would like to ask you very much... to remain calm and not be indulgent in provocations.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for this very substantive comment on my statement. Senator Jazłowiecka has read a number of accusations, which in fact can be described as repeating some kind of publicist also on the basis: everything is wrong, nothing works. White man. Polish initiatives without the support of the European Union, such a password fell. Well, who else led to a European Council meeting if not Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? What other government is involved in initiating actions? We have another European Council tomorrow. It is Poland and other countries of our region that work together to solve this problem, the Belarusian crisis, with the participation of the whole European Union. This is our common collective goal. We do not compete here with Lithuania, with other countries about who is better placed at a press conference, to whom the media gives priority to the palm. This is the strategic goal of Poland. The strategic goal of Poland is for the European Union to get involved here and for this purpose other countries need to participate, Lithuania needs participation, Visegrad Group needs participation, the whole European Union needs participation. And that's what we're doing. I remember the first day when the Prime Minister announced that there was a need for a summit, the words of criticism fell. Fortunately, this criticism was somewhat subdued, it was said that it was too far-reaching that no one would agree to it. We have heard journalistic leaks about how the whole Union has irritated Poland, that in Brussels they are irritated by the fact that it was Poland that came out with such an initiative. But this initiative has been successful. It was Poland that led to the summit being convened. It's the results that matter, not what some journalist writes to sell his thesis to the public. I did not fully understand the attention of the senator about Poland's participation in projects commissioned by other countries. It seems to me that this is a fairly serious accusation that Poland is acting on behalf of other countries. We act in an alliance with those countries that we believe their interests are in a specific area consistent with Polish interests. I don't want to repeat the allegations that some politicians led towards the Civic Platform government when the Platform ruled, the allegations of acting on behalf of other states. I don't think such charges should be brought if there's no hard evidence. I would like us to maintain some kind of abstinence in the formulation of this kind too. We make some strategic decisions, working together in an alliance. Here were the slogans that it was listened to by external diplomats. If this is also heard in the East, the statement that Poland is acting on behalf of another country will probably be repeated today on various Russian television news channels. Among the arguments or accusations of the senator, that five years ago the voice of Poland mattered, even in Eastern matters... Yeah, I told you about it, and I'm gonna say it again. The voice of Poland was so important that we did not find ourselves in Normandom format. We had nothing to say about Ukraine. The voice of Poland mattered so much. on international issues, that basically all foreign policy at some point was directed to ensure that the President of the Civic Platform and the Prime Minister were given a high EU position. In this context I'm going back to how we care about positions for Poles. Indeed, at that time one position was subject to the whole policy. That is how it was seen, so that we do not actually articulate our own interests so that in time we would receive the prize so that the Prime Minister would receive this prize in principle. [[He's gonna make a career.]] If we have another thesis that the senator has read or put up... Honestly, I don't really know how to react to that. As I hear that once there was no shame in being a Pole abroad, and something like this the senator has formulated here, you said that people used to brag about being from Poland... Today, in guesses, this is a reason for shame. Senator, if that is the case, if you are in fact ashamed, then I think that many Poles are ashamed for having such a senator in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I think that it is not appropriate for any politician to formulate that someone is ashamed to be a Pole, even if he does not agree with the current government policy. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u148	Excuse me. [[Voice from the room: How can you say that?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I don't understand how you can say that either.]] If you have a formal application, please report it. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion. I'm on a formal issue.]] In that case, which one of your senators has a formal motion? [[I don't know which one of us. Danny, would you mind?]] [[Yes.]] [[Thank you very much.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. He stands before us, before the Senate of the Republic of Poland Deputy Minister of Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I understand it, a man who is responsible for the work of Polish diplomacy. If you can't diplomatically answer the senators' questions with the use of parliamentary language, even the most difficult way to speak about the Polish diplomacy class, please stop insulting the Senate and the Republic of Poland, because people are sitting here... [[Senator, I'm so sorry...]] ...by name and by name... Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[But, Senator, no, I'm sorry, I want to...]] Mr. Senator, I'll finish... [[I gave you the floor on the formal motion.]] Yes. [[Bye, ma'am.]] In order to stop the statement, I justify this request. And finish discrediting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Polish diplomacy... [[I have to...]] ...and an insult to the Polish Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u150	I understand that the senator is making a formal request that I interrupt the Minister's statement. Yes? I cannot put such a proposal to the vote, simply so I would very much ask for a proposal which I can put to the vote. There's no such conclusion... [[Then I ask for a recess.]] Then I don't manage this break, that's my right. I don't see any reason to take a break, because I don't know why she'd serve. I would ask you to continue with the statements of the Foreign Minister and I would like to draw attention to the fact that his behaviour in this stand bears all the features of provoking senators. Talking about how you're going to be ashamed of one of the senators, about what the senator should and shouldn't be doing in the Senate isn't your role. This is the role of only voters who, in the forthcoming elections of each of these senators, will judge his behaviour one way or another. That's not your role. And the division of power we have causes you to answer the questions of the senators that are being asked. Of course, as a minister, you are a politician and you have the right to express political opinions about, I think, no one in their right mind has any doubts. But I appeal to you not to insult the participants in this discussion. Proceed. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u151	Thank you very much, Senator, for this precious instruction, I only regret that such instruction has not been formulated in relation to the earlier statements of the senators, because during this discussion I try not to provoke, I try to respond to all the thesis that have been said here. Every comment I make has come to this courtroom before. If it rains I'm continuing this because I don't think I've offended anyone here. The kind of slogan that someone is ashamed to be a Pole, it's worth considering seriously... I didn't tell you about my judgment. I'm not referring to it. Honestly, I'm not really interested. I am not going to get involved and judge your political activities, Senator, I am describing how this can be perceived, especially since, as many times raised in this room, people around the world listen to this, diplomats from all over the world. If we have this kind of statement, I think it is my duty to respond to it, as vice-minister of foreign affairs, to address this issue, even if the feelings of one or another senator are, well, somehow affected or touched. It's hard if you've said a few words... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...the words have consequences, including the reaction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome...]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry if my speech is interrupted all the time, but I don't see the point of repeating anything like that at all. What's that supposed to mean? The senators spoke, and I didn't interrupt them...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u152	I am appealing to the senators to continue to interrupt the Minister's record. I call on the senators to submit formal applications which are formal and not to express their views. And I ask you to finish your statement by the Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Thank you very much.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please correct me.]] But what correction? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Mr. Marshal, thank you very much...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like a corrigendum. The Minister puts words in my mouth that I didn't say.]] Did your name come up in that statement? [[He's still putting...]] As I understand it, the statement ad vocem will be after the Minister's statement. [[No, I want it right now, Minister...]] On the basis of what point of the Rules of Procedure do you wish to interrupt the Minister's statement from the stand and take the floor on this matter? Please indicate to me the point of the Rules of Procedure which allows me to take the floor of the Minister and give it to you. I imagine a situation in which you, insulted by the Minister's statement, would like to correct that statement. You can do that by force after the Minister's statement has been completed. Another way not to snort this debate, I don't see. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I ask the Minister to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, back to the matter strictly. not referring to the category of shame or emotion... Senator Bosacki, former ambassador, pointed to the issue of rubble of experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, former ambassadors. I mentioned this when your senator wasn't here, so given that the senator was the one who formulated the question, I'm going to repeat my statement. It is a natural thing in every democratic system that the government, the various ministries, also the cast of these ministries, changes into a natural democratic cycle. At a time when there is a democratic change of power, there is a change. I don't want to bring it up again with ad personam, but the ambassador is a good example here. He was called to an ambassador's post at a facility in Canada... by the way, he pointed out a brief experience to me, but his experience wasn't particularly long either. He was appointed ambassador, and after a change of government, he was dismissed because the Foreign Minister felt that he had no confidence in this position. That was the sovereign decision of the Foreign Minister. It is natural in every democracy. Otherwise, there would be a situation where the government can change democratically but cannot act in reality. That is democracy, that this action is possible. You have to accept that if you have lost the election, that such changes are being made. The diplomats who are sent to the outposts are excellent professionals. Unfortunately, they are often attacked. There was a discussion on the occasion of the parliamentary elections, when our diplomats were attacked for allegedly obstructing Poles abroad voting, which was a complete lie and a fabrication. We also explained this here at the Senate committee meeting. I call on our diplomats not to attack, en block or individually. If anyone has reservations about a particular ambassador, like the ones that died here... Although I think it's not entirely appropriate to point out to the ambassador that he spoke for the Polish citizen in an interview, pointing it out to him only because this citizen is a Catholic priest, whom you do not particularly respect here. Well, it is the duty of the Polish ambassador to defend Polish citizens in any situation. So if you have this kind of comment, this kind of criticism... Of course, there is a full right to formulate it, but I again call for this criticism to be honest and substantive and not based on certain personal issues. Another point that you have pointed out to Senator Bosacki is the EU budget. I have already said this in the absence of the senator, I will repeat this once again, so that this information is given directly: not 55 billion, Senator. 159 billion That's exactly what she negotiated. Poland in the near future. There's a difference, you said 55, and that's 159 billion. [[No, I didn't say that. You're manipulating me again. 55 billion less... not true again.]] We'll check the protocol, we can bet, you said 55 billion. Inefficiencies in the European Union. The meeting of Cichanouska with the Polish Prime Minister Senator Bosacki described as something completely irrelevant. Well, with all due respect, Mr. Senator, in these meetings, in those international relations that we're trying to conduct, I talked about it here in my initial part of the speech. The politicians of the Civic Platform also took part. Attacking here and pointing out that meeting was meaningless, that it was in the West that nobody was interested at all... Really, all you have to do is find out what the world's media reports were. It was the first foreign visit of Cichanouska after the presidential election in Belarus. There was a great deal of interest around it, and the fact that it is continuing today is also the result of Poland's support for Belarus' actions. I really think that... again, I do not want to pick on words like that or any other, but again I appeal and thank you again for the fact that, as a rule, most of your senators and Members, including the opposition Members, speak with one voice with the government that we are able to... Even if not with one voice in all matters, at least we agree on the substance. Well, and the substance is the absolute strategic interest of the state. Here I would like to thank Professor Sewerinski very much, who said something about an extraordinary, very important thing. It's about values. The fact that the values that lead the Polish foreign policy and lead the politicians in Europe may vary from moment to moment, we can struggle, we can come to such situations when we enter into some kind of disputes about these values. We look at things differently in Poland, and we look at things differently in countries that, for example, look at things in Poland. They have never experienced such misfortune as being subject to communist rule. To this day... We can see in certain European countries, which have never had such a fate, that communism is treated as something acceptable there, as a potential, equal worldview trend in the public debate. This is something that is absolutely unacceptable with us. This conflict of values, which we sometimes deal with, sometimes leads to the fact that the dispute is also moving to other fields. As long as you have the courage to preach these values and continue with these values. Well, if it comes from another assumption, from the assumption that our values are something worse, that our values are something that we can confess here in Poland and not especially worth going out with these values somewhere wider... I don't mean to be embarrassed, but some fear, maybe some complexes. Some politicians, including foreign politicians in the past, were guided by such complexes. It's worth avoiding these complexes. The truth is that the values that are most valuable to us, which most of the Polish society speaks of today, are a huge demand in Europe, also in those countries that today seem to be the opposite of us. This is something that gives Poland a huge opportunity, we can be a European leader of values. I think that in the coming months and years this will become increasingly apparent. The issue of economic diplomacy and the participation of the President's Chancellery in foreign policy is also mentioned here. First, the issue of economic diplomacy. The decision that was made was primarily intended to serve to professionalise this diplomacy even more, to bet on direct contacts with entrepreneurs. The role of diplomat sometimes makes some kind of action impossible. It is not so, ma'am, that the creation of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, the separation of this structure as a commercial structure, has completely separated it from the state policy. After all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our embassies in each country directly cooperate with foreign trade offices. If you're interested in details about each particular country... This cooperation takes place on different terms in different countries. In the United States there are 6 foreign trading offices, in some countries there are 1 such establishment, in some countries there are none, especially in the smaller ones, and they are operated by offices from neighbouring countries. I'll be happy to give you detailed information. Once again, it's an extremely extensive subject. On what basis? It's happening. This cooperation is, it is simply constructed so that all tasks are carried out by these entities, by those institutions which are simply the most appropriate for this. The President's office and the President's participation in foreign policy. The slogan here is that we are no longer under the rule of a small constitution and the president does not conduct foreign policy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are under the rule of the 1997 Constitution, which is very clear that the President is working with the President of the Council of Ministers and with the Minister responsible for shaping and conducting foreign policy. It's an art. 133 constitutions. If you are accusing the President of being involved in foreign policy, especially when it is a policy related to his actions as Chief of the Armed Forces, that is completely incomprehensible to me. Such a charge could be made if the situation was reversed. We are not a country where policies in one area or another can only be pursued through one resort. Only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to conduct the whole foreign policy? This would be completely impossible, because in areas of interest of the various ministries of agriculture, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Infrastructure, etc. There are international topics. You can't concentrate everything in one resort, it would be completely dysfunctional. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs coordinates these actions and that is exactly what our role is. If we are talking about organisational matters, about how the ministry works, how the ministry operates, we are today, as I mentioned, on the eve of the introduction probably quite large, yet developed, concept of restructuring the Ministry. Government restructuring is underway, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be changing. We're going to analyze how things worked. There's never an ideal organization, but there's never a situation that can't be improved. The main role of the Ministry remains what was always there, i.e. coordination of government policy, coordination and making every resort conduct its international activities where it can, alone, but always with participation, knowledge and cooperation... in accordance with foreign policy objectives, international policy, which is set by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in agreement, of course, with the Prime Minister and with the President, in accordance with the Polish Constitution. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]] There were also passwords here... I don't want to raise the temperature of this discussion, but it can't be left unanswered. If I'm under attack again, ad personam, because of cooperation with social organizations with which the senators disagree or disagree with the senator, the marshal who raised such a charge... With all due respect, I do not accuse each of your senators that you belong to a party which is in my opinion a party acting against the interests of Poland. [[It's not true again.]] That's what I think. But I think in the discussion... [[You could react to such a statement...]] I think in the discussion... [[I'm gonna ask you to...]] Once again, I'd be grateful for the reprimand. [[Mr. Senator, I'm in session, and I decide...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: To the Polish Parliament...]] [[But I'm the one who decides when there's a violation of the rules...]] [[What's your opinion?]] [[...and don't come in...]] Well, if that's what the senator wants, that's how we'll be able to talk. Good. I wasn't going to do it like this, but if the senator insists, of course we can. Maybe it's supposed to be the House of Reflection. I've written down a few more things here. Mr. Senator, it's mostly for you. Again, if you're betting that... okay, maybe not. I will try to stop it for good, for the quality of this debate. There are charges here from a marshal I don't see, but I'll try to refer them to. If you have a charge that the Polish reputation is compromised, that Poland is being misconstrued, that Poland is misspelled... I was accused here of believing in some kind of conspiracy. I don't know why Mr. Marshal accused me of such faith because I directly denied that I believed in such conspiracies. I'm very sorry your marshal isn't here and he won't be able to hear it. I think that since there is such a thesis that the reputation of Poland is compromised, it would be best if we all, especially here in this Chamber, learned from it. We say that Poland is spoken ill. Then let's not talk bad about Poland [[Applause]] Because the essential part of this criticism of Poland from international organizations is inspired by us, it comes out of Poland. You are well aware that without your activity, without duplication of these false stories about Poland this criticism would not be. The reputation of Poland would be better... [[It's not about Poland. It's about politics.]] ...and Polish foreign policy would be better. Mr. Senator, you interfered with me, and I'll answer. If you did not tell the state, state political parties and related organisations and associations that minorities are being persecuted in Poland, that LGBT-free zones are being introduced, that the rule of law is being violated, that civil rights are being violated if you do not lie in this way... [[That's the truth.]] [[What truth?]] ...then these lies wouldn't be repeated. Senator, in a political discussion, as the senators have also mentioned here, very valuable is the opposition, which can severely criticize, but strongly and substantively, which can refer to facts, point to what it does not like, but does not create false narratives. When we hear these stories today about those areas where people with different sexual orientation are not allowed, because that's how it's interpreted in the West... Well, someone created this story about Poland. And it wasn't social organizations, it wasn't law and justice... [[Because there's a climate of hate. And these suicides of young people, what do they come from? What's that?]] ...that's all you were. This country is responsible for the fact that this is how Poland is spoken and thought today, unfortunately. And I think we're gonna have to face that responsibility someday... [[The voice from the room: No, that's too much.]] ...because this is something that unfortunately makes the international opinion of Poland much worse. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u154	Calm down, please. Minister, I have a request. We are already after the discussion, the discussion is closed. I would ask for such a summary of your comments, as it were, so that we do not really start the discussion again. There will be ad vocem conclusions and so on in a moment, and the discussion is over. [[Voice from the hall: They will be, they will be.]] This is a summary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Marshal Borusewicz said something I did not understand at all, he said: you have destroyed relations with Russia. To be honest, once again I find it difficult to imagine a policy of responsible Polish responsible policy, which is able to put such a thesis in a situation where Russia is pursuing a very aggressive international policy towards Georgia, towards Ukraine, towards the Baltic States, towards Belarus, also towards Poland. Marshal Borusewicz made such a decision, he decided to say that we destroyed relations with Russia because of the Smolensk disaster. With all due respect to your marshal, at the moment of the Smolensk disaster, it wasn't the Law and Justice that ruled. What it was like to explain the Smolensk disaster is not the responsibility of Law and Justice. The politicians of the camp, who then ruled, are responsible for this. Some of them are also present in this Chamber. I think it's absolutely undesirable to use a word like that. The mention of the fact of the Smolensk disaster and how this case was explained, how the investigation was conducted, what the Polish authorities did at the time, and at the same time the claim that it made our relations with Russia worse. I really think there are limits and you shouldn't cross them, because this is something that we should all have in common. The next remark that Marshal Borusewicz made Also, I think, quite important, rather symptomatic, is that whatever we want in the European Union, the European Union is changing, regardless of what we want in the European Union, European integration is getting closer. So it's not like whatever we want, historical processes happen themselves. It doesn't work that way. Of course, it is not that one country decides and can stop all these processes, but the conduct of politics on the basis of everything will happen regardless of what Poland will do, it may have been the domain of the previous government, perhaps in fact such a philosophy was based on Polish foreign policy then, we broke it off, we changed this fundamental part of the philosophy of Polish foreign policy. And if we want something to change, let's at least have the courage to say it and then build an alliance to make it change. And we've made these alliances on a case-by-case basis. In 2018, a fundamental change in the relocation of refugees. In 2019 a negative stop for Poland to choose as the head of the European Commission. In 2020 a very good budget for Poland. It is precisely because we have the courage to formulate our own thesis and that if we want something, we have the courage to talk about it, and we do not give in to the fluently certain currents that dominate European politics. Finally, the question Because there were quite a lot of them, which was also placed by the marshal, i.e. the issue of foreign visits during the pandemic, the fact that these visits are taking place. Of course it's happening. The first visit after the pandemic was announced was to visit President Duda in Washington. At that time, you also criticized this visit in this room, saying that this is an election play. And today, one of the results of this visit will be discussed in the next item of today's discussion. I think it's possible to stop today and draw some conclusions. Finally, the last question, the question of trying to respond to certain issues in foreign policy, in national policy as if it were really listened to by other countries, by those countries in whose interest it may be to use internal divisions. About this. Although I rarely agree with Marshal Kaminski Mr. Marshal said very well. This is what should guide our foreign policy and also parliamentary foreign policy. If we are dealing with matters that differ from us, including some international issues, it is advisable, however, to refrain from overly far-reaching wording. And I think the words that were in this room... I was referring to them, but under no circumstances was my purpose to attack anyone. If these words hadn't come out, there wouldn't have been any need to respond to them. I think that this might be a good summary: that in the future, if we are talking about foreign policy, we should consider, first of all, the interests of the state, not the national political interest or the party interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u156	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the article. 48 In addition to the agenda or in connection with the debate, the Speaker of the Senate shall only speak for the purpose of submitting a formal request, a reply or correcting a misunderstood or misunderstood statement. Such an occurrence may not last more than 3 minutes. So I'm going to give you the senators the floor, but I'm asking you to follow these three minutes, because I don't want us to start another debate right now. Senator Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I can understand... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] Minister... [[Voice from the room: Now it's okay.]] ...I am able to understand that my words, truth, and criticism of the misdirection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have hurt you. And I would like to stress that my speech concerned a poor assessment of the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But I have to tell you, I'm amazed at your performance. Besides, it also bears witness to the high standards that you represent in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs management. Well, you said you wouldn't react if you didn't have to, that wouldn't have happened. And five times in your speech you put shame in my mouth to be a Pole. Minister, I think it is fortunate that I read this part of my speech, because I can quote you a word for what it was like: In Europe, Poles walked with their heads raised, and to the question where are you from? What it looks like today, we all know, we see it, driving around the world. And you interpreted it and, of course, immediately commented on it in an incorrect manner. You also commented on my... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: This is exactly how every reasonable man, Senator, interprets it. Now I'm gonna let myself in.]] [[Minister, listen to me very carefully.]] I'd like you to add to the minutes that the Minister is taking away from me. You criticized the negotiations. Minister, in 2009 we negotiated a regulation on gas in the European Parliament. And then excellent cooperation with Eastern Europe's partners led to the situation that we negotiated a very good regulation. Because what came from the European Commission was very dangerous for us, for Poles and for Eastern Europe, because the next day Russia could turn on taps and blackmail, in various aspects, the European Union. You told me about those negotiations we can't do. Well, Minister, in 2014 we worked on the Posting of Workers Directive. All Members considered that it was Pandora's can, the mission impossible, so that it could be achieved in good cooperation, in negotiations where the members of the Commission worked, our government worked... ♪ We sometimes ♪ We concluded negotiations with Parliament and with the Commission at 12 p.m. or 1 p.m. and there were negotiations at the Council meeting at 8 a.m. And we were able to talk to each other at night about how to prepare for the negotiations at the Council meeting. This led to the fact that this directive was for the first time in history, for the first time and to this day the only one assessed by the five ministers of social policy of Western Europe and 7 ministers of Eastern Europe as the best document that came out of Parliament and the Council. And then what happened? During your governments, when we negotiated the revision of the 1996 directive, we see the effects. And we saw what these negotiations looked like and this cooperation. President Macron visited many countries, bypassing the wide arch of Poland, precisely because of the lack of willingness to negotiate this directive with Poland. And, Minister, we see this rising from our knees, also seeing how transporters work, how the negotiations on posting workers in transport look. We are a country that 25% exports of the European Union, transport services... They are provided from Poland. And I must tell you that the conditions under which transporters are working today are the merit of your government, precisely this magnificent getting up from their knees, partnership and excellent negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u158	Thank you very much. Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u159	Mr. Marshal, I have a corrigendum and a formal motion. The corrigendum concerns the misrepresentation of my words, which you have made. I did not say that the meeting between Prime Minister Morawiecki and Mrs Cichanouska was completely irrelevant, and I did not say that the European Union's budget for Poland is PLN 55 billion. In the latter case I said that this is PLN 55 billion less, i.e. EUR 12 billion less, and this is about the European Union budget itself. I'm sure you, like all your propaganda, count this along with the recovery fund for the desire to fight the crisis caused by the COVID, but you can't count it that way, because it's something extra... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Because this is uncomfortable for you, just because.]] The budget itself is... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: The facts are uncomfortable for you.]] [[Minister, please...]] I'm counting on you to correct both of these cases if you look at the protocol, you'll see what I've said. This is not the only misrepresentation of the statements of the Senators of the Civic Coalition that you have made, which is why I am now going to the formal proposal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask the Speaker of the Senate of the Republic to speak to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland about punishing Deputy Minister Jabłoński for the confrontational, provocative way of conducting information on the state of Polish diplomacy on 30 September 2020, for manipulating the quotes of the senators and personal attacks on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u160	Mr. Senator... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I will gladly accept this punishment if all senators are punished...]] Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński:... who unculturally interrupted...]] Minister! [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński:... during my speech.]] I give the floor. Please comply with the Senate's Rules of Procedure. You're a guest of the Senate. Mr Senator, I am sorry to say that there is no such proposal in the catalogue of formal proposals and therefore I do not put it to the vote. Mr. Senator Klich in correction mode 3 minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u161	Excuse me, I would like to request a hearing on this matter with the Senior Convention at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u162	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u163	One more corrigendum. The Minister also referred to the discussions on the foreign elections we held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and in this House during the election campaign, the presidential campaign. Well, I inform the countries who are watching us, and I remind you of the Minister, either because he wanted to forget, or he simply forgot that never in this Chamber or in those halls where we met, there were any words that criticized the activities of Polish diplomats responsible for conducting the presidential elections abroad. If they were dead, as chairman of the committee, I would react immediately, and since they did not fall, I would just remind the minister that it is not right to manipulate the public so much that it is not possible to lie so ostensibly because there are witnesses who remember it. Let me remind you that in this room and in those halls we have expressed our deep respect at least twice, and even admiration for diplomats, our ambassadors, our consuls-general, our employees, our embassies, for everything, for the effort they have put into making the elections abroad work properly. And our doubts and reservations were addressed to the political leadership of the Foreign Ministry. I remind you of that because that's exactly what it sounded like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u164	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in replica mode.]] There you go, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u165	Mr. Senator Mammytov, the rules are relentless, and the marshal is following him, and we are very pleased to hear that. The Minister and I have been involved in such a small ongoing discussion on issues related to the so-called. LGBT free zones or LGBT ideology. This is a subject that comes up every once in a while. Minister, you are an intelligent man. That's not a false compliment. And I'm sure he knows the logic. Well, these resolutions, let's call them resolutions about LGBT-free zones, as you wish... Tell me... Logically, if there's any LBGT ideology, someone's the host. Well, it must be understood that the host belongs to this group. And if this commune, this county, then the voivodeship or finally Poland is to be a zone free from LGBT ideology, then for many Poles this unfortunately means that carriers of this ideology, in short, people of LGBT, must be exterminated... [[No, it's...]] ...you must cast out. Mr. Senator Mammothov, you also know exactly what is happening in Poland. Young people commit suicide because of this, because of persecution, others are being attacked on the streets. We still have these kinds of cases. [[And where are the parents of these young people?]] Besides, it's not just that. The thing is, these people can't even... they're just scared, yeah, they're afraid to show in public that they're homosexuals. This is unacceptable. [[No, that's too much.]] And this... But how is that... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Mr. Marshal, I am very sorry, but the words were unacceptable here. If Marshal Borowski says these are LGBT-free zones, as I want them, and then he says to drive these people out...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński:... this is simply a lie.]] Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I appeal for precision.]] [[Voice from the room: Minister!]] Minister... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I appeal for precision in speeches, really...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Minister, I'm beginning to suspect that my compliment at your address was overreacted to your intelligence. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Don't you understand that such a resolution causes acts of hatred? Don't you get it? Everyone in the world understands that. You just don't understand it. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Dear Sir...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I finished the replica. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński:... to banish someone because you formulated something like this. You really need to count on your words. Even though you're a senator, there are rules for you.]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u166	Minister... [[Tell that to the parents of the children who committed suicide because of it.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: I report...]] Good. Dear Senators! [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Consider the words.]] Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Impressing me that I...]] Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński:... I am responsible for this to any extent, discrediting you as a senator and as a man.]] Thank you for the show... Thank you for... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Mr. Marshal...]] [[You're responsible for this if you support it if you don't understand it.]] Good. Thank you for giving the Senate the information. [[I don't follow.]] Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u167	Yes. I wanted, Mr. Marshal, to apply for an invitation here to the marshal's guard's room to get the minister out of the courtroom... [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...because it doesn't stop insulting us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u168	Good. We're done... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: And he made his statement and should have left this room by now.]] [[We'd have to get a couple of senators out before that.]] Good. We're done with the information. I'm overruled. We move on to the next item, and in fact we are back to dealing with item 12 of the agenda: the Medical Fund Act. Would any of your senators like to ask the representatives another question... [[He should have left the room by now...]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Let's wait a minute...]] Good. A little technical break to get the president's representatives in the courtroom. We're at the questioning stage for the president's representatives. You're on the list here, Mr. Senator, but there's no one to direct these questions to right now. [[Voice from the room: On the short list.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're back in session. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Medical Fund Act. Would any of your senators like to ask the president's representatives about this item on the agenda? Minister, there are senators here who want to ask a question. Come in, sir. Would you rather stay where you are? Well, if you're more comfortable. The first question you ask is Senator Wojciech Necessary. Are you a senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u169	Thank you very much. I'm in the room upstairs. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question that... In fact, Senator Komarnicki somehow provoked me to ask this question. We have seen more than 1 000 500 cases today, and there is a state of emergency in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Does the President intend to convene a National Security Council meeting on the pandemic of Coronavirus, which is expanding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u170	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u171	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The President called a meeting of the Cabinet Council on 4 September. This meeting dealt with the problems of the Coronavirus pandemic, and it was called primarily because of two aspects: the start of school classes and the far-reaching effects of the fight against the pandemic. So this debate took place. The President presided over the Cabinet Council meeting, which took place with the Prime Minister and ministers, and received detailed information on this matter. At the same time, the President participates, of course, through his representatives. In the work of the Government Crisis Management Team. The head of the firm and the head of the National Security Office shall be in constant direct contact with the government administration, with the Chief Sanitary Inspector and with the Minister of Health. These contacts are very, very common, and the President is informed of them. In addition, the President monitors the government's efforts in the fight against the pandemic. Well, the National Security Council formula is such a formula... The President of the Republic of Poland always decides on the need to convene this advisory and advisory body. The President shall convene such a meeting if he considers that there are grounds for such circumstances in the case in question. From the very beginning of the pandemic, we have been dealing with the full cooperation of the President and the President's services with the government in all the pandemic-related areas, of course, primarily in the area of public health, but also in relation to the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. I would like to point out that this was not a question concerning the content of the Medical Fund Act, which I, together with Minister Anna Surówka, have the honour to present on behalf of the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u172	Thank you very much. The next question you ask is Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this bill changing the drug refund bill. Well, you've changed the composition of the Economic Commission, and the handling of medical benefits funds is extremely extensive. This basic law, the Medical Fund Act, refers to the Council of the Medical Fund. In addition to this advice, there is also the Transparency Council and the Economic Commission. They're all basically doing the same thing. Explain to me, Minister, what is the justification for this change in the composition of the Economic Commission, which was proposed in the amendment. Thank you. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Mr. Marshal, if you permit... This was a request made directly by the Ministry of Health, and I see that Minister Gadomski is responding. If there was such a possibility, the Minister would answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u174	Good. I'm just gonna make sure there are no more questions for you as the president's representative. As far as I can see, there isn't. We will now move smoothly to the fact that the Minister of Health has been authorized to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think I'd focus on the senator's answers. The government's position is in line with the position of the President's law firm, and it was Minister Mucha who presented it earlier. We have not changed the composition of the Economic Commission, only because of the numerous tasks that will be generated for the broad area of medicines, we have extended the composition of this committee by additional, if I remember correctly, 3 people. This composition is extended because we really expect that innovative therapies or high clinical efficacy therapies will significantly increase the number of applications per committee. And referring to the question of the various bodies in this process Starting with the Council of the Medical Fund by, I understand, the Council of Transparency at the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification and coming to the Economic Commission, I will say that each of these bodies has different tasks in this process and in today's legislative state, as well as will have other tasks after the implementation of the Act on the Medical Fund. The Council of the Fund, so colloquially speaking, ensures the entire fund and the regularity of spending funds for the Fund, also identifies certain priorities, tasks; the Transparency Board at the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification focuses primarily on assessing the clinical value of the drug therapy concerned and actually supports the president of the Agency in issuing recommendations in this area; the Economic Commission already takes and negotiates on the basis of these documents with manufacturers or suppliers of these medicines. So, as I say, there's no change in the nature of the Economic Commission. We have to be clear: we have proposed some changes at the legislative stage, but at the meetings of the Committee on Health first, then the subcommittee, from a significant part of these changes, which would fundamentally change the functioning of the Economic Commission, we have withdrawn, recognising that such changes will already be examined in the framework of a major revision of the Refund Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u176	Thank you, Minister. We've accelerated this procedure a little bit... However, I will still read the formula according to the scenario: at present, senators can report from a place of no more than one minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Is there any other senators who would like to ask such a question? We don't have anybody? [[Voice from the room: We don't have one.]] I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I think that the Medical Fund and this project that we are discussing today is a very good example of how we can say what differences our views are about in general about health protection and solving these problems. Well, I'm gonna make a point, and I'm gonna say that I think that the problems that are in health care should be resolved in a systematic way, they should have a long-term strategy, so that they can really be carried out step by step, but above all they must be very well funded. So no fund, no program will solve the systemic problems that are in health care. What they are, we all know. What are we trying to do? To improve accessibility, to better quality, but above all to overcome inequalities, the large inequalities that are in the field of health. What do we have in the Medical Fund? Well, the Medical Fund, as the Minister said, is a special-purpose fund to deal with certain problems. I'm not saying that it doesn't matter, they're important, but the solution will only find some of the problems that this fund is targeting. So, in fact, it divides patients, it divides the whole system, shows that something is more important and something less important. There's no system solution. Such health management by programs, networks or funds does not give the whole system a sense of security. So much for my general insight into the organisation of the system. Money. Money is undoubtedly the most important element. If this special-purpose fund had actually provided extra money, as the Minister has repeatedly stressed here, I would have said: chapeau bass. If the finance minister said, "Yes, this fund is very important to us, so we will transfer money from the excavation of the measure or from the central airport that will be built in the future, and we will give it to health, because it is the most important at the moment, I would say: great. But it's not extra money. It's just money marked, money that's already in the budget, according to the 6% bill. GDP, and the money that actually goes to the Minister of Health, to his budget, and indirectly to the National Health Fund. It's one element of funding. The second, the record is up to 4 billion. If it's a difficult year, it could be 100 million. That's the whole success of the fund. Another important element, apart from money, is related to what this money is going for. Well, everything that's actually being financed right now. Prophylaxis? Is that why a medical fund has to be created so that prevention can be properly funded in local governments? Minister, the National Health Programme guaranteed prevention, described strategic objectives and gave the opportunity to pay for certain health programmes through the National Health Fund. Nothing but money. Kids... That's a beautiful idea. I really approve. Besides, the Minister even said there can't be such a situation that there won't be financial resources for the treatment of children. This is a very important declaration that came out of the Health Committee. What about benefits that involve children? After all, all these benefits are in the National Health Fund. The medical fund will transfer money to the National Health Fund to be as if the same benefits paid for the second time. Drugs. You talk a lot about innovation. Yeah, that's a very important direction. 2019, Minister, and the Refund Act lowest used in recent years... 17% which can be used for reimbursement of medicines, including innovative... In 2019, for the first time in history, 14,8... is this innovation? There's a refund bill. Please use it, please carry it out. And if she's upset, please rewrite her. She works all the time. And another element, very important. Investments, consolidation of beautiful passwords, important. The valuation proposed by the healthcare fund is not for renovations, there is no depreciation. Bravo... It's gotta be changed. So what do we do? Change the valuation of the points and change the contracts, take into account that money there. You don't need an extra medical fund to do that, you don't need to announce extracurriculars in which the minister will be involved... and I think the minister has more to do than just decide who and what beds he needs. These tasks should be decided in the regions. And that's why there were maps of needs, that's why they were analyzing what renovations, what needs are in individual hospitals to take place downstairs. But you're centralizing everything. This is the element of your policy: nothing downstairs, everything centrally, everything in the hands of the Minister of Health, even the decision on how many beds and where renovations. Only if it was all in the light of the competitions, it's okay. But you're still giving yourselves the freedom to make decisions like this outside of the competition. And that is why we are appalled that such a medical fund is being created. Of course, we will vote in favour because the patient environment, because expectations, because everyone says: extra money. No, it's not extra money. This is just a formalized program to guarantee some money in some areas. I regret that such a program has not been developed widely, that it does not have this force, that it does not act strategically and that it does not organize certain features much more widely. In my opinion, such a fund, a medical fund will certainly not improve health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The provision of additional resources to finance health protection and support for measures to improve the health and life of citizens of the Republic of Poland is now necessary, and is expected. But the proposal to create a medical fund to meet this goal and provide additional As the authors of this project assure us The sources of funding for health protection from the state-owned special-purpose fund raise a lot of doubts about the bill submitted to the High Senate. These doubts allow us to suspect that this law, in this form, is more illusory than pragmatic. And it certainly seems doubtful to achieve these goals in 2020, for which, I will remind you, it is assumed to be up to PLN 2 billion. It is worth recalling that the fund was announced by President Andrzej Duda in March this year, during the election campaign, in a situation where public opinion has upset the transfer of PLN 2 billion a year for 5 years, i.e. a total of PLN 10 billion, to public media, instead of those PLN 2 billion for cancer treatment. March this year. Unfortunately, this time the legislative expression did not start, and even there was a slowing down. Moreover, these questionable announcements of the allocation of additional funds to this fund and their use, at least at the start, are very unclear this year. Thus, we are de facto dealing with the transfer of funds, not with the allocation of new funds for this purpose. This is not enough, in the public debate, we have often recently heard opinions that the Medical Fund consumes other promises of the PiS government, namely the hospital modernisation fund and the announced investments in highly specialised medicine. The question therefore arises which areas of health protection will be deprived of funding. Another aspect: the operation of the fund is to cost us up to PLN 40 million per year, which in the planned perspective of 10 years gives the amount of PLN 400 million. Another point: the law assumes that the fund will spend up to PLN 4 billion a year. Thus, the upper limit has been set, without indicating the lower limit, which means that the government will be able to freely set the funding of the tasks defined in the sub-fund. Finally, the problem of real start-up of this fund. The law indicates in Article. 4 that the selection of projects will take place through competitions. This is quite detailed and specific deadlines for individual competition procedures are imposed. Let's do the math. Subfund for the modernisation of medicinal entities: 30 days to provide information before the start of the competition, 7 days to submit applications, 7 and 21 days to fill the gaps. It's 44 days. Plus, let's add 30 days to the bill's entry into force. Total 74 days, no number of days to be allocated to the examination of applications. As it is easy to calculate, this sub-fund will probably be available at the beginning of 2021. Another sub-fund, a sub-fund for the development of prevention: 30 days to provide information before the competition was announced, 14 days after the deadline for examining applications for the creation of a ranking list, 7 days to submit an application for a possible re-evaluation, 14 days to consider a re-evaluation application. It's 64 days. And let's add 30 days to the bill's entry into force. It's 94 days. How easy to count, February 2021. Subfund for therapy and innovation, this very important subfund for the treatment of rare diseases and oncological diseases: 30 days after the end of each quarter, the President of the National Health Fund applies to the Ministry for the transfer of grants, 14 days for the transfer of this grant. That's 44 days. Plus, 30 days after the announcement, the bill comes into force. That's a total of 77 days. What else? In order to benefit from this fund, a list of high-innovation drug technologies must be established. This is a list that will serve patients with rare diseases. This list is drawn up by AOTMIT and it takes 3 months to do so. If the work goes smoothly, it may be possible to create this list by February 2021 or earlier, maybe by January. Another point: a list of high-clinical drug technologies, which is the list that is needed to also benefit from a therapy fund for cancer patients. This list shall be established within 9 months of the date of entry into force of this Law. Perhaps it will be created by mid 2021. High Izbo, so the actual start of this program, this fund will probably happen next year. So funds for investments, modernisations, for therapeutic and preventive sub-funds, I believe, will unfortunately not be used this year. And finally, one more thing. In principle, the Law accepts the allocation of funds and their division in the framework of the competition procedures, which are described in very detail in the Article. 4. The Minister responsible for Health shall conduct the competitions in a transparent, fair and impartial manner and shall provide applicants with equal access to information on the conditions and method of selection and the selection of projects. Unfortunately, this principle is removed from the article. 9, which states that the authorising officer of the fund, the Minister of Health, may order the performance of the tasks referred to in Article. 7, in whole or in part, and this order shall be effected by agreement. That is the wording of the article. 9 poses a major threat to the transparency of the fund's finances. This mode is without criteria, non-transparent, without purpose justification, without application, without allocation algorithm and highly discretionary. So where is transparency, reliability, impartiality, competitiveness and equal access? High Izbo, the bill in this form, so written is unacceptable. In order to avoid all the risks that some of the provisions of this law bring with them, amendments are necessary. I am making such amendments at the moment in order to present them to the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u180	Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Medical Fund has its own genesis. Well, when the President signed the transfer of PLN 2 billion for the Polish Television, and these 2 billion dreamed of children's oncologists and hematologists, adult oncologists... We wanted them to be spent on oncology. Why? Because the oncology is very bad, the deficiencies are huge, especially now, in the days of Coronavirus. There are delays in diagnostics, delays in starting therapy. Catching up on the delays resulting from lockdown requires a lot of resources and a lot of mobilisation. During the presidential election campaign, the idea of a medical fund was created, which was maximum Okay, here's the It's supposed to have 4 billion a year, and this year it's going to have 2 billion. The 2 billion that went to Polish Television were intended to protect only the oncology of children and adults. In my head, the question is still raised: what benefits will Polish oncology, specifically patients, benefit now? For me, the whole working life has always been the most important patient, nothing more. And I have a feeling these drugs are gonna blur. Why? It's because Minister Fly has exchanged one breath here... Besides, when you read this bill, and I let myself read it thoroughly... From prevention, through high clinical value drug technologies and high innovation technologies, through access to high-specialist services, this is also quite amazing, because these benefits are paid from the state budget and rather not regulated For investments that are extremely expensive... What is the sum of 4 billion nationwide for any investment? Unless we're talking about funding some kind of renovation. So in me... I'm extremely worried that the cancer patients aren't gonna get any of this. It is a pity that this fund is not yet available, because instead of going to Germany for influenza vaccines, Poles would be able to ask for a vaccination refund or to bring vaccines from outside Poland, i.e. from Germany, which are relatively close. There are a lot of Poles in queues right now, including me. I'm doing this for my family, although I know the hospital will probably inoculate me. It hasn't happened so far. Coronavirus is on its way right now. We've got a lot of chaos in health care. How will this fund work in the current situation? Today, a 16-year-old woman with COVID infection rode in Świętokrzyskie from one hospital to another. Yesterday, a patient lost his life in the area of Toruń because there was no place to respirator. The data itself, the numbers themselves don't mean anything. It's all in the details, and so will the Medical Fund. To be honest, I hope that children who are currently raising money for innovative therapies on themselves.pl and through various other foundations, children who do not have access to new drugs costing about PLN 0.5 million... Going to anti-GD2 therapy costs PLN 2 million, and CAR-T cells - PLN 1 million 300 thousand. These are huge sums. And I hope that these children will actually get that this is something new, that it is not, as my previous speaker said, the extension of the boiler, which is the National Health Fund and the Ministry of Health, for another fund, but that is actually something that will help a lot of patients. When it comes to rare diseases, there's a real tragedy. But do you realize how expensive these drugs are? One such child will take a very large part of such a fund. So it looks beautiful on the paper, no, tasks from Annas to Caiaphas, a lot of them and a very wonderful - only this is feasible with such recorded means and a procession system. In my opinion, it is a good thing that there is such a path that a short path will be possible in the case of saving a sick person's life quickly get it, without a long official procedure, because a man's life has only one and once he's gone to that side, he won't come back from it. And before he turns around with any paperwork... For 45 years, I've been saying this when a bureaucratic machine faces the lives of any sick person. And to be honest, it's a good thing that there's money, although they're not really extra money, and there's a little heartache here. But I, as an oncologist, oncohematologist of children, old, working for many years, and all my colleagues from various clinics in Poland, as well as other oncologists in Poland, will say: check. We'll evaluate it in a short time, because it's first year. Everything must be fast in our country, because cancer is moving forward quickly and does not wait for what the great committee, the council, one, the other and to whom it will allocate. Either the cancer kills the sick, or the medical fund will help him. Once again, we're going to say, "I'm checking." And I will, of course, vote in favour of this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This is another act on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, as has already been said in this Chamber, and once again I thank all the presidential ministers, but also the Minister of Health, for working on this law. Any opportunity to help the sick And here we all agree, all doctors and not only them, all senators, probably all of Poland, everyone, each one is always accepted with great hope. We know that the national fund has its resources, but as a contribution, a percentage of the contribution from our ZUS contributions, and we had to find some legal opportunity to channel extra money to health care. The allegation that this is a fulfillment of the electoral promises... My God, if we only have such accusations in the framework of democracy in Poland, that we are fulfilling the electoral promises, I think it will be very good. Actually, I have... The purpose of my speech is to make one very substantive, well, perhaps not substantive, but such an amendment... I'll be right back. After listening to my honourable speakers, however, I cannot resist not to give a few more reflections on this subject. Actually, I'm already laughing. I'm not gonna tell you otherwise. It's like a mantra that's been repeated for several months: 2 billion on TV, not oncology. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish budget is not only television, it is not only oncology, it is not only medicine. It's also the Armed Forces, it's also education, it's also the economy, it's also a lot of other activities; it's enough to read the budget departments. And it must be also on television, which people need, and the sickest, and on health care, and on everything else that is included in the duties of the state towards the nation. And stop really... It's almost like a slogan: 2 billion could go to the kids and go on TV. That's as much money as ever has gone to oncology. And I remember sayings, maybe even half of the senators of the term, when the Civic Platform ruled, from a time when there were also a lot of needs and a lot of shortcomings, there was an answer to everything: well, we know that this is needed, but the government has some limitations, it needs to be understood. At that time there was full permission for all shortcomings and any negligence. No matter what happens today, it's a reason to launch an attack. It really doesn't always fit. There are also charges against these two modes. Well, it's a good thing that Senator Chybicka just pointed out that the arrangement isn't meant to serve as some sort of discretion. If it's, say, a source of certainty or some sort of... well, discretion, that's all I'm gonna do. It's so-called. It's a fast path. Today we do not know whether suddenly some child, who is not yet 18 years old, will not have a disease that has not yet been in Poland, or whether we will face something that we could not predict and which could not be recorded in the obligations of the National Health Fund regarding payment for certain procedures. Such an agreement procedure is necessary in certain cases, precisely such a rapid agreement procedure. As for certain programs, shopping, they must be thought out and here the competition road is as good as possible. So that with great hope we accept this next fund. I call it so economically, in a woman's way, it's such an extra stash in a housewife's apron where she keeps extra money, just in case, and it's money that she's gonna put away or somebody can put in that money. Mr. Marshal, I want to make one amendment, an amendment actually formal. Still in the course of the work on the Law, we noticed an error, namely in the article. 38 in item 12, instead of the word to the recipients, the word is written to the witness. This is an obvious mistake. We have to change that, and that is the amendment I am proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. It's already signed? [[Please?]] Is it signed? [[Yes.]] Good. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is important to start by saying that I am in favour of this law, and whatever form it is in. She'll come out with which amendments. I'd be in favour of the bill if there were $4 million, and I'd be in favour if there were $400,000 there. In health care, money is so lacking that any form of health funding is very necessary. So that here we might not discuss further, but we must discuss, because otherwise it would be as in this old Polish proverb that the gifted horse does not look in the teeth. Well, we can take the bill, say, there's money, let's not discuss it because we need it very much, we want to pass it on to health care. Yes, but... right here, I think, we're at a stage where you have to try to improve this project so that it's as effective as possible in its operation. First case, controversy over county hospitals. I am very pleased that the Minister, in my understanding, has changed his mind compared to what was said during the proceedings of the Health Committee, because there, asking, in my opinion, about the article. 20, where this is a limitation, where the ways of financing hospitals and the extent to which they may be... Well, there's a lot of restrictions in my mind, and I wanted to get permission from the Ministry and representatives of the President to change. At that time, this consent was not, as I understand it, now it is, and I am very happy. That is the amendment I make, it has already been tabled. The terms "care and treatment" are simply changed to the words "health care." Then we will be sure that the law does not only apply to care and medical facilities run by county hospitals, but simply to county hospitals. It will expand, I believe, according to what the Minister said today, that the intention is to finance county hospitals, not just care and medical facilities, SORs, which are located in these hospitals... So that I am very happy, we will clarify this, I think we will agree on this amendment. Come on. However, it is also incomprehensible in this article to co-finance the consolidation of healthcare establishments. There are allegations that this bill is not systemic, and it is not, although the consolidation of hospitals is a certain systemic change, because it makes hospitals less. Each consolidation so far was that of the two hospitals we made one, of the four branches... e.g. In my city with 3 branches of gynecology there were two, with 3 departments of surgery there were also two, with 2 branches of nephrology left one, with 2 branches of ophthalmology left one. It was this consolidation that caused it. And now we know that if there's a coronavirus in this one unit, then the population of 600 thousand people will be deprived of treatment in this area, because we only have 1 branch because we consolidated these hospitals once. So it's a certain system change that I'm afraid of. And the explanation of the Minister, I think, can, of course, be accepted to some extent, but they do not correspond to the practice, to what is really happening to consolidated hospitals. And that's what I'm a little afraid of, I don't know what this record is for, he goes a little beyond the normal scope of this bill, which was supposed to serve just patients. Hospital consolidation generally does not serve patients at all. Subsequently, Article 2 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Nine, We've talked about this here, and a lot of senators have reported it before me, so I won't talk about it very much. But let me say this: yes, such a system is needed, a fast system, actually, e.g. If someone gets sick. But he's even needed in health care. Hospitals are tied up with tenders, competitions, appeals, complaints, etc. And in a number of places, thousands of places in hospitals need this simplified mode. Yes, he should also be controlled. But here we're only introducing him to this fund. And I'd find at least 100 places where I really... Like Mr. Senator, who isn't here right now, the C.T.'s broken, what he was talking about, so why isn't there a speedy mode to fix this CT? Well, it's not that kind of mode, all right. Come on. I believe that the matter of this fund, in a sense, also exposes a certain reality that we know of. It has to be invoked because there is no money. You have to add money to treat your children, because these children are not being treated. I'm glad it's said because so far there's always been such a propaganda of success that everything's fine, everything's fine... Well, turns out it's not, and this fund will partially fix it. And that's a good thing. Except that such a system as it is proposed First of all, this discretion and second of all such point investments It can overturn the whole system because not all hospitals will join it, it will not be equal competition for different reasons. I won't dwell on it anymore, but there's a danger. Well, it's a 1% case. I don't know if it's necessary to set up this fund and spend, say, 40 million if that's the maximum amount. This fund is actually such a large department of public procurement: it will distribute money, run competitions, etc. It was really possible to separate between 16 NFZ branches, give each branch, say, 1 million PLN or less depending on the number of voivodship and thus, through the participation of people specialized in those working in the NFZ, to allocate these funds on the basis of these competitions. That can be done. The special appointment of a separate fund does not appear to be entirely necessary. In the end, I'll say it like this. I'm glad there's a bill anyway. I hope that the amendments proposed, now tabled to your marshal, will improve this bill so that I can vote for it quite calmly. And if we want to change the system, I'll give you a clue as to what the laws could be. E.g. the law on the extension of hospitals, e.g. the law on the realization of the valuation of health benefits, e.g. a law on the abolition of limits throughout health care. These would be systemic laws that will change the face of Polish health services. Oh, yeah, that's... Well, I'm sure something's gonna get better. I am very happy mainly that this law gives the possibility to finance the treatment of rare diseases, these expensive treatments. The National Health Fund would never have found the money without this fund. They will be marked and in these cases will help, and the situation here is sometimes It's really tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A rather short history of this fund is also a history, well, a rather unique hypocrisy in the activities of the government above all, and unfortunately also of the President. This is where the genesis of this fund was invoked. It is known that this idea arose in the president's mind when he had to 'Cause he couldn't say no to the president. Put 2 billion on Polish Television, so-called. public television. Protest against it I'm addressing Senator Chudowska here. It was not because someone ignored the needs of public television, but because this television ceased to be public television and became party-government television. Therefore, the transfer of PLN 2 billion was treated as an abuse of public funds. This is where the project was created, here in the Senate and by us pushed, to allocate this money to health, specifically to the fight against cancer. The president was in a difficult situation: on the one hand, the president and on the other hand, the public. So he promised the fund, and that promise, as we hear it, is fulfilled. It's just that there's a question... After all, the main source of revenue for this fund is budgetary resources. So there's no new source here, like for example. at the Solidarity Fund. This is, let me remind you, this fund that collects resources for the disabled. There was found an additional source in the form of tax so-called. The millionaires, and here the main supplier will be the budget. And the question is, how is it that the president sees the need for special therapies and even... it seems that at the last stage there are other things added to this fund, investment funds, some other changes in health care. The president sees it, and the government sees it. He can't see. The government didn't propose it, the government didn't do it, the president did it. All of this together is just a variety of manipulations, that's an act that spoils the entire system of state finances, obscures it. And we have more examples like that. That solidarity fund I mentioned... Well, we have the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. In the meantime, another fund is being set up on the side. In the Ministry of Justice I would recommend that you pay special attention to the president, although he probably knows that. There's this weird Justice Fund that has as much in common with justice as... well, I'm not gonna give any more examples. Anyway, he's become a private party bank of Minister Ziobra, who's giving away that money to the left and right where he thinks he is. And in this case, the President's voice is not heard, there is no criticism, although the President in this term, as he said, is no longer up to the President, but only to God and history. So I recommend, Minister Mucha, that you be told the President that he can bring this up boldly. Now I'm gonna go back to being hypocritical. She's much bigger. Namely in 2018, at the beginning of 2018, a strike of residents broke out. The residents there demanded various things related to their work, but they also demanded more spending on health care, which was more, I would say, social, wider than just their own interests. Minister Szumowski is here. And Minister Szumowski, which was indeed his success, signed an agreement with residents. Important indicators were included in this agreement, namely the ratio of health expenditures. There were listed certain entries for the gross domestic product. And then what was agreed with the residents was entered in the Health Benefits Act. So this is already a statutory requirement since 2018. And what's in it? Included is the amount of expenditure in subsequent years in relation to gross domestic product, indicators. Well, it would seem like a great success. That's how you have to act. That's how you have to raise your expenses. The point was to keep this indicator constant. It grew and reached 6% in 2024. That was the idea. Well, you could say it's closed. We are now after 3 years of operation of this law. And what do we see? In 2018, according to the law, this ratio should have been 4.78%. , which was 4.5%. These 0.28% It was almost PLN 6 billion, more than this fund will have. In the following year, 2019, the rate was expected to rise to 4.86% In the meantime, he actually fell. to 4.36%. There's a difference. 0,5% and 11 billion zlotys, so much money was not paid to health care. And for the year 2020... of course, now the pandemic has messed it all up. But for 2020 we had a plan and it was known how much the government was planning to allocate to health and what a gross domestic product is supposed to be. Well, according to the law, it should be 5.03%. And it was 4.53%. Again, almost 12 billion zlotys were missing. Together for 3 years there were 29 billion PLN unpaid. Unpaid. And now we have a fund with 4 billion zlotys, and we should be happy. Well, it's hard to worry, of course, good, very good. Only, ladies and gentlemen, this shows what the attitude towards the health of Poles looks like, about the expenditure on this health and how data is manipulated and even cheated on society. And I'm talking about it right now because, Minister Mucha, the president who signed this bill never checked it. He never said anything about it. He never asked at the Cabinet Council why this was happening. By the way, the Minister of Health should have asked that, too, but the Minister of Health is no longer here, so let's not talk about him. That's why I'm gonna end with what I said at the beginning. Everything that's going on around this fund and around the cost of health care is a festival of hypocrisy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko, Gorgon-Komor, Durlak, Bladder, Jazłowiecka and Brejza have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Wojciech Nebula, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Ewa Matecka, Senator Dorota Czudowska and Senator Joanna Sekuła. The discussion is closed. Do the invited guests want to respond to the proposals? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In response to the voices that emerged during the discussion, I will try to sum up this debate synthetically. Of course, it is true that the bill is the implementation of the announcements of President Andrzej Duda. This announcement came true in a project that was consulted on the patient's environment. If we are talking about political assessments or various critical voices, then there is no doubt that those who are most interested in it, those who are directly affected by the law, i.e. patients and parents of patients... Well, we're also talking about the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of civilizational diseases, cancer, rare diseases, including those under the age of 18. The patients of this bill expect, the patients of this bill want. They are the ones who have advocated these solutions that will be able to enter into force this year. If we're talking about the changes that could happen this year, I'm going to mention, for example. unlimited benefits, which we have already mentioned many times in this discussion. The measures to be planned for 2021, in line with those envisaged here, which have been introduced into the law in the course of Parliament's work, will be supplemented by those measures which will not be allocated in 2020. Those measures won't go away. Thus, given the specific procedures for the functioning of the strategic infrastructure sub-fund or the modernisation sub-fund, we can say that these are specific legal solutions that have been adapted to the social context which is set out in the Article. 68 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Constitution in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 provides that everyone has the right to health protection. In turn, the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 says in principio that public authorities are obliged to provide special health care to children. And this is one of the main objectives of this law, as expressed in the article. 3. I thank you for those votes of support which have been expressed here by your senators from all sides of the political scene. Thank you, in particular, for Senator Dorota Czudowska's speech. Well, it's a bill that was expected and that does things. Contrary to what has been said here, I will argue with this. This is a system solution. It is systemic in the sense that the Medical Fund Act, which deals with the State special-purpose fund, which will be the responsibility of the Minister of Health, clearly indicates the objectives pursued. This isn't about general support from the NFZ. I'm sure we'll all agree that we'd be talking about any amount. . Whether or not it would be an amount like the State You said, 400,000, 4 million, or several billion zlotys. There would probably still be doubts as to whether these measures could be distributed under the scheme. The point is to act rationally, the more that we have limited resources. We know that these resources, as the senator rightly pointed out in her speech, serve to meet different needs, not just the needs of health care. We're talking about how we want to support the treatment of rare diseases. That is also what Senator Necessary was talking about, to whom I thank you for these words. These funds will be used for different purposes. First of all, we point to children and special health care, which is related to civilizational diseases, but we are also talking about such cases when there is a need for treatment abroad. That is why I will not agree with those remarks that refer to some appearance of action, façade or illusoryness. Those words aren't fair. They're not fair either. It is natural that promises are made and words are kept. And that's how the President of the Republic of Poland works. It's not an ad hoc action either. It's not an emergency either. Such a need for an environment focusing on the needs of minors or the environment of patients with rare diseases has been mentioned for months or many years. And this discussion, which was here, on this matter carried out in the course of the work on this law, connected the patient environments with the Ministry of Health. We have also talked to the professionals involved in these processes. Yes, the truth is that patient environments, oncology environments, too, expect you to vote in favour of this bill. They're expecting us. It's from correspondence. This is due to statements at committee meetings. This is due to the work and knowledge that the President's Office also has. It is also completely unfair and unfair to refer to the situation of some alleged transfer of funds to public television. There is no such transfer of funds. No one's ever made a move like that. There was no prohibition of funds for oncology and public television. It's just a fake. I understand that there is some political rhetoric, but that was not the decision. No one made that kind of decision to limit the funds for oncology. This is also so unfair and misleading to the public, that vice versa: if we talk about the actions of the President of the Republic of Poland carried out within the framework of, for example, cooperation with the National Development Council's Health Protection Section, we will see that from the beginning of this term the President has been very determined in these matters, talking with the environment of doctors, patients, representatives of various medical professions. It raises and indicates specific initiatives. That's what I was talking about today. For example, the first Polish cancel plan, solar law or now the Act on the Medical Fund discussed by us. But in a moment's time, the High House, the Sejm and the Senate will also have the 75+ health centers bill. You know this is very important, too. It is also about the question of the reference to the article. 68. Because here Mr President spoke very clearly about those groups of eligible patients who have the right to demand specific support, special health care. I'm talking about children, pregnant women, disabled people, elderly people. And with these needs-related work also in the field of geriatrics, we are about to have a draft law on health centres 75+. So if someone here is doing politics, if someone here is hypocritical, then those who are trying to explain to the public that any funds for oncology have been limited, or those who are trying to convince us that we are going to be dealing with some bureaucratic structure here. Well, that argument is 1%. I will repeat this: we have a reduction in the appropriations that will be spent under the operating costs of the Medical Fund of up to 1%. Well, it's an indication that up to 1% ...Would we share these funds within the NFZ, or would we talk about the costs of distributing them in the framework of the Fund, it would be at a similar ceiling. And even, I can say the opposite: the costs of spending these funds via the Medical Fund are lower. We have also received such an announcement from the Minister of Health that these will, of course, be minimal costs, at the level as possible. About the upper limit... Because here, there is also a charge that the bill creates a ceiling on expenditure. This upper expenditure limit It's a mapping of the rules of the Public Finance Act. In the Public Finance Act, we have an indication that in this case we show the top expenditure limits for a given year over the years. This is a certain systematic that art defines. The 50th Public Finance Act. This will be set out annually in the Budget Act which specific appropriations will be made for the financial year in question. We'd love to. I think we're all in agreement here to make these measures as high as possible. And I hope that, as I said, we will be able to spend this money directly this year. As regards the question of Article. 20, so quite detailed, and the question of the content of the bill and the possibility of support... Well, we also say that under this article. 20 in particular, it is possible to support consolidation processes of medicinal entities, medical rescue infrastructure and the exchange of hospital beds, which may also apply to district hospitals. So here there is no change in the position as to what happened at the committee meeting, and that is also clearly advisable. Of course, it's like this. The Ministry of Health paid attention to this and perhaps Minister Gadomski would like to add here that we were deliberately talking about specific support for infrastructure development in terms of providing care and medical services. It was a procedure conscious, formulated by mapping it into the contents of the regulations. Nor is it possible to build a false thesis here that the president sees certain spheres, and the government does not see them. This law is proof of excellent cooperation between the President of the Republic of Poland and the Government, because the experts of the National Development Council, the advisors of the President of the Republic of Poland, the patient environments that appeared to us, discussed these postulates that came to us, which were presented to us, with the Ministry of Health, with the agency, with the NFZ. This is the dialogue that was going on, and of course it was in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health, because it was impossible to prepare this law without such cooperation. So these needs are visible from the perspective of the President of the Republic of Poland, and from a government perspective. Besides, we know that the funds that are budgetary resources will be at the disposal of the Minister of Health. Thank you for decoding the sense of art. 9. Yes, art. The 9th Act offers such opportunities for quick, efficient operation. We have made it very clear that this agreement, which can be concluded with the NFZ, and this NFZ appeared in the course of the discussion at the committee meeting, is a deliberate legislative procedure, which is intended to ensure that the law can be implemented efficiently. Such situations that competitions do not exist in the case in question are known to you by your practice. Art, for example. The 14th Public Health Act gives the possibility to derogate from the competition procedure and at different times, during periods of different governments such flexible solutions, as you have rightly pointed out, have been introduced. So without any politics in the background we have to say that these are good legal solutions, these are widely discussed legal solutions. Of course you're right to say that these objectives are quite broad. As you have rightly said, these measures are meant in the sense that they are thought out what this money is going for. I don't agree with those voices that if we just added that money to the NFZ, the effect would be the same. I see the approval here in the eyes of people experienced in the field of health care. Well, if we added that, it wouldn't be the effect of shifting every 1-1 dollar because there would probably be other needs, and these medical needs would always be justified. Here we are talking about specific objectives and a very clear operationalisation of the division of what goes into the Medical Fund into 4 sub-fund: strategic infrastructure, modernization of medicinal entities, the development of prevention and the development of therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. It was correct in the comments that we are proud of the solutions concerning the identification of unmet medical needs, concerning not only those unlimited benefits that I mentioned, but also the issues related to the implementation under this law of what is also the result of reflection on what is the present state of affairs with regard to the refunding process. We, by accelerating the reimbursement process, introduce a category of high-clinical drug technologies, impose certain obligations on the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. These are solutions which, in our opinion, are intended to guarantee this simplified and implemented also at the level of the voivodship rescue access to drug technologies. These are also solutions expected and postulated by patients. If all these circumstances are taken into account, there is no doubt that this law deserves support. I very much thank you senators for the discussion, for the comments made in it, but also for some general approval for the bill, because even in these critical voices, we see such approval in terms of the draft presented by President Andrzej Duda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. And a representative of the Ministry of Health would like to take the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, Minister Mucha has already responded to the majority, I hope, of the requests from the Chamber. I would like to draw attention to 3 such, one might say, the essential, the main thesis expressed in this Chamber, the false thesis. And I would really like to confront these false thesis going perhaps beyond the Medical Fund itself. The first area is primarily additional measures. Are these funds for the Medical Fund additional, or are they not additional? Are they in the minister's budget? And most importantly and absolutely falsely, what other needs will not be met or whom will we take so that these funds can go to the Medical Fund? The thesis is the most painful, because we're really not taking anything from anyone. It is not that any benefit financed today by the National Health Fund or by the Minister of Health will be created by the Medical Fund, not realized. That's extra money, because they're gonna be about extra needs. They do not relate at all to those tasks that are financed today. If we're talking about some apparent transfer of funds to the NFZ... This isn't about appearances. We are talking about what has been operating in the system for years about the limitation of benefits, about contracts on which certain limits are imposed, and here we are talking: we are moving away from these limits in the treatment of children. These are not apparent shifts, these are additional measures that ensure that today any provider of child benefits can implement them in unlimited mode. Besides, we have adopted such a policy as a government for some time: unlimited benefits in cataracts, endoprotesoplastics, imaging diagnostics. Since this year in 4 groups of specialized benefits. Well, these are the postulates which, if I recall correctly, were expressed by Senator Necessary to introduce a general limitlessness. Probably we can't afford a general and common today, but we've already introduced some of these elements, critical from the patient's point of view, unlimited. This bill brings in more. I'd also like to fight the myth that it's actually in 6%. He's already in the health minister's budget. I think a lot of people in this room remember what the health minister's budget looks like, how much money there is, how much money there were a few years ago. For a reminder: the budget of the Minister of Health a few years ago was PLN 8 billion. In previous years, it was 9 and 11 billion, depending on how it worked out. There was no free money for the Medical Fund, these 4 billion are indeed an additional accent. The following year, in 2021, Senator Małecka-Libera mentioned this, the budget will be increased by 11 billion. Yeah, 23 billion zlotys will go extra from the state budget to health care. That's never happened. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: 6% of this results from the bill.]] That's never happened. I know, Senator, that's 6% of the bill. I agree. I am very pleased that I am a representative of the government which established this law. Besides, if I remember correctly, the senators were also in agreement with the validity of this bill. And I hope that, apart from any political dispute, there was agreement on its acceptance. I agree, we made a commitment, and now we're doing it. And this is where I'd really like to confront myself... And I would really like to ask Marshal Borowski not to mislead the senators and the public that there are some billions missing from health, that, God forbid, we are not implementing the bill on 6% expenditure. We implement it, implement it in accordance with the provisions that were expressed in agreement with the residents, were adopted by Parliament and signed by the President, i.e. 6% of the Act. GDP. [[Voice from the room: Nothing's missing.]] There we actually referred to a reference value. I understand that maybe there are other expectations today about this, but, as I say, the Sejm and the Senate, it seems to me, quite unanimously adopted the bill with those conditions that are. What's more, we're carrying out this bill with effect. In the State budget Despite the fact that the expenditure plans for 2017, 2018, 2019 have established certain values in each of these periods The health expenditure exceeded that reference value. In each of these periods, the state budget contributed to overall health expenditure. It was either a grant or an increase in the capacity of the National Health Fund and the allocation of funds to its reserve fund: PLN 1 billion in 2017, PLN 1 billion in 2018 800 million in 2019 amounting to PLN 2 billion 700 million. Really, show me when in 25 years or 30 years of history there was such a funding of the state budget to the National Health Fund, to the health sector. We did it, even though we didn't have to, even though we were fulfilling this reference value. Finally, I will refer to a certain appearance of these measures, how big they are or how small they are. Senator Chybicka said, "What are 4 billion PLN for investments?" Well, I'd like to dispel that myth a little bit. If we look at the EU funds that we have a strong conviction about this, we will see that they have supported and changed the area of infrastructure in health care for many years, the conditions of the Operational Programme - Infrastructure and the environment - a 7-year programme - then we will see that its size is PLN 3.3 billion. The value of all EU funds addressed to the health area for the years 2014 and 2020 is 6 or 7 years of implementation, i.e. PLN 10 billion. If we put together PLN 10 billion in 6- or 7-year mode with PLN 4 billion per year, from which we assume that PLN 2 billion will go into the infrastructure, then there are so far such general, squishy assumptions, it is not possible to say that this will be a financial injection that is invisible from the point of view of the infrastructure of the sector. For the Minister of Health, it will be very important, and it will probably increase our capabilities by more than 100%. Thank you very much. [[In mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u192	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u193	Well, Minister, gentlemen shouldn't discuss facts. The agreement with residents made it clear what items are taken into account in the calculation of health expenditures to gross domestic product. These were 4 items: the National Health Fund, part 46 of the budget, Health, then Chapter 851, on health protection in other parts of the budget, and post-graduate traineeships and specialisation. That's four positions. I collected these data from the budget laws that came to us, and Minister Szumowski responded to my interpellation and provided this data for one of the years in which I could not get it out of the budget law. So this data is verified. The gross domestic product is known, also resulting from budget laws, so there is no doubt here. Dividing these 2 sizes by yourself is not a problem. And unfortunately, there's a difference. And that difference was every year. I'll tell you what the secret is. Namely, the government claims that everything is okay, because it accounts for health expenditure from these 4 items in a given year not to GDP this year, but to GDP from 2 years ago. And like that... You call it a reference value or something. Well, the residents have made it clear that this is Sorry, I don't usually use strong words Just cheating. And that was not the case for 2017 in 2019, 2020 in 2018 and so on. or only until 2017, until 2017 at all times. Besides, if you accept it and do it like that, there's no way you could have reached 6% in 2024. because this will be a reference to 2017 and not to 2024. Of course, this year, in 2020, the relative result will be greatly improved because GDP is falling. It is still difficult to say, if, but probably about the 3-4% It could fall. Therefore, with the increase in nominal expenditure, this result will, of course, be greatly improved, but that does not mean that this will improve in health care. Besides, what health care looks like today outside, let's just say... it's even hard to say right now, but if we're looking at the issue of all these normal advices and so on, then we see how underinvested she is. But it's clear, and I don't want to pick it up. I'm just going with this: on these indicators, you're manipulating the state. And those 29 billions just weren't there at the time. I suspect that if they were, they could be aimed at matching, for investments, for various purposes, which would allow the current pandemic to go a little easier than we are going through right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u194	Good. It's still an exception for the Minister, a replica for the replica, but literally two sentences. Okay, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u195	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One sentence, indeed. Mr. Senator, this is neither a secret nor a manipulation. I wouldn't want us to leave this room with such conviction. The Minister of Health implements the law adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. There's a reference to GDP two years ago. We're doing what's written in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u196	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else from the government, the president? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation, signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 206 and the Commission's reports In printed matter No 206 A and No 206 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u197	Dear Marshal, High Senate. On 28 September 2020, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union dealt with the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation. The discussion at the committee meeting was quite lively and not so much concerned the objectives of the agreement as its terms and conditions. The objectives of this agreement, as the government representative said, are to increase by at least 1 thousand soldiers and personnel of the U.S. Army or the U.S. Armed Forces to be accurate, in Poland and the construction of American installations or bases, among others. in Poznań, Drawsk, Wrocław, Grace, Powid, Lublin or Żagań. As a rule, it is an extension of existing installations in such a way that these bases allow a rapid increase in the number of American personnel to around 20,000 soldiers in a crisis situation. With regard to these objectives, it was agreed during the discussion that they were worthy of support and in line with the interests of the Republic of Poland. However, during the discussion, the senators and invited experts raised some doubts about the terms of the agreement. They concerned the following cases. The first issue is jurisdiction over American personnel, American citizens who are to be stationed in Poland under this agreement, and a change compared to the previous 2009 agreement. Because that agreement tells verbatim that Poland exercises such jurisdiction, but at the request of the American party it will be willing to waive it, while the current agreement says the opposite: in this agreement Poland renounces this jurisdiction and will restore it when it considers it necessary to pursue its interests. The second issue that caused controversy is that there is no need to comply with Polish law or to agree on the basis of American laws, according to which these bases will function, and in particular will be built these bases. Another issue which aroused controversy is the lack of preference of Polish companies in contracts. There is no discrimination against Polish companies, which I would like to stress. There is a record that Polish companies will have the same rights as foreign companies, there is no preference for Polish companies when building these installations. The issue that we discussed a lot is the very cost of stationing American troops, especially logistics costs. According to the previous agreement, these costs were covered by the US party, according to this the logistics costs, daily, are borne by the Polish party. According to the Ministry of Defence, this is to cost about PLN 500 million per year. I would like to stress, because it was also the subject of the conclusion that this cost, this 500 million PLN, does not cover the planned investments. It is only the cost of stationed in Poland of about 5 thousand, perhaps more in the future, American soldiers. If I can sum up in one sentence what the committee has discussed, it will be a quote from the chairman of the committee, Mr Bogdan Klich: in total, the agreement is more favourable to the American side and less favourable to the Polish side than the similar agreement of 2009. Despite these reservations, I would like to inform the High Senate that the committee recommends ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America of 15 August 2020 by a majority, 1 senator abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The National Defence Commission met yesterday and examined the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020. At the beginning of the meeting, a representative of the Ministry of Defence explained the assumptions and main points of this agreement. I will not discuss it, it has just been discussed, I just want to add what has not been said. This agreement changes the way the U.S. troops are stationed, it will be a permanent presence of troops, which is important, i.e. soldiers with families, civilian workers, etc. You also pointed out the benefits of signing this agreement, the commitment of the Polish State to this agreement, namely geopolitical benefits, i.e. raising the rank of Poland, the defence benefits associated with innovation also, the benefits, I would call it military, i.e. the construction of infrastructure, as well as the economic benefits both in the nationwide aspect of the presence of U.S. troops in this number will testify to stability in our country, and where it is stable... As well as in local terms, for the local market, suppliers of goods, services that will be used in those places where troops are stationed. The Minister also explained, or actually demented several types, I would call it, the fake news that has recently appeared in the literature related to this agreement. I will list 3 of these fake news: the suggested lack of jurisdiction of Poland over US soldiers, suggested or hypothetical extraterritoriality of bases and finally the fact that this agreement will cost us a lot; the sum of PLN 500 million a year has fallen to maintain the bases. A representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs then spoke and stressed the importance of the agreement. He pointed out that this would increase the level of scaring off the eastern NATO flank, that the presence of U.S. troops in Poland would be increased and lasting, and that this would be the fulfilment of the 3 declarations of the presidents of the United States and of the Republic of Poland from 2018 and 2019. He also explained why we should use the so-called mode. major ratification, i.e. ratification with prior authorisation in the form of a law. The legislator did not make any legislative comments during the committee's deliberations. The Senators then spoke: Jerzy Wcisła, Dorota Czudowska, Bogdan Zdrojewski and Robert Mamytkow. Most of them asked questions asking for explanations. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski had a longer statement. This was then new, at least at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, the Member spoke. At the meeting of our committee, a Member, Mr Grzegorz Braun, appeared from the Confederacy circle, which in such an emotional way, with a large, I would call it expression and using large quantifiers presented his and his group of allegations to this agreement. They mostly coincided with those presented in the Seym. Later, a representative of the Ministry of National Defence referred to these allegations. The discussion was then closed and there was a motion for a vote. Seven senators responded to the deal, no one opposed it, one senator abstained. The National Defence Committee recommends that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u200	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, sir. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the ministers Wawrzyk and Ociepa like to speak on the bill? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? I don't see any volunteers. I have two questions for Minister Lorenzo. First. Tell me what the matter of extraterritoriality is. Have the soldiers been exclusive, or have the bases been shut down... That's the first question. Two. What costs will we incur in connection with these bases? It's about investments and some other costs if they are. I'd ask for that information. You will of course answer Minister Wawrzyk. Minister Ociepa, if there's anything he wants to add, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As far as the issue of extraterritoriality is concerned, this is one example of the duplication of information in the public space that is not covered by the contract. According to this agreement, Poland retains its full sovereignty. It is not enough that American troops and civilian personnel are obliged to comply with Polish law. There will be no so-called. extraterritoriality in both cases, whether personal or territorial. And we need to be informed by the U.S. side about all activities related to the operation of the base. Thank you very much. As far as costs are concerned, I think the Ministry of Defense...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u202	Okay, but I still have a question for you about that, just so I'm clear. If an American soldier from these bases commits a crime, what jurisdiction will he be subject to: American or Polish?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u203	If the Polish party determines that the matter is of particular importance to it, then it will be subject to the Polish jurisdiction. But it's up to us to take a step on this, and we're not dependent on the American proposal on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u204	Thank you, Minister. And now it's a cost thing. What costs did the Ministry of Defense calculate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as costs are concerned, we are talking about those that we are already able to estimate today. They refer to the so-called. logistical support for the presence of American troops in Poland and we estimate them for about PLN 500 million per year. These are costs related to providing free accommodation, meals, annual fuel consumption, as well as selected support elements in the storage of equipment and weapons and the operation of the infrastructure used. So much for such fixed costs. But, of course, we also undertook to upgrade or build new facilities on these bases. These costs will be spread over time and today it is difficult to talk about financial estimates. But these actions absolutely fit into the priorities of modernization of infrastructure under the Ministry of National Defence, which is, to put it simply, we would still want to modernise these objects, because we want as many soldiers to be in the territory of the Republic of Poland as possible, so that as many of these soldiers here exercise, of course, in the first place Polish, but also allies, also from the United States. So these are investments which will later remain in the territory of the Republic of Poland, will remain the property of the Polish army and at its disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u206	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The two rapporteurs have presented the proceedings of both committees in a fair manner. I must say that it has been a long time since there has been such a ratification which would cause such a discussion, because it has not been such a ratification, the consequences of which would be so important for the security of Poland, nor has there been such ratification, the effects of which would be so long-term. Therefore, what we also talked about at the previous point, means that the security of Poland depends not only on our own defence capabilities and security policy, but also on ally support, I think everyone in this room agrees that the presence of American troops is simply necessary for the security of Poland. The more American soldiers, the more American equipment on Polish soil, the better it is for the security of Poland. Especially in a situation that has changed dramatically since 2014, the security situation in our immediate environment. I mean the Russian invasion of Crimea and the invasion of Donbas. Because here it turned out that the model of cooperative security, the one that effectively, together with allies and partners, we have put into effect since the break-up of the Soviet Union, has broken violently. This security model was introduced into the strategic document, the NATO strategic concept adopted in Lisbon in November 2010, but was also practiced for two decades. I am talking about cooperation between NATO and NATO as a whole and partners in Eastern Europe. This model was based on cooperation, not confrontation. It was based on the assumption that dialogue was more effective than a direct collision. This model collapsed due to the Russian invasion in 2014, and this security architecture has not yet been rebuilt in any way. Thus, the more reprisals on the eastern front of NATO, the more allied troops in the Republic, the safer this Republic is. Let's just say it's better to pay the country's safety with money than with blood. I believe this strongly and therefore, together with the Foreign Minister Radosław Sikorski, of course under the auspices of Prime Minister Donald Tusk, we continued this cooperation. In 2008, Minister Sikorski signed a declaration of enhanced strategic cooperation with the United States. It was this famous August 2008 Sikorski-Rice declaration. A base agreement was also signed in Redzików. This base is built so that the elements of the U.S. defence system are present on Polish soil, in accordance with the principle that the more American soldiers and American equipment in Poland, the better it is for Poland. Well, you should add a spoon to that, kid. We regret the fact that the Government of Law and Justice has not so far led to the completion of the construction of this centre. The base was supposed to be set up a few years ago, and the delay is already three years old. As we heard at the committee meeting, work should be completed in 2021, but this will still be delayed. In 2008 we started talking to the American side about the principles of stationing American soldiers in Poland. Such rules were negotiated and signed in December 2009. I am talking about this because one of the questions asked at the committee meeting was why these rules are being replaced by new rules at the moment. In my deep conviction those rules were a little better for the Polish side, and a little worse for the American side. So that question is logical. We heard from Minister Ociepa that the residence of additional American soldiers on Polish soil was dependent on changing these rules. We accept this with sadness, but we also understand that the growing military potential of the United States in Poland must be occupied with additional costs. Our doubts arise from a change in the mechanism of criminal jurisdiction, i.e. that according to this agreement which we are considering today, the Republic of Poland gives priority to criminal jurisdiction in the hands of the United States, while, of course, retaining the right to withdraw from it in special cases. I believe that the mechanism contained in the previous agreement, according to which the Republic of Poland maintained the primacy of criminal jurisdiction, and at the request of the United States could waive that priority In special cases, we were able to take such requests kindly It was a better mechanism. I'm afraid it's the rules in the article. The 27 previous agreement, which talks about financing in full by the US side of logistics support for US soldiers on Polish soil, was also better for us, because it is better if it is financed by a guest than the host. I will remind you that this is about accommodation, repair services, drinking water, food, fuel, land, sea and air transport, media and services, medical support and services, airport services and other appropriate, mutually agreed support. Now for the same... for similar, not the same, but for similar catalog of services will pay Polish page. I'll say it again: we'd rather have our American guests pay for this kind of logistics service. This is the few doubts we have about the shape of this agreement, but they do not change the fact that the agreement increases the security of our country by ensuring that more soldiers and American equipment can be stationed in Poland. Therefore, as Senators of the Civic Coalition, the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and as far as I am hearing it correctly, we support this agreement in the National Defence Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u208	Thank you, Senator. There's no more calls. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed and Gabriel Moravian-Staneck have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u209	The meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate in the Medical Fund Act will be held in room 182 at 18.15. [[Voice from the room: What time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u210	6:15. Dismissed until 7:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 22 to 19 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u211	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We are returning to the second agenda: amendment of the Rail Transport Act. The Committee on Infrastructure has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 205 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Looks like somebody from the remote is still logging in. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Emergency Notification System. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments Senator's printing No 204 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. One of your remote voters... Take a look at if you have a good connection, because we always have to wait 20 seconds for the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Emergency Notification System. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2019 together with the Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2019. I would like to remind you that a committee report on this matter was presented yesterday and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committee has tabled a draft resolution in which it requests that the report of the National Radio and Television Council be rejected "Print No 146 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Culture and Media, in which the committee requests that the report be rejected. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 50 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. We are back to discussing item five of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019. I would like to remind you that a committee report on this matter was presented yesterday and that a discussion was held. We therefore proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee has tabled a draft resolution in which it requests that information on the activities of the National Media Council be rejected Print No 144 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Culture and Media, in which the committee requested the rejection of the information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 49 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the information of the National Media Council. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Media Council. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 211 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Media Council. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 207 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance recommends adopting all amendments, all 20 amendments. At the same time, we ask that the legislative amendments Nos 1 and 1, 6, 9, 13, 15 and 20 be voted together. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u213	Did the senators of the applicant... [[All amendments, above all amendments, in favour.]] Yes, all the amendments, the committee recommends voting in favour. [[Voice from the room: In the block...]] Do the senators of the applicant still want to speak? I inform you that Senator Krzysztof Frost and Senator Jan Hamerski have submitted their applications. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. If the High Senate authorizes me, I'm not going to read the reasons for the amendments, I'm going to read their numbers. If I don't hear any objection, I'll take it that the proposal has been accepted. Amendments 1 and 17 should be voted together... [[Mr Marshal, maybe first of all this proposal to vote together on the legislative amendments I tabled.]] Good. I'm sorry. We will start with these legislative amendments. So, together, we vote on the amendments adopted unanimously by the committee. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance to make it clear In other words, I suggest we vote block-by-block on amendments Nos 1 and 4, 6, 9, 13, 15 and 18 and 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 5 eliminates the provision to maintain increased VAT rates in subsequent years and sets out the conditions for a return to basic rates. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 54 votes against, 40 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 94 votes against, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] Attention, amendments 8, 14 and 19 should be voted on together. These amendments extend until the end of 2020 for carriers already licensed, excluding parts of the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 47 votes against, 46 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted in favour, 93 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Correction... [[Voice from the room: Now the whole thing.]] That's the whole thing, yeah, actually. We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 94 votes against, no one against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. We are returning to the ninth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments of Senate prints No 212 A and 212 B. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act on Senate Print No 213 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 2 and 6 should be voted on together. They aim to take into account the legislative consequences of amendments to the Foreigners Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 3 seeks to ensure the substantive consistency of the provision added to the Foreigners Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted in favour, 97 votes against and no one against and one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Attention, amendments 4 and 5 should be voted on together. They aim to clarify the elements of decisions issued under the Foreigners Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 7 seeks to clarify that the implementing decision referred to in the annexed paragraphs to the Tax Tax Act is issued by the Council of the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Attention, amendments 8 and 11 should be voted on together. They aim to refrain from making amendments to the Development Cooperation Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 54 for, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 9 aims to ensure that the sole consequence of the employer's obtaining information on the conviction of an employee employed before the date of entry into force of the Act, who is not a member of the Civil Service Corps, is that the final judgment for a deliberate offence... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. I'm in trouble with the voting device.]] Please support your marshal with technical assistance. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, you've got to go too far. [[It's working.]] Does it work? Good. Let me remind you that we are voting on Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 10 seeks to adapt the reference to the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 25]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure took place during the meeting and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 208 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees mentioned by your Marshal at its meeting on 30 September 2020 have examined the proposals made during the debate on 29 September 2020 on the proceded act and present the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in point II of the proposals Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u215	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. I would like to remind you that the conclusions during the discussion were presented by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck and Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 47 votes against, 50 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] We are voting on the amendments tabled to reject the proposal for a law without amendments. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 2 modifies one of the conditions necessary to conclude an agreement between the municipality and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted against, 2 against, 95 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 3 aims to limit the scope of data and information collected in the Central Register of Buildings, and narrows down the catalogue of entities to which data from this register will be made available. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 97 senators, 46 votes for, 48 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 4 ensures linguistic correctness of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Attention, amendments 5, 9 and 11 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 10. These amendments introduce a 3-year period of vacathio legis with regard to the provisions on the functioning of the Central Register of Buildings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 1 for, 97 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 6 clarifies the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 52 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Adoption of Amendment 7 will result in an appropriate modification of Amendment 11. Amendment 7 eliminates an unnecessary adjustment provision, which is formulated using a return, with regard to the Central Issue Register of buildings, which is an electronic data collection. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 1 for, 97 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 8, bearing in mind that the Environmental Guarantee Fund is a bank account and is not shown to be independent in legal transactions, removes an unnecessary provision of a nature that adjusts the creation of that fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted. They were all for... Everyone was against it, sorry, correction. Everyone was against it. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 9 has already been put to the vote. Amendment 10 amends the provision on the entry into force of the Act, taking into account the deletion from its content of the article. 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 1 for, 97 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments taken over. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Medical Fund Act. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 210 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission, at its meeting of 30 September 2020, considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 30 September 2020 on the Medical Fund Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the conclusions set out in points 1 and 37. All amendments have been voted out, accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-30-senat-16-2.u217	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you submitted proposals to Senator Wojciech Nebula, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Ewa Matecka and Senator Dorota Czudowska. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. If the High Chamber permits, I will not read the justification for these amendments, but give their numbers. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes against, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] Attention, amendments 2 and 4 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 votes against, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] Attention, amendments 3, 32 and 37 must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Attention, amendments 5 and 31 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 6. I'm asking for a vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] Attention, amendments 7 and 13 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 8 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 50 votes against, 42 against 42, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] Attention, amendments 9 and 14 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Attention, amendments 11 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Let me remind you that we voted on Amendments 13, 14 and 15 together, so we are voting on Amendment 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 17 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 52]] Attention, amendments 20, 21 and 28 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 22. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 23. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 24 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, 51 against, 44 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 26 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 58]] Minister Krasce, I remind you of the vote. This one doesn't... [[Voice from the room: Minister fights...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Amendment 27. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 29, because we voted on Amendment 28 together. Amendment 29 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 30 seeks to define... No, no. Okay. I'm out of my mind. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 53 votes against, 42 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 61]] Let me remind you that Amendments 31 and 32 have already been voted on. So now we are voting on Amendment 33, which is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 34. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 35. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 36. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Medical Fund. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation, signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Defence have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amending Senate prints No 206 A and No 206 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Comfort and Senator Sekuła... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 91 votes against, no one opposed, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are continuing this meeting on 13 October. I'm declaring a recess until October 13th, until 9:00 p.m.... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Or 10:00? [[I think I'm shutting down...]] No, this is not a new sitting, this is a continuation. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you a safe journey home. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 19]]
