ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the Senate meeting room will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. In room 217, the list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. At the same time, I ask Senator Richard Świlski to perform the duties of Senator Secretary in Room 182. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, yesterday one of the greatest Polish composers in history died, Krzysztof Penderecki, conductor, professor of the Academy of Music in Cracow, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the deceased. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Thank you. I would like to inform you that at its eighth meeting on 28 March 2020, the Sejm rejected all the amendments of the Senate to the budget law for 2020. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the fourth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of you raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next meeting. I would particularly like to welcome Mr Morawiecki to our meeting. [[Applause]] Hello, ministers, Minister Emilewicz and Minister Cieszyński, and all the other guests. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would like to inform you that work is still ongoing on the preparation of a report on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws; print No 96. Once a report has been drawn up, the Senate order will be supplemented by this item without delay. I propose that the first and second paragraphs be considered, even though the prints on these laws have been provided at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. I also inform you that the Councillors' Law and Justice Club has filed an application... Councillors? Senators! ...the Senators' Law and Justice Club has requested that the Senate's Rules of Procedure be amended to include, in general, a remote vote. This subject was raised at the Senior Convention meeting and I would like to make an explanation to you in this respect. The Senate Marshal is absolutely not against the online vote, provided that all necessary security procedures for such a vote are fulfilled in the case of such an esteemed institution of high prestige, which is the Senate of the Republic of Poland. That is why I immediately gave effect to this proposal, despite the referral to the Rules of Procedure. We asked the Ministry of Digitalization and the Ministry of Home Affairs to determine the conditions for the safe organisation of such a system. It must be realized that our decisions sometimes weigh millions of people or that we are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars. So that the security of online voting must be ensured, we need to know that the Senator is voting, we need to know that the server is dedicated, we need to know that the link is safe. There are many safety requirements in this area, but we will ask the most extensive specialists in Poland. I would also like to inform you And we also discussed this at the Senior Convention meeting. That if for reasons only health, epidemics, because it may happen that many of us will be in quarantine or fight the coronavirus... In such a situation, after consulting the Seniors Convention, we will be able to organise an online vote once more easily and such work has also been undertaken by senate IT specialists. So that if there is such an urgent need for health, the Sejm will gather and we will have to call the Senate quickly, then such opportunities will be created. To conclude, I would like to say that the main and chief way of sitting the Senate is to hold a plenary session, but if, in the fight against a terrible pandemic, there is a need to organise a remote voice room, whether it is a one-off voter, so as not to say provisional or permanent, with the inclusion in the Rules of Procedure Both these modes will be carried out in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I would like to say, in agreement with Mr Martynowski and Marshal Karczewski, that there will be no obstruction if we are forced into an epidemic, health situation, to hold such a form of sitting. This will be an exceptional situation, it will be a situation which will be avoided as soon as possible, but if necessary, such a meeting will be held in a slightly provisional form or, if it is a longer perspective, in a permanent and 100% professional form. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the ballots were put next to the voting positions in the rooms in your seats. Please check to see if you're all sitting at your designated location. I ask the senators to sign up for questions and votes in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would like to remind you that Senator Alexander Szwed is the secretary in the sitting room, in room 217, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, and in room 182, Senator Ryszard Świlski. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. Please do not press the microphone button until the Speaker's Marshal has given the floor in accordance with the order of applications, as usual. We ask you not to move between the salons. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. This is how we were advised for sanitary and epidemiological reasons to speak from the place, not from the Senate stand, which we do in a unique way. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on the health system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. The text of the Act is contained in print No 94 and the report of the Commission In print No 94 A. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs... Mr. Marshal, the Prime Minister has come forward and would like to speak. Of course. Thank you very much. In accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, members of the Council of Ministers, and even more so the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, have the right to speak outside the order. You're welcome, Prime Minister. Or from here? It would be better from there, because we want to apply a level playing field for all senators and ministers. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The current situation we are facing is an unprecedented situation. This is because a global crisis is beginning, which is leading the whole world, European and Polish economy. We are facing challenges that our predecessors have not faced, because this crisis that is coming is very specific, very special. It does not apply only to the supply or demand side. Economists often describe crises as an asymmetrical demand shock or an asymmetrical supply shock, or a raw material crisis, or a public finance crisis, as in 2011 and 2012 or a financial sector crisis, as in 2007 and 2008. This crisis is quite different because it has, in an unexpected way to anyone in the world, touched very deeply the economic fabric itself, which concerns both entrepreneurs and citizens, workers, just as it concerns local governments, national budgets, as well as budgets of international organisations, and surprised everyone to the same extent. From this you can draw the first basic premise. If you all agree. And I think it is, because this information, this knowledge, is getting more and more into the consciousness of all the citizens in the world. This multi-level economic shock, which we are facing, must also be adequately addressed through a multi-faceted, multi-faceted response on the basis of appropriate policy mix, an appropriate mix of monetary, fiscal, regulatory or sector-specific policies in the real economy... So it's been a while since this crisis started, but it's already been the main commentators The most well-known economists, research institutes, economic institutes agree on these two issues. Firstly, that this crisis is absolutely specific and exceptional, and secondly that the response must concern the real economy, the financial system, but also the budgets of states, local governments and public budgets, and in particular the concerns about jobs, and I will say two more words about it in a moment. By entering into more detailed solutions, I will say that we are betting on the following scenario. In the next few weeks, months, I hope to summer This crisis will continue to intensify in many places around the world. This is highly likely. Better always in the scenarios planned by governments By our government to emerge from more pessimistic assumptions, and so we do. If that happens, it's summer or autumn. I hope that, at the latest after the vaccine has been invented, the economy will be roughed up, beaten up, but it will be back to its pre-crisis state, free to return to its pre-crisis state. If we take this assumption for granted, we need to save as many jobs as possible, as many businesses as possible, as businesses that are capable of producing capacity, service capacity... Because if they lose those abilities, it's this crisis. 'Cause he's also a race, who's the first and better to deal with the consequences of it. It will mean that other entrepreneurs from the industry can enter the market, take market share, which was previously owned by the company, in this case by the Polish entrepreneur. This in turn would mean that the market share of each of our sectors has been built for 30 years. The share of the European market, the global market share built by individual entrepreneurs, can be reduced very rapidly. It would be an irreparable loss. That's why today's economy is frozen, frozen, paralyzed, economy all over the world. And ours was also frozen in the wake of the sanitary and epidemiological rigors that we implemented a few weeks ago. It must be ready to go back to the growth path as soon as possible from this relative sleep state. Let's imagine a scenario now. Even if one of you has never been involved in practice, personally with the operation of the company That the entrepreneur is releasing half of the employees or 3/4 of the employees. Abstracting from the fact that it is a tragedy, a huge tragedy for these people and the need to incur additional expenditure from the state budget, we are faced with the situation that this entrepreneur is losing production capacity, losing production capacity and losing market share, thus irretrievably losing what from 5, 10, 25 years or sometimes even longer, since the fall of the commune, he has tried to build with the capacity. That's why it's so important to take care of jobs. Therefore, when this crisis, the health crisis in front of us, turns into a financial crisis, an economic crisis, an economic and social crisis, it is so important to ensure the maximum possible for the budget and the minimum mechanisms necessary for entrepreneurs and workers to survive and rebuild the economic potential of businesses. If anyone has doubts about the extent of the crisis, in which we all suddenly find ourselves, I would like to highlight a few basic data that have seen the light of day literally today and a few days ago. Further forecasts for the German economy indicate that it is likely to be in the recession at the level of 5% up to 10%. I don't remember the German economy being in such a recession since World War II, I don't remember. I remember. .5% , it was during the last crisis in 2009. But Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ? I don't remember. I don't just don't remember. I do not remember from the history of World War II such a deep recession of one year or longer in the economy of the country, which is our main partner, because 27% our products and services are exported to Germany. In the United States, the forecasts of the 2 most reputable or most reputable financial institutions in the world speak of a recession in the second quarter at the level of 18% and 14%. Let's take out the average, it'll be 16%. This is a recession of an incomparable nature with anything at least since 1929, since 1930. The number of people applying for unemployment benefits in the United States is without a small 3 million 400 000, almost 3 million 400 000. The previous record fell in 1982, it was 800,000 or eight hundred and tens of thousands, i.e. more than four times less. When an economist sees such data, he really needs to think very deeply about the repercussions for the world economy. And now let's imagine that we would have been through this crisis relatively well and this disease curve, which is a primary determinant for us, is also a determinant of economic decisions, financial and fiscal decisions, I think that also monetary for the National Bank of Poland, an independent Polish bank, to flatten itself. However, our Western European partners are experiencing a deep economic collapse today, even deeper than in Poland, as evidenced at least by the forecasts I mentioned. Just see the forecasts for the Italian economy, the Spanish economy, they are dramatic this year, next year. In a situation where 80% our export goes to these countries, to Western Europe, we can also imagine what this means for Polish exporters, and this is about 45% Polish GDP, approx. PLN 900 billion Polish exports, approx. PLN 900 billion Polish imports. So this crisis, which has this specific characteristics, because it has already ripped apart, and unfortunately every day, like cancer, the economic structures are getting more and more rolling, the supply chains, the production chains, the technological lines, it simply destroys what entrepreneurs have been building, linking between individual economic actors in different countries of the world for years... That is why your decision today, the Senate's decision, is so important that it is made as constructively as possible and as quickly as possible because of the reality that surrounds us. Because the reality that surrounds us can be compared to a disease that we do not yet know we are experiencing, but it already deeply affects us. We may even know about her, but we don't realize her reach, her horror. Now, every day, entrepreneurs decide whether to fire or not. Every day, I dare risk such a hypothesis. At least 10,000 people may lose their jobs by the fact that an anti-crisis shield is not yet adopted. The solutions we have proposed there, with which, I understand, the High House has had the opportunity to get acquainted with, which she will be able to hear in detail, are solutions that were proposed as one of the first in the world. I'm built on the fact that very similar solutions some have introduced after us. Some have done it before us. I do not participate in any race for priority palms here, and I would very much like to listen if someone has any better solutions, while realizing the fiscal and monetary constraints in which we are located. I'm about to say two more words about these limitations. I am convinced that, because this crisis has affected the most basic Schumpeterian economic layer, intra-business relations, relations between employees and entrepreneurs, our fiscal-money-regulation activities must also primarily concern this layer. And they do. Everything we've proposed is mostly about this layer. The number of solutions mentioned there, namely the issues of self-employed, civil law contracts, employee relations, parking, which is in some sense a solution that uses Kurzarbeit's experience, i.e. German proposals that are good for the previous few crises that Germany has been experiencing, but also the issue of liquidity for all entrepreneurs, and that is, as soon as possible, with rapid risk verification, the level of credit risk, the conditions of the sine qua non survival of very many companies, although probably not all, because the extent of this crisis is unfortunately increasing from day to day, expanding. Every day, negative scenarios are being carried out and that is why we need to act quickly. Perhaps many of you are also wondering why this or that instrument could not have a wider scope of application, e.g. why we don't give twice as much money or use twice as much mechanism. Well, we've been assured today... Let me give you some examples from our budget. Today we have pre-financing of the budget for this year at a very high level - 77% the budget. So it's very safe. In the normal year, you might ask: why did you prefinance it so quickly? We started doing this in preparation when the first dangerous echoes arrived in Poland. It was the end of January, the beginning of February. The post factum we know today that in December, this virus was somewhere in China, but I don't think the Chinese were fully revealing it to the world. I certainly didn't hear about it in December. Somewhere at the end of January, this information came to us and we made pre-financing to a huge extent of PLN 50 billion. But how much is this 50 billion PLN? For a period of six to seven weeks. These are the needs related to the payment of pensions, medical pensions, salaries for teachers and health care. I am talking about all the current and operational needs of the state budget. I don't count investment budgets. This is why the fifth pillar that we have proposed under the crisis shield concerns the creation of a public investment fund in order to compensate for investment losses which naturally occur during any crisis. Each crisis means wrapping investments in the first step, wrapping marketing expenses in the second step, and in the third step, which follows very quickly after the first two, firing workers. That's why the reaction is needed very, very quickly. I believe that with such a financial resource, we must at the same time ensure that we have the capacity to issue debt in the coming weeks, despite this resource. I will explain why I think so, why I would make such a claim and why I ask you, the High House, to accept such a claim. If you accept it, it will also mean that there is an understanding of the High House for such and not another financial scope, the level of funding of the individual pillars of the crisis shield. Well, our fiscal and budgetary policies are moving within a strict set of fiscal and financial rules around the world. We, opening up to the whole world in 1989 last century and taking advantage of the benefits of globalisation, at the same time we put ourselves at the risk of being able to refinance Polish debt for some time. This ability is fully dependent not only on the financial resources of our country, but In particular in times like this Also from the ability to refinance debt and finance new debt abroad. That is why we must ensure that monetary and fiscal rules established under the current crisis rules are different from those established under the Stability and Growth Pact... I, last week, almost every week, attend a European Council convened by President Charles Michel, and I can say that any stabilisation of expenditure rules, any rules that have closed the budget of Italy, France or Spain... You can imagine what the public now thinks about those rules, about those procedures. Just today, when we are dealing with an unprecedented situation, as the Romans have said, iam proximus ardet Ucalegon, we need to rapidly invent, construct and implement new fiscal and monetary policy instruments. And it's happening, it's happening right in front of us. Example: for the first time in this area the National Bank of Poland on the secondary market I would like to draw your attention to: in the secondary market It has been involved in the concentration of bonds, i.e. in something, here I must emphasize what the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan or the FED have been doing for a long time now. And I am glad that, in the face of such a deep crisis, we have an understanding of monetary policy, but its scope and depth are still dependent on the creditworthiness of the Polish state. In a situation of excessive monetaryisation of part of the debt or in general of the monetary sector, which would be considered risky by the financial markets, the crisis will hit us through the currency channel. be a banking channel. These transmission mechanisms are not yet being experienced today, although you can see that the gold has weakened sharply in the first days of the crisis, about 10% to the dollar and probably 7 to the euro and to the Swiss franc. So let us imagine that we are making the most important monetary and fiscal movements at the same time. In this situation we can have almost a guarantee that we are being hit by a currency transmission channel as a Polish country. I am no longer talking about a potential crisis which may involve this, because part of Polish debt, namely almost PLN 70 billion of sovereign debt... sorry, EUR 70 billion of sovereign debt is denominated in foreign currencies, about PLN 120.130 billion of debt of companies in zlotys is denominated in foreign currencies, and about franc credits all Poles know, for today franchise and euro mortgages are about PLN 120 billion. So together, these three items I said would be 270, 400... about 0.5 trillion zlotys, over 500 billion zlotys. Right? So much Polish debt and refinancing capacity depend on the monetary channel and fiscal transmission. That's why this shield is constructed so intricately with mechanisms, on the one hand, strictly budget... Here there must be budgetary mechanisms, because money from the state budget, from Polish taxpayers, must reach directly to entrepreneurs, for example parking, and to employees. This applies to various, various titles, starting with unemployment, which will increase, by self-employment, through civil law contracts and ending with employees, because we will also be paying social security funds compensation for the loss that will undoubtedly occur there. Notabene, addressing some of you I don't know if you're here because I don't know your opinion, but I'm sure to those countries that sometimes participate in various discussions about the Social Security Office, but I just want to say that 1 month of letting go of the Social Security Office, the total remission of ZUS contributions, that's the cost. PLN 25.26 billion. Yeah, 1 month, let's have it. Also in mind. It's easy to say that three months is that much and that's how we're going to know what our ability to refinance this resource is. Well, somebody might have one idea or another about the financial markets. I think you're well aware of that. The extent of the inheritances we have had and are dealing with on the Polish market is also unprecedented. For the first time in 30 years, the Warsaw Stock Exchange has experienced such a decline. Well, when we hear something like that, we understand that it's an extremely dangerous indicator, very much speaking. Falls in raw materials markets, with a few exceptions, in the long term can mean something good for Poland. These exceptions are, of course, Polish KGHM, because the price of copper fell, at least a few days ago, under 5,000, and break-even is somewhere at 5,000 100, 5,000 200. So one of our national champions just found himself temporarily, I hope. Underwater, as they say in business jargon. But with the exception of these few raw materials groups, we are a great importer of raw materials, above all oil and gas. The price reduction of these raw materials in the longer term will positively translate into the Polish economy and this is certainly a factor that needs to be given as well. take into account in the third and fourth quarters of this year. I hope that in the coming years this reduction will continue for some time and Poles will continue to benefit from it. However, the valuation of the various assets has already been reduced This includes the behaviour of the bond market, as well as funds that have temporarily become illiquid, is a very dangerous, dangerous phenomenon because we need to maintain the credibility of the whole system, including the system of investment funds, including the banking system, the entire insurance system and the financial system. Today, as in the 12 years ago, 11 years ago, it is to a large extent up to the state's ability to find the right answer to this phase of the crisis. To sum up, High Izbo, I would like to say that today, as the first condition, we consider, of course, the epidemiological state and the state of public health in the country. But we need to realise that if the impact on the Polish economy continues, if it is even stronger, if this impact on public finances does not end, it will also mean a huge deficit in health care, and this will negatively affect the whole health care and the ability of the Polish state to fight the repercussions of Coronavirus now or in the summer or autumn. I hope that in winter the vaccine will be invented, as most of my interlocutors, epidemiologists, viral experts, experts in this field say. So, realizing that public health is above all else, we must also bear in mind that public finances in a situation like this are particularly vulnerable to attacks from outside and attacks that may occur through different transmission channels, i.e. currency, wealth, supply, demand. These are different paths we must avoid. That is why it is so important to adapt fiscal, financial, monetary instruments to the risks we face. And we're facing unprecedented threats, and that's why we're maintaining some kind of response flexibility as a cross-cutting condition for our response. This means that when talking to entrepreneurs, with trade unions, with employers, I spoke with local government officials today, with regional marshals and city presidents every day we try to adapt and implement new solutions. And such solutions, additional sharpenings, sanitary and epidemiological rigors are also going to be implemented tomorrow. All this because now ours, if I may say so, the whole state orchestra, all the legislative institutions involved in executive power, but also the local government... We need to play to one goal and try to work out the best possible solutions in those realities in which we move. Therefore, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, please take a kind look at the main assumptions of these projects, their value, their importance and their immediate adoption. Because it is extremely important to correct, as I stress, this phase of the health crisis, which is turning before our eyes into a global economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u3	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I would like to inform you that the Senate is, in its essence, determined not only to improve the anti-crisis shield, but also to build on it a real dam that will prevent the collapse of the crisis. And we're determined to do it as soon as possible. We agreed between the clubs that the speeches of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators will be partially written in writing to the protocol to be later in the transcription and will be spoken by the Posted Senators. So, thanking the Prime Minister for this broad view of the situation, we are moving on. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Commission on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 28 March 2020 amending certain laws on the health system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 28 March 2020. The Commission met today, so as soon as it could, and immediately proceeded to proceed. Print No 94 A ... The law that arises ad hoc in response to the epidemic of Coronavirus, is a law that refers to many other laws in the field of health. Indeed, the economic crisis that the Prime Minister has said is unbelievable, but the crisis in all health care is also unimaginable. I think that even more at the moment, the whole society is hurting whether or not they have access to a doctor and whether they are at risk of life and health. The bill we've been working on today in the Health Committee is making a lot of changes. I think it's in 14 or 15 health laws. This is a law that deals with a specific epidemic related to the coronavirus, so unfortunately these are not solutions that will safeguard us for the future. And this is definitely the negative side of this bill. Of course, there are records that are needed, long-awaited, and that will undoubtedly improve the health situation. The main elements contained in this Act relate primarily to the organisational aspects of the health system. Many amendments are made here, changes in specialization training, qualifications for the performance of tasks related to the high risk of infectious disease infection, pharmaceutical prescription is introduced, the possibility to issue pro auctore prescriptions, the rules on sanitary transport are being changed. An additional institution for home isolation is introduced here. This isolation is obviously related to a coronavirus, which is characterized by an incredible rate of spread. The provisions on reports, medical records, public procurement are also being amended, changes in access to the profession for nurses after a 5-year break in the profession are made. These are all really changes in order, caused by the current situation. There are also controversial provisions in this law that make us wonder if it is certainly a good time to introduce some solutions. It goes on for example. to transfer 500 million PLN to the medical research agency at a time when, as we know very well, hospitals are suffering from a lack of equipment or personal protective equipment. There are also provisions on care allowances and the possibility of advice by electronic means. As I said, these are organisational changes that help benefit the health system. But are they really about the most important issues, the problems that health workers are facing every day and our patients are facing? Let us remember that we have not only patients with Coronavirus but also patients with chronic diseases in acute conditions who need medical advice and adequate protection in hospitals. After hearing the information presented by the Minister in the Health Committee, there was a discussion. The senators have asked many detailed questions about not only the specific articles of the Act, but also the whole situation that is currently taking place in health care, and in fact, in general, in the area of public health. The number of cases, the number of deaths, whether single-name hospitals are certainly adequately prepared to fight this epidemic, whether medical equipment is missing, whether medical personnel are adequately equipped with personal protective equipment. The senators had many questions and many doubts, because the message from the government, from the Minister of Health, coming to us through the media, because there is no other possibility, is in contrast to the information that we receive daily by e-mail or by phone from hospital directors, doctors who directly provide medical services. We also asked questions about the cooperation of the Ministry of Health and the implementation of the WHO guidelines. Everyone in this room knows the important password given by the WHO Director-General: tests, tests, tests. There was also a question about the availability of these tests, how they are carried out, why for some people they are not available and for what reasons they are not performed. Questions have been raised, as I said, concerning also statutory provisions related to e.g. with the problem of medication refund. The question was whether cancer patients would be able to access new therapies, especially as the Refund Act is suspended at this time. Questions and doubts I'm abstracting everything that's written in the bill and it's positive, there's been a lot. The Minister only referred to some of the issues. In most cases, he said that the questions did not concern the law and that he would therefore answer them in writing. Minister, we have taken this position, this answer, and we will patiently wait for written answers, because the questions asked are based on patient safety concerns, as well as on the safety of medical personnel, which, as you know, must be ensured, because they are at the moment the most vulnerable. The senators looked very carefully at the bill. We discussed as much as we had time, because the pace of proceding is really incredibly fast. We've decided... We came here not to give political speeches, but to do something concrete to improve this bill, so that it was really visible and felt for medical staff and patients. As members of the Health Committee That's what we're aiming for, and that's what's most important to us. That is why we have decided to propose amendments. The amendments are very important. I think that all of you who have read these amendments, you know, feel in your conscience that they are being proposed with care and in order to secure medical personnel, and also to ensure improvement in our patients. I know that health was always a little bit on the side that was bearable when health was lost when people talked about illness. Individual diseases were most often referred to at the time, problems related to individual diseases. Today we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about public health, about our society and about the epidemic threat that can affect any one of us. And that's why everything I'm saying is really important. There will be no economy without health, Prime Minister. We have always stressed that health and the economy are inseparable. The amendments we are presenting to the High House today have been adopted by the Health Committee because they are improving and even correcting the bill that has been addressed to us today. Several of these amendments clarify certain provisions that are already in the law, but the environment demands that it be clear that these provisions should be statutory, so that there is no doubt later, after the outbreak. An example is telemedical advice, which, as we know, is available and possible, but the medical discharge on the basis of such advice raises concerns about the medical environment. The point is that it is certainly well enough in this law. That is why there is a new provision here, which the Health Commission has clarified. We also felt that the doctor's orders were right. We do not want to divide the medical environment into those who work in medical entities and those who work in medical practices. Besides, we discussed this subject two weeks ago when we were preparing a specialist, we raised it there. Since the Special Law was not proceded in the Seym, we decided to transfer these entries to the Act discussed today. But the most important issues that are emerging and new are absolutely the most important ones, and I think you will have no doubts about them. These are the records for testing medical personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many positive, good changes in both laws, but there is really no cover, no safety assurance for medical personnel. This can't be right. We can't promise them. We have to guarantee that. And that is why in this law we have clarified, we have written down amendments that guarantee medical personnel, who are presently 24 hours a day, in contact with patients, to perform tests. The tests are one of the most important elements of the medical staff's shield. And we have to guarantee that. This is undoubtedly the most important thing. And I don't believe that any of you will raise your hand to keep the medical staff safe. Finally, I would like to say that there is one question that was not finally resolved at the Health Committee meeting. It shall apply to Article. 36. I hope that the Minister is here and that he will speak on this matter, because it was a request from the Minister to make a change in this article. And now there is a question to the Minister: is the Minister obliging us to call again the Health Committee and to clarify this article, is it going to be an issue that the Minister will somehow settle without calling a committee meeting? So, in conclusion, I would like to say that all the amendments that have been tabled by both the Civic Coalition and the Left have been accepted by the Health Committee. The committee therefore requests the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I would very kindly ask the senators of the secretaries in the halls to draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions and then send this list to Senator Alexander Schwed. There's no information that there's any... There's no one in the O.R. either. We wait for a moment... There isn't? There isn't. I'm getting updates here. No questions. In the absence of any questions, I would like to inform you that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister Janusz Cieszyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to make a brief reference to those amendments which were proposed in the press from the committee meeting. First of all, this first amendment, which concerns distance testing when deciding on incapacity for work, is an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, which is without object because, already today, on the basis of the rules in place, such a ruling can be issued. And this is implemented in practice. This is also confirmed by many interpretations issued by the President of the Social Insurance Institution, and this has been the subject of many discussions over recent weeks. There is full agreement in this respect. It concerns both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy That this can be done, so this amendment is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen. As regards the second amendment, namely the addition of medicinal agents to the pharmaceutical distribution chain, this is a practice that has been removed due to the so-called. inverted supply chain. We, as regards the supply of medicines to medicinal entities, have the opportunity to do so through the Agency for Material Reserves and Central Base of Sanitary and Anti-Vepidemic Reserves. Therefore, such a situation, when these medicines are passed on free of charge, is in our view more favourable than that in which a medicinal product would have to pay for them. Amendments 3rd and 4th implement the request from the Ministry. In our view, they are orderly and should be supported. As regards Amendment Five, it implements such a request to limit the reporting obligations which rest on the doctor himself. The original proposal for legislation was, you can say, taken from the law on the prevention of infectious diseases, but after an examination of the arguments that were put forward at the committee meeting, and after having agreed on this legislative basis, we have assessed that this amendment deserves to be taken into account. As the applicants have said here, it actually reduces bureaucracy, so in such a situation it is most appropriate to agree to this. As far as Amendment 6 is concerned, it is without object in our view, because it actually duplicates what is already possible. As regards Amendment 7, this is an amendment which deletes Article. 9 which are the subject of the findings and decisions which took place at the stage of the work in the Sejm. This is, let me remind you, the amendment tabled by the parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition. These findings were such that this provision, the provision of such content, should be included in the Act and we maintain our opinion in this regard. As far as Amendment 8 is concerned, it is also an amendment of a nature, one can say, in order. We support this amendment as much as possible. As regards Amendment 9, this amendment introduces at the law level issues which are normally governed by the regulations of the President of the National Health Fund. Therefore, in our view, it does not deserve to be taken into account. As far as Amendment 10 is concerned, it has already been the subject of work in the Sejm and has not been adopted there, so our position remains the same. I would like to remind you that the National Health Fund has provided additional funds to hospitals with one-name names and to those that run infectious branches. These are funds of PLN 100 per bed per day and PLN 200 per bed with a ventilator in single-name hospitals. These are measures that will allow hospital directors to pay additional salaries, staff allowances, which are currently involved in helping patients in single-name hospitals. With regard to Amendment 11, the one that you spoke about, the amendment on mandatory tests, I would just like to point out that, in our view, this is an excessive amendment. This is an amendment, the objective of which is actually achieved within the framework of the Article. 46b Act on the fight against infectious diseases in humans, according to which a regulation of the Council of Ministers gives the possibility to impose compulsory medical examinations, including of course such tests. So that such an amendment, especially since it neither provides for sanctions nor sets out the exact way in which these studies are to be carried out, does not deserve to be taken into account. Amendment 12 is combined with amendment 7 on which the position is negative, and this is also the position of the government on this issue. And that's all about the amendments. I would still like to encourage all of you to support the adoption of the law with those amendments which the government recommends. This will allow us to decide whether or not to correct the bill that came to you from the Sejm. This will make us even better able to support the health system and implement a number of changes to the Polish legal system, which will help us in the fight against the coronavirus from the organizational and operational side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I ask the senators of the secretaries to draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions, and then send this list to Senator Alexander Schwed. There are no volunteers. There isn't? Nothing comes, nothing comes. No one's checking in. Okay, we've got nothing either. In the absence of questions, I open the discussion. Senator Michael Kaminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Starting my speech of the debate in the upper chamber of the Polish Parliament on a package of laws on the crisis related to the pandemic of Coronavirus, first... Microphone. Starting a debate in the upper chamber of the Polish Parliament on the crisis related to the coronavirus, I would like to thank all senators first of all: doctors, nurses, all people of Polish hospitals and health centers, who today on this very difficult front put their lives, health, devote their time, their families' time to fight for the health of Poles. Thank you very much for this on behalf of the entire Senate. Now we are discussing this part of the package, which concerns health protection, which is the part of the crisis which is directly related to the life and health of Poles, and we need to ask ourselves on this occasion whether we today know the truth about the scale of this virus. Unfortunately, we do not know this truth, and so far the government is not doing much to ensure that the whole truth about Coronavirus reaches the Polish public. The essence of the problem is the scale of tests. As long as we do not know how many Poles are really suffering from Coronavirus, we are not quite able to draw up a good map of the fight against this virus and limit this pandemic. And just as the Prime Minister of the government today rightly pointed out, which was only for the sake of the pandemic of Coronavirus was gracious, for which we thank, to appear in the Senate of the Republic of Poland and to see the existence of our House... That's not true. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In this term. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to say... Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Please remain calm. I said, in this House term. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In this House's term of office, the Prime Minister was never once... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. ...and did not participate in our debates. He took it very well today. I am glad that... I regret that there was a pandemic of the virus in order for the Prime Minister to come to the House, but I welcome it and thanked the Prime Minister for it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This does not change the fact that interrupting anyone who speaks is a bad habit that should not be practiced in this House. I would like to say that I have the impression that the Prime Minister, rightly speaking in this House, could not have been prepared for the pandemic of Coronavirus... You have to agree with that. But it is worth asking yourself: was the Polish state, for 5 years ruled by Law and Justice, prepared for a crisis? And we have to answer this very brutally: no, the state after 5 years of rule of law and justice and over 2 years of rule of Matthew Morawiecki was not prepared for the crisis. Of course, the fact that this crisis is related to the coronavirus, it's kind of a case. Of course, the government had no influence on that. But when you're Prime Minister today It is amazingly right, surprisingly pragmatic, that he speaks to us about budgetary constraints and budgetary responsibility, it is worth asking the question: Prime Minister, but where have you been for the last five years? After all, since today there is no money available, since, as you say correctly, there is no money for all that we should give today to Poles who need this money, starting with health care, on people who are afraid of losing their jobs tomorrow and not getting paid to end up... That money's missing for them because that money's not in the budget because it was spent by this crew. And supporting the government and the majority of the parliament in everything they do for Poles in this crisis, we will ask these questions: what did you do, what did you do to prepare the Polish health system for this situation? You gave us, the Poles, health protection, which made the health situation worse. Is the Polish health system better prepared for a pandemic today than it would have been if it hadn't been for what Minister Radziwiłł did? Anyone who knows anything about it will say that today the health system is prepared for it worse. Of course, no one. Okay, I'll do it again. He couldn't have predicted the pandemic of Coronavirus. But a responsible politician has to predict that good times... And under the rule of Law and Justice, there was a worldwide prosperity, and there is no doubt about it. And Law and Justice showed how to spend money in good times. But today, in times of crisis, there is a question for Poles: did this team make good use of this time? Are Poland and Poles prepared for a difficult time today? And since this difficult time will come, I repeat, responsible politicians should have known. Today, all that we think the senators in this House think is bad, unfinished, often without the bad intentions of the authors. We'll try to improve. This bill will be corrected by us and will go to the Sejm. I am afraid that most of the parliament, as almost always so far, will reject the amendments adopted by this Senate mostly. Which is why I regret... I must say that I regret the fact that the opposition majority did not adopt the tactics proposed by us to put forward a solution for Poles in the form of a Senate legislative initiative. I think then there'd be a chance... Then it would be much harder to put politics above the interests of Poles by the present government camp in the Sejm than it will be now. But we'll see. I would like to say that we must also, unfortunately, learn a lesson from the fact that the majority of the government seems to fail to see how often we, from this side of the room today, shake hands with those who rule Poland today, and we say: in the name of the interests of Poles, we put what is different aside. Because today, health, the safety of Poles, the safety of our economy, the interests of families are more important than any party, any candidate, any election. We're pulling out that hand. And what do we get? Unconstitutional amendments to our democracy pushed through at night. It is disgraceful and it is immoral that this on our part shown a gesture of good will Because Poland and Poles are more important than any policy It's used by you for night throws, for breaking the constitution, for trying to roast some political roast on that fire. And it can't be agreed to. But we will continue to be open to any initiative that will serve Poland and Poles, regardless of which side these proposals will come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to straighten something out at first, quote some facts. As I recall, the Prime Minister was already in this House during this term, and at our first sitting he was present. But today I speak to you primarily as a doctor who comes straight from the hospital. I have to say that we doctors, doctors, nurses, lab diagnes aren't secure in any way. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I didn't bother my previous speaker. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal... I'm asking you to calm down. We're not secure in any way. I want some facts to speak to you. I am a young parliamentarians, but I remember pretty well what happened in the High House. On 4 February, on the initiative of the president of the Senate Health Committee, Ms Beata Małecka-Libera, a meeting of the Health Committee on the epidemiological threat in our country was held on COVID-19. And, ladies and gentlemen, what did I meet with then? As a doctor, as a young parliamentarians, I met with ridicule, ridicule, encouragement to play Chinese, and it was from the chief health inspector, Mr. Jarosław Pinkas. How am I supposed to look into the eyes of all the doctors in Poland as a non-professional senator who provides medical services every day in a hospital in Podbeskidzie, Bielsko-Biała? It wasn't a behavior worthy of the chief health inspector. It is the Senate, not the government, that has launched a broad debate on the risks posed by the COVID-19 epidemic. As far as my memory is correct, only after the fifth plenary session of the Senate started on 25 February, Marshal Witek, at the order of President Andrzej Duda, called a session of the Sejm for 2 March 2020, although the PiS senators here, in this Chamber, in this House... Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz mocked our debate and even claimed that it was not necessary. I don't think I'm schizophrenic. Well, these are facts, let's talk facts. Currently, Poland, our country, is not prepared for an epidemic. Everything's missing, masks are missing, aprons are missing. If it weren't for social solidarity and self-help, we doctors, doctors, nurses and lab workers who are really on the front line, as well as those women who exceed the temporal dimension of their work and have Goggle prints on their faces. I don't know if you've seen anything like this. We wouldn't be protected in any way. I still don't know if I could have come to you today because we're not being tested. Tests, tests, tests! Today, before our debate, at 3:00 p.m., my cardiologist colleague, Minister Łukasz Szumowski, said that people suspected of COVID infection will have tests. I don't know what that means. There's no such thing in medical language. And I know your professor from various conventions, and I know that he speaks quite specifically every day, because medicine is specific. We need evidence based on facts. I understand that now it is difficult for such evidence, because the epidemic has affected us, I think that many governments have underestimated the Wuhan reports a little bit, but we could have started preventive action much earlier, as we have advocated. Every step of the way, we are faced with the total inability of the government, which is also trying to hide the scale of the problem. The most annoying is, as I said, the lack of sufficient availability of diagnostic tests that would allow you to diagnose and isolate sick people quickly and efficiently. Well, as doctors, we don't know if we're putting high-risk people at risk of getting infected with COVID-19 or not. Too few testing laboratories cause that, despite the dedication of staff, almost superhuman workers, the waiting time for results is too long, often many hours, resulting in long hours of SORs, wards and emergency rooms, so that we cannot treat patients for other life-threatening conditions. Patients may not die of COVID-19, but they will die of a heart attack, pulmonary edema, pneumonia and other diseases. Now you can see a drastic shortage of medical personnel at every level, from rescuers to nurses to specialist doctors. There are no proper procedures and algorithms. The lack of disinfectants, personal protective equipment is too annoying. I've already told you that. In the face of an emerging epidemic, we are practically helpless. What happens if, for epidemiological reasons, doctors and nurses have to work on one job? Here is the answer: many medical, public and non-public institutions will have to be closed down and will not provide medical services to patients. What's it supposed to be like? Since the most important is the health and life of Poles and Poles, the government should take special care of those who fight for this health on the front line. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u11	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Wojciech Necessary to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u12	Thank you very much, Marshal. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I address everyone as a doctor and director of the hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really get text messages and I don't get calls. I'm just in the hospital every day, and I know what's going on. And if I get any calls or texts, it's lucky they're messages from people who want to help the hospital who react, who fill the gaps that are full, and thanks to which, you can say, hospitals work. When I write letters to the voivodeship, I get the answer that the equipment is gone or I get a tenth of the equipment I order. That's the reality of phone calls and texts. I'm here from the front line and I'm not gonna beat the crap out of you. I'll speak as it is. We're fighting a ruthless opponent, a very dangerous one that we didn't expect. We can't send unarmed soldiers into this war, soldiers we don't investigate, soldiers we don't provide enough equipment for, because these soldiers are just gonna be wasted, this fight is gonna be ruined. We've wasted time, which should be used for universal mobilization, for adapting emergency rooms, for organizational changes, for the purchase of tests, for laboratory equipment. All of this is happening at the last minute or it's too late, and I'm sure everyone feels this huge time and doesn't know what the treatment will look like in three or five days in their hospitals. Where's the support for hospitals in these laws? Where is their extension, where at least, to start, a 15% increase in lump sums and contracts? I will also return to this committee meeting on 4 February. It was just... it's worth listening to the record from this meeting, fortunately this record is. To my question about money for hospitals It is known that in the war, as Bonaparte used to say, only 3 things are needed: money, money and money, and the vice president of the NFZ replied that there is a reserve of NFZ, 2 billion PLN, and it is enough. I thought it was a joke, but unfortunately... Yeah, it's kind of like that. I'll tell you what the real situation is. There was a suspicion of coronavirus in my hospital, and then it checked out and the S.O.R. had to be disinfected. We have a fumigation device, we've been using it a lot now, and it turns out there's not enough fluid to... And I can't buy it because the hospital is in debt and the company that's supposed to deliver refuses to deliver. Luckily, we prevented the problem, we managed to make it, but that's the real situation. Saving banks, saving other institutions... What I'm trying to say is, there's no sanitizing fluid in the hospitals. This is the situation. Why is it that entrepreneurs, not only small, but also medium, understand one truth that... they call me and ask me what you need, do you need money? And they say this: we may not need this money in two weeks, we may not need it in a month; we'll rebuild our businesses somehow, but if your hospital collapses, we'll have no one to save us, so we'll give you everything now, we'll scream... Coronavirus Częstochowa, probably thanks to this group, operates hospitals in Częstochowa, as well as other people who help, local governments, institutions. This aid is already exported from Częstochowa Cieszyn, Cracow 'Cause they're calling from everywhere, and they know that we've got equipment coming from somewhere, that there's an initiative group that can handle this stuff. So thank you all very much. I have to thank them. On the other hand, we have other solutions in the bill, e.g. return to commercialisation of hospitals. Honestly, I thought it was some kind of typographical mistake, that some chuckle got in there, in the records of this bill... Because other countries that fight the coronavirus, e.g. Spain, which makes hospitals, or the United Kingdom, which has asked the private sector to make all its possibilities available for the fight against the coronavirus, is acting rationally in this respect, while in us, for unknown reasons, we have an original idea for the fight against the coronavirus, i.e. privatisation. I don't know how you PiS senators will explain to their constituents that today they mean privatising hospitals, that this solution is even included in this bill. How will the Members of the PiS explain themselves? Well, it's an original idea, and it's a group that amazes with it. Help that's being given to hospitals... You could say it's a joke. On the basis of a joint communication from the NFZ and the Ministry of Health, which appeared on 28 March, we know that the lump sum is to increase by 5%, i.e. by PLN 1 billion, to the whole of Poland. This is less than 0,01 of the NFZ budget, and that's how we evaluate the aid that we're going to give to hospitals, and that's how we value the money. The amendment we are proposing as a Left is very modest because it assumes a 15% increase in the lump sum, which is only 3 times that, or 3 billion PLN instead of 1 billion PLN. But let's make it a start. I hope you don't reject her. The aid for hospitals cannot be limited to the so-called. one-name hospitals. The problem that will affect our health care will be that we stop providing benefits to people with other diseases because patients are hitting Because these hospitals don't diagnose these patients, they want them diagnosed... And infectious wards are inefficient, they're no longer taking patients for diagnostics. So these patients end up in the E.R. And soon it will happen that, first of all, there will be no staff for the S.R., this is one thing, and secondly, these S.R.S.s will simply become ineffective for such reasons as the fact that the research is taking too long that the hospital waits 48 hours for the result of the examination, until if the patient suspected of coronavirus had at that time done some examination or whatever, then you have to disinfect the rooms, etc., etc. It's something you can't keep up. This is all still working because these cases are relatively few, but there may be a situation where more people will be lost due to other diseases that we will not be able to treat than that of Coronavirus. Even this is what I predict when I look at the organization of our health care. Hospital workers. Very little is said about them in these laws. Again, the employees of these indebted hospitals will be sent for money to the directors, and these directors have nothing to buy disinfectants for. That's what's gonna happen. On the other hand, a whip was prepared for the directors here. A representative's institution. If the head of the hospital somehow falls to the rulers, it will be suspended from duty and a proxy will be appointed. Well, that's a solution, too, you don't know why. Let's just say that, of course, I partially understand that, because there might be a situation where the director is going to act irrationally and so on. Well, times of the epidemic... Although it's pretty unlikely. But maybe it's something else. 'Cause maybe the principal's gonna tell us what it's like. It'll tell you how many cases there are, how many patients haven't helped, what the situation is like. And in this way it will pose a threat to the propaganda of success. And that's why he'll be removed. Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes. Okay, I'm almost done. I think that in this situation the Minister of Health is probably already thinking of resigning, although he will not resign because he is a responsible and very involved person, he is a doctor. But left alone, without political opportunity, he's probably having a hard time and a big disappointment right now. To conclude, I'm gonna say this. It's a pity that we're sending so much help to banks and financial institutions that have already been cared for, and we're forgetting about hospitals. It is a pity that you want to reject these 3 amendments, which both improve the earnings and the finances of hospitals and prevent privatisation. I hope there's still some reflection. And finally, I'm gonna tell you a medical secret for the first time in my life. Well, the secret is that the elections that are so much at stake on May 10 will not be held on that date. They can be organized, you can organize them by breaking various laws, regulations, laws, constitutions, but they won't happen because biology won't allow it. And consider that. And to really fight the coronavirus, not politics. Finally, I thank all the people involved in the fight for the health of Poles, all the workers, all the helpers. Plus, I hope my appeal doesn't stay in the vacuum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Waldemar Kraska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I never suspected that I would be in such a role, that as a senator I would also have to speak on behalf of the Minister of Health at such a difficult time, difficult for Poles, but not only for Poles, for the whole of Europe, I think for the whole world. I will try to avoid political threads in my speech. Who knows me? And I'm in this House for the fifth term. It knows that I always try to speak briefly, but give specific numbers. I would also like to start by thanking you, by thanking all health professionals, doctors, nurses, rescuers, lab workers, because they really are on the front line, it is their commitment, their heart depends on how this epidemic will continue in Poland. I have always stressed that those who choose this profession are not merely guided by material values, but also by a certain vocation. And there comes a period of professional work, that this vocation, this mission that we have... I'm a doctor too. It is very important that right now all health professionals feel the great responsibility for health, as well as the life of Poles. But I would like to thank all our citizens here, too, because these limitations that were introduced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government may be a little annoying, maybe limiting us to the freedom to which we are accustomed. It's a beautiful spring, so it's harder for us to stay home. But what we see at the moment on the Polish streets is how little we are there... A great respect for Poles that they understood this difficult situation. But I also call for further perseverance, because this is just the beginning of this fight. This is a fight against an invisible enemy who can touch any one of us, can touch our closest friends. We say that older people are the most vulnerable, but we receive reports from Europe, as well as from all over the world, that young people also get sick and sometimes, unfortunately, die. That's why I think the actions that the government has implemented, including the Ministry of Health, will have a good effect. Maybe not today, but in a few weeks. Because it was us who, Poland, as one of the first countries, closed the borders, banned the assemblies, closed the schools. It is quite serious restrictions, not only for citizens, but also for the economy, but I think it is worth taking such hard decisions at this difficult time, but probably inevitable decisions. I think the medical actions that we as health resorts have taken have been taken in due course. I've been at the Ministry of Health a little longer than six months, but it just so happens that I've been fighting the coronavirus for the last three months, because I've been very involved from the beginning. And I am proud that the ministry is making decisions that will make the Coronavirus epidemic here not the kind of epidemic that is currently in Western European countries. A few facts. At the moment, they're acting so-called. single-name hospitals. Whoever listens to the media knows that these are hospitals dedicated to people infected with the coronavirus. These hospitals are now 19. The total number of places in these hospitals is almost 10,000. Infective hospitals, which also receive these patients, have about 3,000 places in the country. So together it's already 13,000 seats. In these hospitals for the most sick patients, i.e. requiring the so-called. We have 1,200 ventilators reserved for those with severe respiratory failure. To be used in the next order 'Cause maybe these places aren't gonna be enough 'cause we've prepared hospitals so-called. The second throw, i.e. hospitals, which can quickly, within a few days, turn into single-name hospitals. In their case, we also provide for hospitalisation of people in whom we find Coronavirus and the course of the disease requires a stay in the hospital ward. But not all of us who have found the presence of Coronavirus, this course is so severe. Not everyone's gonna need to be in the hospital ward. For such patients we have prepared the so-called. Isolation. These are different facilities, from hospitals to hotels, dorms or school courses, where each patient is prepared a separate room with a sanitary node. There's gonna be medical care. And in such rooms, those people who have a slight sign of coronavirus infection will be able to get through the period of this infection. I know that many people we find infected with the coronavirus don't want to be at home because they don't want to expose other residents, their families to the infection. So I think it's a good idea for these people to be in these places. Many times there were words about the lack of protective clothing for health care professionals. I think no country, as you can see in the media, has been prepared for such a great epidemic. From the beginning we have launched a reserve from the Material Reserve Agency, personal protective equipment for hospitals and infectious units, but these supplies of personal protective equipment are also extended to all hospitals, to POZ, but also to pharmacys, because we know that patients and people who work there can infect. I think that those deliveries that have already arrived and will be arriving this week will be enough for us to complement the resources of this equipment, which is definitely used in the wards that patients with a suspicion of coronavirus come to. My predecessor said that SORs are off if there's a patient out there with a suspicion of COVID-19 and waiting for a test result. That's why these patients are dedicated to isolation. The point is that from this S.R., from this E.R., it was transported there and was already waiting for the result of this study, which is quite labour-intensive because it lasts six to eight hours. And that's why sometimes after many hours, the result goes to this patient. Thus, this isolate will also be dedicated to such patients, and thus it will not be necessary to disable emergency rooms or hospital emergency department, which are not only intended for patients with coronavirus, but also for other our citizens, because we know that people still suffer from heart attacks or strokes or other diseases, and they will definitely end up in these branches. Many words were also said about tests which are carried out in Poland. These tests are called so-called tests. genetic tests, they study with a high degree of accuracy, although they are quite laborious and, unfortunately, take a long time. At the moment, there are 46 laboratories in Poland that perform these tests. The daily power of these labs, if you can say so, is almost 6,000 a day. We're running about 5,000 tests right now. We are also launching a special hotline for medical personnel, so to speak, to analyze all persons who have had contact with an infected person or who are suspected of being coronavirus. And for these doctors, it's gonna be separating the path of testing for coronavirus. We also asked the medical staff to limit their work to a single workplace, of course, if possible. Senator Kaminski very expressively said that we have few health professionals, but I think he forgot that he was also in the government when the number of admissions for medical studies and nursing schools was limited. Unfortunately, we are currently experiencing the effects of these decisions, even though the number of medical students and admissions to nursing schools has increased considerably for 4 years. Unfortunately, we'll have to wait a few more years. Time... I'm almost done. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, it seems that Poland is prepared for the outbreak of Coronavirus. It's all in our hands. If we stay in our homes, we'll cut through these epidemiological chains, it won't happen again in the Italian scenario. Once again, the epidemic doesn't read books, it doesn't read charts, it's going on with its rhythm, but it's certainly a lot, and it's a lot up to us. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u15	Thank you very much. Before closing the discussion, I would like to ask whether all the senators who wanted to take the floor have already come forward and whether they have all tabled their speeches or amendments. I'm just gonna wait a minute so we can report this to the secretaries. So I'm telling you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Swed, Benjamin Godyla and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. and consider it as item two of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 96 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 96 A and 96 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u16	Thank you very much, Marshal. Prime Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 28 March 2020. The meeting was held today, and it started at 9:00 a.m. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Development, headed by Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health. In particular, the opinion of the legislators was presented very thoroughly at the meeting. It would be quite difficult at this point to address these legislative comments in detail, because this opinion was presented only orally. Of course, this is fully justified because of the legislative pace we have at this point in time. Your patron has e-mailed the entire legislative team's comments in correspondence. There were many, mostly legislative. The Commission has finally adopted the law without amendments, but subject to me, as chairman, that we adopt the law without amendments at this point, because, due to some chaos, haste, the lack of drafting specific amendments in writing is difficult to vote for such amendments, but we do not exclude, as Law and Justice, the support of a number of these amendments, because it is always the case that we use the fruits of the legislators' work, or at least we try to use these fruits. Besides, as far as I know, committees whose meetings took place later and which had already had a greater opportunity to consult on these legislative amendments Also with representatives of the government In part, these amendments, which also appeared at the meeting of our committee, accepted. I know it is. She did, in many cases, a Senate finance committee. Gentlemen, of course, there have been many amendments at this committee meeting, but I will not discuss these amendments, because I am sure that the applicant and the representative of the minority proposal, Senator Szejnfeld, will do better than me, will present them as part of the minority proposal report. Minister Emilewicz presented the substance of this law in detail. I, too, am not going to discuss this law in detail, because this is our meeting that's specific, but I'm going to say a few words. First of all, it must be seen that, apart from the Ministry of Development, which was leading here, 11 resorts were involved in the development of this huge document, so almost the entire Council of Ministers. In addition, the Social Insurance Institution, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Energy Regulatory Office, the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the Financial Supervision Authority took an active part in the legislative process. This is a huge legislative work, an extraordinary legal challenge, and it is understandable that such a huge document could also have some shortcomings, some errors, but they certainly do not disqualify this law in its entirety. This law is written so that in its most important, substantive aspect it can enter into force and it is necessary for it to enter into force as soon as possible. Several groups of legislation can be identified among the most important substantive solutions. The first group is a group of provisions designed to improve the liquidity of companies. These are all the exemptions of micro-entrepreneurs and self-employed from paying social and health contributions for a period of 3 months, the time limit for the payment of advances on income tax on remuneration paid in March and in April to 1 June 2020, the time limit for the payment of taxes on income from buildings for the months from March to May 2020 to 20 July 2020, when revenues are lower by at least 50%, the time limit for the payment of perpetual use charges, the charges for the conversion of perpetual use rights into property rights by 30 June 2020 and many, many other such arrangements. The second group consists of deferrals in the performance of certain obligations, such as, for example, moving the obligation to submit a new VAT JPK file, declarations together with records, delaying the application of the new VAT rate matrix by 3 months, i.e. by 1 July 2020, shifting the obligation to work capital plans in medium-sized enterprises by half a year, etc., etc. There are almost 50 such solutions in this law. The third group is to secure jobs and employees' income, i.e. to finance the employer's salary for an employee with an economic downtime of 50% minimum wage or, with a reduced working time of 20%, not more than part-time support up to half-wage but not more than 40% the average salary for work, the financing of part of the staff's wage costs and the social contributions due by the governor in the case of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And there's also over 50, almost 60 of these kinds of... sorry, over 60 of these kinds of solutions. And the fourth group are solutions that enable and improve the performance of different tasks. One of the most well-known solutions in this area is the temporary withdrawal of the ban on trade activities on Sundays. There are almost 100 solutions of this type. In conclusion, I do not want to go further into these substantive solutions, because there is a minister here, she will certainly do it much better than I do. I will say that this is a very complex, incredibly extensive, multifaceted law, which is the first such legislative act, the first response by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to this extremely complex and deep crisis that the Prime Minister had just mentioned in the Senate. Of course, the Senators of the majority, mainly Senator Szejnfeld, have subjected this law to very deep, very thorough criticism. I'm just gonna point out two aspects. It is in this law, and not in the previous one, that these provisions concerning the electoral code are included, so that such an emotional statement by Marshal Kaminski was somewhat premature, because he referred to the previous law rather than to this one. Just as unfair was this criticism concerning Prime Minister Morawiecki. I believe that Prime Minister Morawiecki has been very much present since the beginning of this crisis. He is also once again present at the Senate meeting, for which he should be commended rather than criticized. Well, I'm sure this is the most critical of the rules on the electoral code, the changes that allow the correspondence vote to be extended, as well as some changes in the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council. Well, there were many reservations about the fact that this law offers insufficient support, that these amounts are too small, that the support of entrepreneurs should be greater, that the scope of the subject matter, subjective law should be greater. Well, now, as I'm saying, I'm leaving Mr. President Szejnfeld. In conclusion, I would like to say that we put the bill to the vote and passed the proposal to adopt the laws without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a proposal from the minority committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that in order to properly justify the position of the applicants, due to these proposals which have been submitted, a lot of time should be spent, because it would be necessary to present a point of view, a comprehensive assessment of the law, a bill which, as we have heard here, Mr Pęk praised. I would not like to say that this law is of no relevance to the fight against the epidemic and, above all, its negative consequences for citizens, including entrepreneurs and their workers. She only gives this protection hope, only builds optimism. Anyone who reads into this bill, and in particular compares the offer of this law with their situation and a situation that may threaten him in the future, because unfortunately, it seems still, Let's hope it doesn't come true, knock on the woods, we're at the beginning of this epidemic, see that this hope is burning. Why? Because we have an offer here, which is very illusory, very soft. It seems that in some cases, when it could even be appreciated The government was heading in the right direction, but after a few steps it kind of stopped. Under no circumstances has the government gone and reached its goal, which has begun with a given or another provision. Speaking of rules, I have a very dramatic reflection here, which seems to be 80%. These provisions are addressed to the administration, to officials, not to recipients, to ordinary people, to the citizen. Even lawyers have a huge problem judging her. Our legislators, great, brilliantly working, for the last few dozen hours, at night, for half an hour, presented how many legislative shortcomings she had. Of course, they weren't referring to substantive matters, and certainly political ones, because that's not their role. So this already shows how much of the problem will be for each one of those who want to benefit from this law at all. This is the first case. Second thing. This bill is practically blind. She is blind to the needs of the Polish economy. She is blind to the needs of Polish business. This bill, so to speak, pretends to see, or rather sees in part Well, I want to be fair about the problems of micro, small, medium-sized enterprises. He only sees part of it, because, as I said, it does not meet any expectations, as I am about to say, and what is the basis for making proposals, although certainly not all of them. Namely, outside this sphere of small entrepreneurs, the law does not de facto apply to large companies, which are the foundation of the Polish economy, which, as they start to go bankrupt, will attract with them on the basis of avalanches or dominos also small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, because they are very often their subcontractors, co-operatives, etc., etc. This should not be the case, which sector is more important, because they are all important. If the Polish economy is to remain competitive on the European and global markets in the future, it must not only safeguard the Polish needs inside but also outside when it comes to exports. We don't see it here. There is a large shortage, I think, in this respect as regards companies that are located in special economic zones. They will probably experience difficulties in a similar way as others, like those outside the zones, only that their shoulders are subject to certain obligations not only public-law obligations, but also those resulting from reliefs which are granted in special economic zones. If they do not meet these conditions, then of course they will have to be undone, and if the relief goes back, they will go bankrupt. Dear Members, if I would like to address more specifically the problems that this law does not solve, even though it affects them, as for example. micro-entrepreneurs, that's enough to say about the proposal of a preferential loan to micro-entrepreneurs. This is a 5,000 one-off loan, and that's still subject to the maintenance of jobs for months. If it doesn't work out, and very often it doesn't work out. Let's not get enchanted, that's life. You'll still have to pay back that money. But if I were to count the 5,000 zlotys to what they can do and how they can help the company, then I would count the opposite, otherwise. If a micro enterprise employs up to 9 people and if we assume that it only employs them, if I only pay a minimum wage, if we multiply it by 9 employees, it would cost this company about 45 thousand PLN per month. And if we divide this 5,000 zloty of one-time help into these 9 people and for these months, it will come out that the government wants to give the aid worth 92 zloty, I repeat: 92 zloty for the company to carry and raise on its shoulders the cost of 45 thousand zlotys. Well, that's the picture of how this bill wants to help companies in Poland. I said: direction good, execution or overcome distance very poorly. The same is true for aid to self-employed people and those who are employed for contract-order or contract for work. Yes, it is necessary to thank that 1 million people in Poland have been noticed, but again, just as in the case of micro-entrepreneurs, only symbolically. And that's definitely not gonna save these people. Maintaining liquidity and maintaining jobs are 2 priorities. It could be said that nothing is needed in this law except for the provisions that will implement these 2 priorities. Because if we maintain the liquidity of companies, they will continue to work for the Polish economy and their competitiveness on the international stage, and if we keep jobs in these companies, we will not grow, at least dangerously, unemployment and will not be pooring society. Well, it doesn't seem that we have the opportunity to meet these expectations through this bill, because even if you don't expect to suspend the repayment of loans, we know that this is one of the great burdens on companies. Rarely which company conducts business activities, especially those already medium and larger, on the basis of own capital. Using credits is an absolute standard, standard. It's not just bankers and entrepreneurs who know that. Similarly, despite the financial collapse in many businesses, the need to pay PIT taxes, CIT, of course, will also not serve to maintain liquidity. Keeping jobs is, in turn, a question of financing these jobs for entrepreneurs of this type who, due to this epidemic, will have difficulties in having money for wages for a certain period of time. Yes, under a wave of severe criticism about the fact that reversing the ZUS will not serve this aid, the government has gone And you can thank me for that, too. In order to ensure that companies do not pay ZUS, only that the remaining public-law charges must be paid. What's the point? Another thing... I mentioned it. Another issue for maintaining jobs is the funding of these jobs. And here on the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. In the case of parking, we have funding on such conditions and on such a high... i.e. at such a low level that few companies, I think, will be able to sustain themselves, not to close their business as so on a slow run to cross and keep these jobs. It's gonna be more worth it... I'm sorry for calling you that, because a modern entrepreneur doesn't look at his crew in these categories. However, it will be more profitable to fire an employee than to support it for it. The same applies when it comes to the issue of special benefits, etc. Their height, their conditions are that these benefits will serve to a lesser extent what is most important Keeping jobs, surviving this tough epidemic time, especially since we don't know how long it's gonna last. Some say three months, others say nine months. Bureaucracy. Bureaucracy is something we should fight in our country. We try to do this from time to time on a daily basis, with different effects, even when everything's okay when everything's okay. And that's how you've been supposed to fight bureaucracy for the last five years. But when there's a crisis, when people have no head for anything, when they're worried as soon as they get up in the morning, what's gonna happen in the evening, whether the company's gonna exist or not, whether the employee's gonna be employed or not, whether there's gonna be money to pay, then it's gonna be bureaucracy, and it's pyramidal... And about what? Helping people? Well, that doesn't make any sense anymore. After all, these people in many cases, even if they decide to use this help, will want to try, will have problems using it because it will be difficult to go through these procedures at all. And that's definitely going to have to be radically reduced. The maintenance of jobs will also not serve to maintain the principle that applies in Poland, namely that the employer must pay for the first 33 days of a sick worker. Yes, now is not the time for us to have a great revolution here. Because it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, and it's going to be a revolution, Let's leave it on the side. But now, during the epidemic, in those situations where the employee gets hospitalized, when he's sick or not yet known if he's sick, but he's quarantined, so he doesn't work, let the ZUS pay for the 33 days because he's the one who's making the contribution. Why should an employer pay? There's no money for wages, no money for raw materials, no money for products, no money to stay on the surface, his employee or his employees got sick, they're in quarantine, and he still has to pay for it. More than a month. Probably in some cases they won't survive this month and go bankrupt, and then they won't pay anyway. So we can have a lot, a lot of regret to the government. As for unfulfilled expectations, many sad pretensions. It's on the one hand, but on the other hand, you have to hope in yourself. I've got it. That in such a gigantic state of crisis in which we were in Poland... I don't look at the situation here in other countries, in Germany, whether they have a bigger problem or not, because if it's minus 10... The point is that, here in Poland, we have been building a new country, a democratic state, a state of civil society for 30 years, a country in which power is to have respect for the citizens, and is to be applied to them with an appreciation. A country that is to be friendly to every citizen, whether he is an employee or an employer or a liberal profession, whether there is one religion or another, whether he supports one or another policy option. I have yet to hope that, in a time of crisis, when we as a whole country, as a whole nation, face the greatest challenge in three decades, we can work together and achieve a common goal. Yes, to be able to say that we all won with this epidemic, not that the government won, that the PiS won, or that the democratic opposition won. No, we all won together. Why am I bringing this up? Yeah, for a few reasons. The first reason is that the amendments that have been tabled... As I repeat, these are only the first amendments, they will be tabled next. I would just like to remind you that one of them concerns the implementation of special allowances, another concerns the exemptions from the advance payment of income taxes on PIT, CIT, the other is the elimination of bad rules on individual interpretations, another concerns the suspension of repayment of loans, in order to maintain the liquidity of companies, etc. I hope that the Prime Minister and the entire government, and the entire governing coalition, will bow down to these proposals, absolutely alienating themselves from their authors, judging only whether they will help or not. I am talking about this because, so far, we have learned that every vote, every declaration, every amendment made by the opposition is rejected, actually absolutely, unreflectively. Let's get this over with. Let's end this in the face of this tragedy, this drama that seems to be happening, it's not here yet. Let's get this over with. Second reason. I am talking about this because there are records which should not be included in this law, not only because it is intended to save, extinguish fire, war other than political ones, but also because they should not be in the Polish system of law at all, or at least for some, in the proposed mode. I'm talking about three solutions that we don't know why they were introduced, but I put it in very big quotes. Namely, it is about changes in the electoral code, which have nothing to do with defending the tailor so that her workshop does not fall, hairdresser or owner of the mechanical plant. They will have no advantage from this amendment. In addition, it concerns provisions concerning the Social Dialogue Council. The fact that the Prime Minister, on the basis of these provisions, would be able to choose his composition or influence the composition of this important consultative body will have no meaning for the company in the special economic zone, nor for the mason who would like to continue his profession. And thirdly, the provisions concerning specific, strangely special, powers of the voivodeship, which could take away the tasks and competences of certain public administrations, including, as I understand, also of local authorities. I don't know if from the fact that a conflicted voivode or a more party feud than a official duty would have taken away his authority from some mayor, mayor or president, and given it to a colleague from the neighbouring commune, he would have some protection from a Polish farmer, a Polish gardener. A company that employs dozens of people, does not deal with politics, does not care who belongs to whom and to which party, simply wants to act calmly. Mr. Senator, it's been 20 minutes. Finally, I would like to say that I have just tabled amendments, so that these 3 solutions should also be deleted from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a report on the work of our committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 28 March 2020 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Our report is in print No. 96 B. We recommend to the High House the adoption of 33 amendments that have been prepared and adopted by our committee. Senator Pęk said we had more time to amend this bill. Rather, I would say that on our side, on the side of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, there was greater determination. We started almost at the same time, we started working on this law less than half an hour later, but we really focused on those amendments that were important, which allow this law to enter into force. The vast majority of the amendments which we considered to be useful in this law are amendments which have been positively assessed by the government, unless only 2 amendments are excluded, all other amendments have been recommended by Minister Emilewicz. In addition, at the committee meeting with Minister Emilewicz and with all the other ministers, we worked very well and substantively together. If the senators, but also those who watch us and listen, whenever they look at this bill, they will see that its design is very complicated. We at the committee meeting pointed out that the weakness of this law is also the way of building it, that it is a law in which there are articles built so that in order to reach them, it is necessary to be a high-end lawyer. And we would like the law, the rules to be built in a way that is understandable not only for professionals, but also for those concerned. Some articles... e.g. Article 2 15 has... There is, for example. Article 2 15zzp, 3 times, then pa, and there are also numbers. Really, it is very difficult to get to what the case is about. That is why we are commended to our lawyers from the Legislative Office, who only had yesterday, and not all to read this law, prepare opinions and present various kinds of doubts. At the committee meeting, we pointed out that this bill... Senator Szejnfeld spoke of her weaknesses here. I don't want to repeat all this because he's referred to all the substantive issues that are very important. Maybe some of them will later be converted directly into amendments, some are minority proposals. We have not introduced such complex proposals, but we have pointed out that around the same time a law was adopted, which is also such a great law, actually a large package of laws dealing with the problem of coritos in Germany. I don't want to look like a Germanophile here, because it often happens to us or to accuse me here, but the ways of proceeding over this bill there and here are completely different, there is a simple way that doesn't arouse such emotions, although there also these laws were not accepted without a doubt. What we lack, and what is the advantage of laws passed e.g. In the Bundestag, in the Bundesrat? The point is, it's a starting point. And that's what we've been paying attention to. There was a problem with the amendment of the budget law, the fact that, in principle, the financing contained in this law is so complicated that it is difficult to decipher correctly and unambiguously. That is why in public space there are various amounts that are devoted to the fight against the coronavirus. The Prime Minister says it's 220 or 212 billion zlotys, other ministers say it's 30, others say it's 50 etc. There's no clarity here. There is therefore no amendment to the budget law for 2020, which states that we are spending this and this amount on the fight against the coronavirus, e.g. That's 200 billion zlotys, isn't it? It would be clearly visible, it would be obvious that this is a budget deficit, that some should also be allocated for flooding holes resulting from tax deficits, etc., etc. It would be clear that this amount and society would then know that from our common taxes and taxes of the future, those that will have to be paid, we are spending such money to fight this year. Then the citizens of our country would say: we agree to this, a difficult time, a painful operation, we even agree to have our children or grandchildren pay it back in the future, but we have to deal with it today. In this law, it is precisely such a mechanism that the citizen sees that he bears the costs of the entire operation, he cannot be seen. I think this is one of the greatest weaknesses of this bill. This one law contains a great deal of solutions, solutions for many different kinds of laws, hence it is complicated. Here's another thing. This bill... Of course, you can't go through the Koravirus crisis painlessly, that's almost everyone knows. But at the same time, they all expect that this problem, these shortages, will somehow be patched up by the money that will appear, that it will make a contribution to everyone. Of course, that's impossible, too. So the question was: are all the social groups, or are all, so to speak, areas of our public life more or less at a comparable cost in the present and in the future? This question concerned the costs of entrepreneurs, micro-entrepreneurs, even though they will receive support in various institutions, etc. They will all receive support, but this support will never cover all their losses due to the problems that have arisen. There was also a question at the committee meeting: whether, for example. the entire administration area will also be affected to some extent? If we all need to focus, tighten and limit, then whether it really applies to everyone. In this context even the issue of the unfortunate 2 billion PLN for public television, which was so easily signed somewhere in a hurry, and yet we were shouted out to various people that we were doing something wrong here. So it's just about seeing it in a broader context. Therefore, it appeared at a committee meeting e.g. the question about these laws, which in the Senate had been tried before, and have not yet been voted by the Sejm, e.g. It's about the sugar bill. The rejection of this law came from us, because it imposes additional tax obligations. In this case there was also no full clarity, it was not known what would happen to this law. It seems that this bill, according to our intention, with the intention of the Senate, should be moved for another time. There was also a question, because there's a problem, or for example... We are talking about the fact that there are still very high salaries of board members in the Treasury companies. If the costs are to be charged to ordinary simple workers, the question arises whether this reduction of expenditure will also be at the level of the boards of these companies of the Treasury. And the other important thing. This bill has many advantages, apart from those weaknesses that Senator Szejnfeld has already mentioned here, I do not want to remind them of now. It has many advantages, which could also be advantages for the future, because it introduces various types of deregulation or simplification of procedures. And I'd love to... Besides, the Minister is very pleased with these records. But the weakness of this law is that all these deregulating records after the end of the Coronavirus epidemic have, so to speak, to be extinguished, so once again we will all fall into the modes of complicated administration, procedures, various other things, etc. So the question arises: why could these things not remain as a permanent solution? That question was kindly answered by the Minister, that is also her intention. I think it is because we know the Minister from various other speeches. So if this operation were successful, it could be a small success after this severe illness. Now, one more thing we have pointed out is that after this epidemic, after this great experience, we will emerge as a society other people, that there will be changes greater than we think, changes in social life, economic organisation, administration organisation. Even today, you can see that what seemed impossible, although today it is very limping... In any case, you can see that many things can be done in a more simplified way, over the Internet, over the phone, working at a distance. This is also a completely new experience that we will have after all this. And now the corrections. I'm not gonna discuss them all here because like I said, It's over 30... that's 33 fixes. I would focus on those amendments that caused the most controversy. We've made an amendment... We say this: we are the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, in fact we should be dealing with financial matters and with the boundaries of finance and the economy, and that is the idea of this law. But there are a number of provisions in this bill that raise widespread controversy, including the electoral code law. We here have accepted an amendment that throws this whole area away from this point of view. And here, at this point, the most controversy emerged. I, who was the applicant of this amendment, recognised and said that it was absolutely unconstitutional, based on the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, even perhaps twice, so that the Constitution refers directly to it. PS colleagues thought everything was okay, that it's good, that it's extraordinary, wonderful, etc. We asked the government's position on this. The Minister told us that this matter, this problem was not in the government statement, that it was put by Members somewhere at night, so the Minister does not refer to the matter. She said something even more optimistic about this case, but I don't want to do the Minister, maybe the Minister will tell you herself so that it doesn't happen that I, for example. I am slightly twisting my opinion on the issue of elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this is so... This bill is huge. It's almost 200... No. How many pages is that? There's still... These are 183 pages, which means it's very large. Only that the issue of ordination itself, only the electoral code was devoted to six pages. If it were such a small matter, it would not be discussed in this way, and here on 6 pages is the issue of changing the election system. The same six pages would be enough for one separate bill. If it had been adopted in accordance with the principles of electoral law, i.e. six months before the election period, it would be beautiful, neat, small, readable, understood the bill, but pressed here between an apple and a cucumber is just pointless. And that's why we threw this case away. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] The second thing I'm still paying attention to is... Oh, this is, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment Thirty-first, and it concerns Article. 40, that's election... And an amendment to the Social Dialogue Council... This amendment is no longer extensive on many sides, it is part of one side, but it has also been connected to this issue in a strange way, which is why we propose to eliminate it too, because this issue is incomprehensible to us here. Although I would still have to verify it, because I couldn't check all of it thoroughly. Here, this is a special right for the Prime Minister, who says that a member of the Council of Dialogue shall be appealed if this member embezzles the work of the Council, leading to a lack of possibility to conduct a transparent, substantive and regular dialogue between workers' organisations, employers and the government party. These are no longer transitional provisions related only to the coronavirus, only they are already on the Fest, permanently etc. How can one say that such advice is trustworthy if the Prime Minister can at any time revoke its member? 'Cause there's always a reason if someone says something louder... If it occurred, for example. Marshal Kaminski here, if he were a member of such a council, he would surely be called off because he would always say something that might not fit one or another Prime Minister. And here... Well, using me as a parallel... That's because I value your speeches. I took that fact with some shyness, but thank you. But you can also, and this has been written, lose this membership if you were a secret co-worker, etc., etc. That's another matter, I don't know if it should be in this bill. It's me, I hope, at all... Oh! Ladies and gentlemen... It doesn't apply to me for biological reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be basically what I would like to say about this bill. Now we'd like it to actually work well and work well. Finally, the Minister told us at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance And it seems that this is going to happen, and it's not going to happen otherwise. That there will probably be amendments to this law or completely new laws related to this problem, so we have been so limited in making amendments. The amendments to this law are indeed very difficult matter. I would like to emphasise further, and we stressed this at the committee meeting, that the starting point for resolving this problem of the Koravirus crisis should be the budgetary issue, the issue of amending the budget law, i.e. showing in a simple, transparent, uncomplicated, readable and understandable way for all of us where and what resources we have. Today, according to the old method, it is shoved around corners, made with such different steps and no one knows where, how and where the money is from. I ask the High House to accept the amendments which have been prepared and adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u21	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I'm also asking the senators in the other halls to draw up a list of senators who would like to ask questions, and hand them over... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There are no calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak during this debate. In his opening speech, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has already presented most of the objectives for which we have worked. And I will only refer strictly and precisely both to Senator Szejnfeld's speech and to what you have said. First of all, I would like to thank you for today's committee work. It wasn't temporary work, it was a fair and long discussion. It was also, I think, on our part, open to many amendments, and I am talking about amendments especially to all economic parts. At the same time, I would like to thank all of you who took part in the consultations we had with all the parliamentary clubs last week. We have also conducted this consultation with representatives of employers and the social side, with full awareness that we have been working on these solutions in staff mode. A situation of great uncertainty makes the bill submitted to you certainly not a masterpiece of legislative work. We are fully aware of many shortcomings. And thank you here. also the Senate Legislative Office, which drew attention to many of the shortcomings that we have been able to improve today. With regard to Senator Szejnfeld's speech, however, I would say that, given the size of this law and the number of legal acts it changes, the number of these amendments was an accident. Consider, too, that some of them have been brought to the attention of the Legislative Office. I'd be less prickly about the shortcomings that the senator was kind enough to draw our attention to. Yes, I agree that the situation is extraordinarily outrageous. And it's about the bill we're proposing. We are trying to include the aid package that the senators have mentioned, which is both those elements related to the maintenance of liquidity and the maintenance of jobs... We try to comprehensively, broadly approach all, both those self-employed, those on contracts-orders and works contracts, small companies and micro-enterprises, as well as those of larger economic operators. For each of these entities there is an offer under this Act. You're gonna ask me a question: are these enough resources? I think that no one today is fully convinced to answer the question whether these measures will be complete and sufficient. What I can declare to you, and what we, all the representatives of the government who have worked on this law, can say, is that we certainly will not lack the determination to provide further solutions if necessary and so will be the demands of the moment. Senator Szejnfeld was gracious to say that the direction was right, only the execution was wrong. Of course, I humbly accept this remark. But I assure you that we have made every effort to ensure that this offer we are making here is well received by the market and that all of this will enter into force very quickly. We've talked and we're talking here, as I said, about the entire employee segment. If we're talking about micro-enterprises, those employing 1 and 9 employees who will be exempt from social security contributions for 3 months... Mr. Senator was kind enough to pay attention, too. for the solution that we propose, namely for a micro-loan, he asked how much it was enough. I suggest, Senator, that we be honest and tell those who listen to us, i.e. entrepreneurs that for each of them this offer is combined. Thus, a micro-entrepreneur who is exempt from social security contributions can also benefit from the parking and thus reduce part of the employee's work to half-time and benefit to this half of the staff from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, which will pay half of his salary to that worker. Some of them may work with a 20% reduction in their work. And their remuneration can also cover half of the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. If we add to this the above mentioned exemption from social security contributions, this micro-credit and the cost-free withdrawal during all taxes, we will receive the full, real package that we have under this law for the micro-entrepreneur. Not single... Let's not just talk about the micro-loan. Each of the entrepreneurs can benefit from all the solutions we propose here, and therefore the real micro-entrepreneur can reduce the fixed costs of running his business by around 80%. If we are talking about other solutions, as has already been mentioned here, for the first time in an unprecedented manner, we are addressing the offer of assistance to those who are employed for work contracts and contract-orders. I am very pleased that today the opposition representatives, so to speak, speak generously about the need to support all entrepreneurs, including those employed on the basis of the agreements we are talking about, from the state budget. I regret that there has been a lack of this determination over the past years for us to carry out a project that will cover all these people's compulsory social security. Because it is in the crisis we find ourselves in today's situation that we use the funds we collect from the insured persons in the guaranteed benefit fund or in the Labour Fund or the Social Insurance Institution. As I say, we reach, but this is a parallel, because additional funds for payments will come from the new fund that we are creating under this law, a fund that will be at the disposal of the President of the Council of Ministers. This fund will fund those sources from which we will cover all the benefits contained in this Act. Again, the senator said it wasn't enough. At the moment we are proposing what is here and now, because we want in April, in these coming days, to calm the situation and to give certainty to all Poles. Because although it will be skinny weeks and probably skinny months, we will be able to spread burdens between ourselves in proportion and we will also be able to pass through the stormy sea with a dry foot as far as possible, although the costs will certainly be borne by all of us. In addition to the above-mentioned parking or support for plants which have reduced capacity to produce or provide services, there are also liquidity solutions in this law. We also mentioned them. Let us just remind you that in addition to this micro-loan, we are introducing a loan subsidy fund that is set up by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. We know that the costs associated with the repayment of loans, with the repayment of such liabilities, are also one of the difficult costs, fixed costs. And here, on the one hand, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego creates a new fund under this law, and on the other hand... If we combine this with the President's initiative last week and a signed agreement with the banks under which the banks will give the so-called. It's a loan vacation... This is also an element that improves liquidity among entrepreneurs. As far as the labour market is concerned, I would like to mention a number of elements that stabilise this market. Here, it is worth mentioning the automatic extension of threads such as employee research, which, if their deadline expires during the epidemic, are automatically extended. This also applies to disability decisions or incapacity for work, which are also automatically renewed. What's also important for many industries, because in Poland we have 2 million foreigners on the labour market, both visas and work permits, if they expire during the epidemic, are automatically extended until the outbreak is over and 60 days after the end of that period. I would therefore like to say, in reply to the opening question, which is not adequate to the bill that we discussed earlier in the speech by Marshal Kaminski, whether we are prepared... It's hard today... Let us ask this question to all governments in the world who are struggling with a very dynamic, extremely variable situation every day. But when it comes to the number of diseases, the predictability of what happens next week is very limited. We try to take advantage of the experiences of those who fought the pandemic 2 months earlier. We're looking at what happened in the Asian countries. The measures taken by our government by Minister Szumowski's initiatives are, it seems, the most appropriate, because we are the growth curve. we systematically flatten cases. This also has, of course, an impact on the state and condition of the Polish economy. We hope that these instruments that the market needs very much today... And that is why I call on the senators to accept these economic solutions, with full awareness that if they are not perfect, if they require further work, we are ready to sit down tomorrow for these further work. As the senators have said, we do not believe that we are the owners of the only truth and knowledge that success If we take it back, we'll take it back. It will be the success of one or the other political camp. If we succeed, it will be the success of Poland. I hope that as this bill will be. I'm sure of it. The result of cooperation over political divisions, so we can have its good consequences, and we will discuss the good consequences together, as a historical case, in a few or several weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. I would never in my life allow myself to abuse this position and place. As defined by: Marshal of the Senate It's for polemics. But since the Minister was gracious to mention me in her speech, I will only say this: my speech was not inadequate, it was an opening speech about a team of laws, of which the health bill was the first, but it was part of the debate about the coronavirus. And the question I'm asking is, anyway, the current question: are we ready? But that, of course, is a historical question in some way. Anyway, thank you very much, Minister, for this speech. Now I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, if there are senators who have expressed their willingness to be the Minister of Questions. Because there are no senators like that, I'm shutting it down. And I'm opening a discussion. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to draw up a list of those who would like to speak and then send this list to Senator Alexander Schwed. I remind you of the speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators on duty in the Chamber. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I was obliged to submit a report. Now I'd like to say a few words from myself, more as a politician. I was especially mobilized to do this by Marshal Michael Kaminski and Senator Szejnfeld, because I believe that many unfair words about the anti-crisis shield came out of their mouth. Firstly, it must be stressed once again that we are dealing with a situation that has never been the case. No economy is ready for this crisis. No economic, financial power is ready for this crisis. No administration is ready for him and no health care is ready for him. Well, you can see very clearly. The scale of the disease, the death toll does not avoid the best-developed countries, the incredibly developed health services, social services, very efficient countries with very wealthy budgets. So, looking at the situation of Poland as if in proportion Both epidemiologically, this medical, medical struggle, and in the context of the current reaction of the Polish government in the form of this package of laws, you need to have great satisfaction, because it is a very versatile, very responsible, very well thought out, very well composed and addressed response. Of course, there are mistakes, but I find it kind of petty to call here, probably for the tenth time today, these editorial units in the bill... So what if some of the rules have numbering with At this point, these are really third- or fourth-grade cases and we should not focus on them, we should definitely not focus on the legislation of this law. It is important to look at all of this in such a way that we are dealing with an efficient, responsible state at the moment. I think that for many years Poles had a huge problem with the fact that the state did not have social sensitivity, did not have good communication with society. I, the Civic Platform, would like to remind you of the situation of the 2009 crisis, which then was the announcements of ministers, prime ministers, which public funds were then allocated to help entrepreneurs. Well, in some areas there was no response to the crisis. Of course, this crisis was different, but I am convinced that if Donald Tusk were the head of the Polish government today and Mrs Ewa Kopacz was the Minister of Health, we would have a much more difficult situation and a much worse response. However, I would expect more humility from you because you are not a good example of a functioning government, a government with social sensitivity and one that leans over the average citizen's existence. Indeed, this crisis, unlike the previous one, cannot be patched up in such a way that we are transferring huge money to the banking system, it is a much deeper crisis and there are many more unknowns here. In fact, we don't know anything, the perspective in which we move is the perspective of a few weeks, maybe a couple of months. Of course, we very much hope that all these actions of the Polish state, actions Once again, I would like to stress that. The often ahead of even the most efficient developed countries will lead to the fact that we will soon be able to master the epidemic, because this is, of course, a fundamental task. However, the biggest challenge of the economy today is that the situation of such general paralysis, social, economic, state, does not last very long. If it lasts too long... There is no economy in the world that could constantly pack up billions of zlotys so that this crisis could be patched up. So let's not create such a demagogy that if this shield were 100 billion bigger, it would solve all the problems. Let's not create false hopes, because we have to measure our forces against our intentions, we have to see what the efficiency of public finances is. This capacity is the best in history today, there's never been such a financial reserve, there's never been so well-defined parameters, macroeconomic parameters, public debt, unemployment, economic growth. Well, we're all taking advantage of it now. In addition, I would like to emphasise here in particular that in the current situation, and so far we hear assurances and these are credible assurances, there is nothing wrong with financing all the social programmes that we have addressed to Poles. The fact that the average Polish family currently benefits from the package it will benefit from With programmes such as 500+, such as higher pensions, like all the other social programmes that we have addressed over recent years, this is also a huge measure, a huge tool to try to deal with the current crisis. I believe that this first reaction of the Polish state, the Polish government, is good. This is certainly not the last reaction, there will be further legislation. I am simply asking my fellow senate colleagues to comply with certain arrangements which here on such a gentlemanly basis We'll take it. Because before noon today I was convinced that on the side of the Senate majority, however, there is awareness that the amendments cannot be too much. At this point, we cannot sculpt in this bill to extend the legislative process for more hours or days. Now I find that the number of amendments tabled by you has increased quite strongly. These are amendments that require processing, many hours of legislative work. I'm afraid that's the way it's gonna go down in the Senate's Legal Office. And the Sejm is waiting for the Senate's amendments. The Seym wants to meet tomorrow. After all, there was an agreement between the Senate Marshal and the President of the Republic of Poland that this law should be placed on the President's desk by the end of March. The Poles are waiting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. About the amendments... Mr. Senator, I would very much ask you to speak in order. The next speaker is Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the fundamental amendments of our circle, the PSL wheels, the coalition of Poland, will be submitted by the president of our circle, Senator Ryszard Bober, who speaks for me. I'm going to refer to what Senator Pop-Pop was talking about. Well, we're sitting in a rather extraordinary situation. But it is that, as I understand it, some of the amendments to this bill came from the government, even though the law was adopted on Friday. So, as I understand it, between Friday and Monday, the government also felt that the bill was not so perfect, and there are certain shortcomings, however, since between Friday and Monday it was considered that certain issues should be changed. I would like to say that I, for my part, would like to make three minor amendments, in addition to these amendments to our circle. The first is for cooperatives to have the same ease of operation and reporting as companies governed by commercial law. The second one relates to this. It was a request from a former senator, Senator Antoni Szymanski, Senator of Law and Justice of last term. In order to facilitate certain forms of work for judicial guardians, i.e. So that they can do some of their duties remotely. And finally, the third amendment. She may be consistent with what Senator Szejnfeld said. It is about employment in special economic zones, but it is about giving the government here the opportunity to loosen up some of the rigors that are covered by special economic zones, where, well, we are all affected by the crisis. If this amendment I'm about to make is consistent with what Senator Szejnfeld said because I don't know exactly what it is. Of course, I'm ready to withdraw it. But only in a situation where it would be factually consistent with what Senator Szejnfeld was reporting as a minority rapporteur. I also want to be very clear, without any malice here, that when we received the bill discussed here last night from Friday to Saturday, I took the liberty of passing it on to 4 or 5 entrepreneurs from my constituency. One of them is a furniture manufacturer employing 900 employees, who just shut down on Friday for at least a month, for a start, and let these people go home. And I asked for the so-called. feedback after reading the bill. Well, none of these feedbacks indicated that one of these gentlemen found something for himself in this bill, something that would help him in his current operation. That's what I'm describing. I'm not saying that to pick on things. Because we're all in a pretty special situation. Yeah, but it's worth noticing. I think that there will be relatively much more amendments and amendments to this law. And finally, I want to say yes. I know the finance committee took care of it because there was a problem. And you seem to be making some kind of amendment. It seems that the deadlines resulting from the Code of Administrative Procedure have been extended, but it was not entirely clear whether it also covered the Code of Civil Procedure. But I do know because I've been told something that, I think, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has been working on it. So much for me. Let me ask you from the secretariat to come to me so I can pass on these three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we are working at a very difficult time and we need to go through this with very great care and peace. We are facing a pandemic whose scale we are not yet able to predict, but we know that all And I stress that: we are all equal to this pandemic, not only in Poland. This pandemic is a challenge for the whole world. We are on the eve of the great economic crisis caused by it, the effects of which we are also unable to fully assess, but we know that in this crisis we must support the people of our country, all of them, without exception. I would like us to realise that our decisions here and now depend on what condition we will go through all these crises. Our decisions in this House will depend on the future of millions of Poles and Poles. Health and security do not have political colors, the economic crisis that Poles will soon have to face, and there is no political sympathy, and this is not the time for a political fight. Today, one thing matters: Poles expect us to introduce legal changes that will help them in their daily lives, which will secure their families and guarantee them some economic stability. It is the task and responsibility of politicians and it is the responsibility of the government. And what does the ruling party do now? Where is this real help for workers and entrepreneurs? Millions of citizens are waiting for real help, and at the same time the government transfers tens of billions of zlotys to big financial institutions. The package adopted by the PiS is a disc, but a cardboard disc, because the country that leaves nurses, doctors and health professionals in a crisis is itself a cardboard state. Do you know that hospitals lack basic protective measures: masks, gloves, aprons, suits, trimmings and hygiene products? People need to organize this for themselves. I know that because I talk to doctors, I know, because I make them myself. As many Poles, with their collaborators I neck masks and aprons. Do you know that in some hospitals nurses make masks out of disposable towels and clip them? This is the Polish reality. You just couldn't do it. Fortunately, we have a society that can mobilize during this difficult time. From this point on, I would like to thank everyone very warmly for their work: medical personnel, doctors, nurses, paramedics, all those who are protecting the health of our citizens at this difficult time, all hospitals and institutions. I would also like to thank those citizens who make masks, aprons, they produce helmets for their own money or organize collections for it; those who shop for doctors working in hospitals; those who deliver food to hospitals; those who shop for their neighbors. Today is the time to talk over divisions, not the time to argue. But again, what happened to that bill? What did the PiS do under the cover of the night? By breaking all standards, breaking the constitution, acting contrary to the Constitutional Court's judgments, the electoral code has been amended. Is it really time to amend the electoral law that the pandemic of Coronavirus and the crisis at our doorstep? Is it really time to win the election when we're dead? Is that the most important thing at this point? I will remind you that the electoral code does not change during the ongoing election campaign, it does not change six months before the election, and the proposed amendment does not vote at night, but after talking to experts, after some time since it was tabled. Do elections really have to be organized at all costs? Did you see what happened in France? How many people working in committees are infected there today? Hundreds of thousands of people are at risk, and yet human life has no specific value, it is priceless and more important than nightly changes in electoral law. Next line. For weeks, even though there was a promise, there was a gentleman's agreement, the trial of the Senate's Anti-Cordroid Act has been stopped. Under this condition, the law was adopted quickly, without amendment. Work is being stopped to clarify the rules governing the exercise of remote work outside the place where the work is carried out, the possibility of controlling it and the right to supplementary care for parents of older children The law passed by the Sejm concerned only children up to the age of eight. What about 9-year-olds? What about the 10-year-olds? They don't need custody anymore? Hundreds of thousands of students and their parents don't know what their future is. What about prom exams? What about eighth grade exams? The remote education system doesn't work. The servers are down. Thousands of children have been forgotten who simply don't have computers. Why don't they have them? Because they can't afford it. Schools, libraries, cultural centres are closed today. Where are these kids supposed to use computers? How are they supposed to prepare for the exams? How are they supposed to learn? With counters and calculators? It was only today that you thought of organizing some aid plans from April. What if there's one computer in the house, if there's three or four kids and parents who can't afford to buy another one? Maybe they'll lose their jobs, maybe they won't get paid. Of course you can look at local governments, but they won't solve all the problems, they won't do it for the government. I am asking for these families because education on equal terms is a constitutional right of our citizens, it is a human right. And the children whose only warm meal during the day was lunch at school? Have they stopped being hungry since they were at home? Do you know that more than 0.5 million children in Poland are hungry or malnourished? These are estimates of the Polish Red Cross. As part of the crisis, the government wants to give shock therapy to citizens and allow them to reduce salaries, to extend working time, to reduce citizens' rights. A provision on possible property loss is introduced. The principle reflected in Article is violated. 46th Constitution, which states that a misdemeanor can only happen by a final judgment of the court. The Ombudsman drew attention to this. Under this law, you want to deprive citizens of their freedom for failing to do anything, I repeat: any order of police officers or Border Guards, while they still have the means to compel them to do so. It's an extreme repressive act of criminal law. The introduction of an obligation to change once the preventive measure is contrary to the principle of judicial independence. You're talking about urgent matters that have to be settled by the courts. You give the Presidents of the courts the freedom to recognise which case will be urgent, and you forget the mandatory catalogue of alimony cases, the determination of their amount. What are families supposed to live for? You're forgetting about your relationship with your child, and it could have a serious impact on your relationship with your parents. Finally, you're forgetting things about ordering the perpetrator to leave his residence for violence in the family. The family's still going to live with a violent man, and they're still in quarantine. Coronavirus pandemic causes a deep crisis in the labour market. According to estimates of the National Chamber of Commerce, 320 and 480 000 people may lose their jobs in an optimistic option or over 1 million in a pessimistic option. It is already known that in the sectors most affected by the epidemic there will be significant job losses: in hotels, gastronomy, restaurants, passenger car transport, in the automotive industry. That is why we need to put in place concrete safeguards and concrete solutions, we need to secure millions of Polish and Polish portfolios, but not only those who work for a contract of employment, also those who work on the basis of a different form of employment. Remember, there are over 2 million of them. There's no permission to lower employees' salaries. The State, and this is the amendment made by the Left, should finance 75% the remuneration of the staff member. The State must assume this obligation if the company has recorded a decrease in turnover or sales of goods and services, provided that the employer maintains the level of remuneration and employment of employees. The State must help entrepreneurs in real terms and not in illusory terms, and therefore must cover fixed costs during this epidemic, such as energy charges, rents, leasings, loans. Only this will enable entrepreneurs to survive the pandemic period and return to their activities after the epidemic has ended. Because we have to remember that there will be time after the coronavirus, and then it will be in the interest of all of us to immediately start working. The aid should also be granted to local authorities as they will also suffer losses from lost income from PIT and CIT and must continue to carry out their tasks without obstacles. What I'm talking about is real help, not illusory aid, state aid for people, their wallets, jobs, and wages. Miss Marshal, 12 minutes. Last sentence. The shield we're considering today is supposed to be anti-crisis, not anti-working, not anti-entrepreneurial and not anti-constitutional. I hope that today a bill will come out of this House, which will really help millions of Poles and Poles at this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u29	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u30	Today, we need first and foremost responsibility, credibility, solidarity and reliable information. We don't have it. We've got the right mess. But despite the fact that the bill, as the Minister said, is not a legislative masterpiece, we will support it. We can make it so that the president can sign it tomorrow in the sense of responsibility for the situation and in the face of its horror, in the sense of responsibility for the health of the citizens, but also in order to solidarity with the government in the fight against the coronavirus. The second thing I would like to ask for, however, is for these legislative processes to give a right that is clear, understandable to the public, for economic operators and adequate to the situation. Let me remind you that the Senate has been ready to cooperate with the government since the beginning of March. I'd rather forget what was done to our draft laws on March 13th. This was proof of the lack of relevance and speed of action. What is important and important to me in these solutions is, of course, what concerns the most vulnerable, i.e. those who first and most painfully feel the effects of the pandemic. But I will draw attention to the proposals for amendments in the various groups that the Civic Coalition has prepared with coalitioners. First, health, second, third, also health, especially for those who fight for this health on behalf of all of us. The safety of all medical personnel. We want the 20 billion that come from European funds to be stressed: the European funds, as soon as possible, are in health care, improving the safety of the most sensitive service at the moment. It seems today that this is Task No. 1, on which you have to pay particular attention, and you have to remember that there can be no financial constraints in this particular matter. By proposing financial resources for health care, we also propose the mandatory testing for medical services, the obligation to make them every week. And he doesn't walk around here. just thinking about health care, because thinking about health care in this situation is also thinking about health care, patient safety. If this first element fails, they'll fail all the others. In particular, I stress what was the subject of our colleague, Mrs Gorgon: health care today, before the pandemic summit, is in a situation threatening the lives of her workers and, as a result, the lives of other citizens. The second thing, very important, is this social block. We don't make a lot of amendments. We, the senators, through my person, but also others, have reported them before, to the Sejm. Part was accepted, part rejected. If the majority were accepted, we wouldn't have to debate today. But today, in this social area, we pay particular attention to the necessity I stress: the need for a parent whose child is not over 12 years old and, unfortunately, needs to be taken care of at home. This is very important. We've calculated the cost, that's 1 billion 700 million. Less than it went on TV. It seems that our proposed compromise with regard to the proposals that were made in the Seym or earlier is necessary for adoption and will be a specific barometer of accuracy in responding to those expectations which are being built precisely in the context of dialogue, opposition dialogue and dialogue for the benefit of citizens. I'm not going to develop it. The need to protect NGOs at the level we can afford. These are not exaggerated expectations, but we really need to do it, as with people of the world of culture, educators, artists, artistic institutions, and consequently also for local governments. One amendment also speaks of the necessary protection of the world of culture. A world that is always weaker, especially in situations of any crisis. Of course, we are also talking about this economic block, and Adam Szejnfeld was the biggest one talking about it. We've held back our various projects, our ideas. I will immediately say that several hundred amendments were tabled to these laws. My fellow senators are sitting in these 3 rooms, knowing that due to the time of their amendments they will not be considered. There have been much fewer reports of about 5, maybe 6%. But taking them seriously means taking seriously the scale of the challenge that we have outside. And that's what I'm calling for. In these economic amendments, the most important elements are the rescue of jobs. I would like to make it clear that today the cost of responding to this situation in terms of saving jobs will be much lower than in three months' time when these posts will no longer be and will not be able to be recreated. I also stress what is very important and important, that all these State burdens related to the Social Security Office, related to taxes, occasionally leases, loans, etc. you have to try to simplify and bring about a situation such as that when serious problems arise from Coronavirus, entrepreneurs can act quickly and efficiently. It's not conducive to this. I'm gonna point that out right away. Nearly 30 new administrative procedures. They will complicate access to what the government itself offers. And in my opinion, that's crucial. The clarity and clarity of the message. I'm glad you're in this room. Also among the rulers, there are wordings under which, at least in part, I can sign. Senator Pop said, "We don't know anything." Then let's do some tests. Then let's do tests, tests, tests. We'll know more. Where there are sources of danger, where there are sick people, who are asymptomatic carriers, where there are major threats in the medical service. Let's run some tests, let's stress again: let's do some tests. And like Mrs. Beata Małecka-Libera said, let's do it first, mandatoryly, often, for medical services, but also for all those workers who care about our safety, also protecting health care, that is, let's do it for police officers, firefighters, for all those who today have the right to expect from the government, the Sejm and the Senate a sense of responsibility for human health and life. And finally, I'm gonna say that it's unacceptable to have these uploads that were, in short, unconstitutional. They appeared in relation to the election campaign, to special powers of police officers, meaningless and unnecessary, not related to the coronavirus. There have also been temptations concerning NGO institutions. From my point of view, it's outrageous. What about the Social Dialogue Council? How can such an amendment be made in such a situation? What's the point of trying to interfere? I don't get it. It seems that we are dealing in this matter with some absolute arrogance. I would like to see more truth, seriousness, and above all responsibility, reliability and reliability in terms of information. That's what I wish not only for the government, not just for us, but for all those who are on the front line right now, fighting the coronavirus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Marshal has probably already learned from earlier statements, what this will of cooperation is like, this outstretched hand. If each of these votes had been treated separately, it would have probably turned out that each of the senators who tabled amendments, who were talking about the necessary changes to the rules, was right. It's just that when we put this together, it's gonna look like we need to help big and small businesses and health care and students and teachers and parents. In fact, each Pole deserves more than is proposed in this law. I've been trying to tally these corrections a little bit, and I'm getting tens, maybe hundreds of billions. Well, only when we get them in writing will we be able to assess their effects. Many of us have probably forgotten that less than three months ago we welcomed 2020. Less than 3 months ago, information came to Poland that the epidemic is developing in China, it is developing in the Far East. It was only two months ago that the epidemic broke out in Europe. The first cases were actually reported at the time. 5 weeks ago these cases began to go into tens, and in some countries hundreds. The first case in Poland was recorded 26 days ago, and 15 days ago, so after a few days after the first cases appeared, we introduced the first restrictions both on movement and on the work of certain commercial units and institutions. Well, seven days ago, the scope of these restrictions was further expanded. I say this to illustrate that time in the face of an epidemic runs completely differently. What happened yesterday, the day before yesterday, a few days ago, seems very distant. Already in the first month of fighting the epidemic in Poland I will remind you that the first case appeared on 4 March, we are working in the Senate on a law adopted by the Sejm, prepared by the government to facilitate the operation of companies that are supposed to support companies and to assist workers, which we forget too often. Indeed, this aid is intended to go to workers and employers. Thanks to the budget... He hasn't signed yet, and some say that this budget should be changed by now. Well, there's not even a formal possibility of changing the budget, which isn't a document yet. It's not signed... A balanced budget... He should be... We can provide assistance of PLN 212 billion, but this aid must be provided quickly, because at the end of the month, at the latest by the 10th day of the following month, so by April 10th, all companies in Poland must pay their employees a salary. That's where we need help. This help is written down in these solutions. 40% It's not enough. By April 10 or 15 you have to pay contributions to the Social Security Office for March. The exemption from these contributions is also urgent and necessary. Payment of parking benefits for contractors and self-employed persons in the amount of over PLN 2 000. Not much, but it's as much as many Poles have to live a whole month. Protecting consumers from excessive price increases This has not yet been mentioned here today. Or to ensure the liquidity of companies, which will be implemented under the Development Institution System Act, which we will discuss in a moment. These 3 laws are a set of laws called an anti-crisis shield. There will be no effective fight against the coronavirus, if everyone will submit corrections if everyone will submit their ideas, can one by one correct, but causing disturbances in the system, acting at random and not giving comprehensive solutions. This bill is on here and now. The Prime Minister was talking about it, the Minister was talking about it. Unfortunately, we will have to implement further solutions, I hope, even after the epidemic, at a time when in other countries the economic impact will be greater than in Poland. Our exports, which is the basis for the operation of a large part of the farms, will have to go back for a long time before the epidemic. We often do not realize the situation in which we live. There was a chance that these laws would be passed over the divisions. That's why you had your president's meetings, consultations, conversations, that's why you were working in the Sejm. Here in the Senate, I hear only the voices of those who unfortunately want to take advantage of the situation and submit amendments. Maybe it's the right thing to do on a case-by-case basis. That don't solve the basic problem. And this is about helping those who need it most as soon as possible. I ask that those senators who have tabled amendments withdraw them so that we can adopt the bill as soon as possible and so that we can pass it to the Sejm today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the floor of Senator Richard Bober, who, like Senator Bogucki, is in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Senators' Circle, Coalition Poland I would like to make a few amendments to the Polish People's Party. There was a lot of talk during this discussion about the financial liquidity of companies. The financial result is important, but liquidity is more important. That is why we are proposing an amendment on the creation of a liquidity fund within the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This will allow companies to get through difficult situations smoothly. It's a cost-free amendment, it doesn't give rise to burdens. It will enable the creation of a fund that will respond to such difficult situations. In fact, the next amendment concerns the agricultural package. I would ask the senators here to support this amendment in particular in the name of decency and solidarity between people. It concerns this... the agricultural day is calculated on the basis of the average pension, which is PLN 926. This amount divided by 30 days per month gives the amount of approx. 30 PLN. Our amendment refers to the fact that this average agricultural day is counted against the minimum wage. This will allow Polish families and, above all, farmers to survive the difficult situation if their farm were quarantined. They are also excluded from this activity of agrotourism farms. However, this is a different activity than tourism and we therefore ask that agritourism farms also be included in this difficult situation, which will help them during a difficult period. Finally, the ZUS amendment package. The main point is that companies and entrepreneurs really can pay the ZUS voluntarily. I ask the senators to support the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is such a question here, and it also appeared in the speeches of the Prime Minister and Minister Emilewicz, whether we have done everything and whether we are doing everything. Of course, Minister Emilewicz is such an experienced high-ranking state official and politician that he will never say that we did everything, so at first she said that of course we didn't do everything. But then she said that it was actually impossible to do any more, so we did everything. Exactly the same conclusion can be drawn from the statements of fellow Senators of the PiS, i.e. There's nothing left to do, just like the government brought, that's good and there's nothing to talk about. So, ladies and gentlemen, first we're going to talk about how much money is spent and whether it's a lot or not, whether we can afford it or not. As far as the state budget is concerned, it is from this law, or actually from the calculations that were given at the end, that when it comes to the state budget itself, it will be an expense of PLN 30.40 billion this year, and the next money will be later. Of course, there are still different types of funds, and they will increase this amount, but compared to the financial effort of 2009, 2010, 2011 this would have been pale. Mr Pęk is not here, I don't see him, and here he talked a lot about how the previous coalition was misruled. I wasn't in this coalition, and I don't have any personal reason to defend it, but when it comes to economics, I do know a little bit about it and I know something about it. Let me remind you that, as a result of that crisis, there has been a very high deficit in public finances and in the budget deficit itself. The budget deficit alone peaked at 5% GDP at that time. If we were to try on the 5% today, to the current GDP, we would get approx. PLN 115 billion. And there's no mention of that kind of money here, maybe 1/2 of this. And I remember Prime Minister Morawiecki talking many times proudly about the fact that we have just led to a balanced budget, that we have even reduced the deficit of public finances, etc., etc., and, after all, for the previous team, it was up to 7%. GDP, and look how bad they've ruled. But it was thanks to such a policy, which took place at the time, that the increase in unemployment in Poland was relatively small, that it was the smallest in European countries. This is the slogan of the green island, of course, it was ironically treated, but it is the fact that we have maintained the greatest GDP growth from all European countries and the least increase in unemployment, thanks to the fact that the deficit was not strangled, that it was not tried to cut expenditure, that it was agreed that this deficit must temporarily be high. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this is not the case now. Let's forget about the 212 billion zlotys, this is completely different money, including loans, including tax shifts in time, etc., etc. Let us talk about what is specifically delivered to citizens and businesses, which should keep these companies alive and sustain demand in the future and not let them fall now. That's why I'm saying it's not like I've heard. from Senator Bogucki that there's nothing left to do, that each of the amendments is good, but together it can't be done. We can do that, ladies and gentlemen. I'll tell you more who's giving, twice give, because of course you can save, but if the company goes down, it won't get up. This is the first case. Second thing: the health care situation. It is known that the coronavirus has attacked, that no health care in the world will survive in such, I would say, good condition, there will be trouble everywhere. It's just that there's a lot of trouble here. After all, we see the situation. The coronavirus fights bravely, but health care is no longer working. See if you can find a dentist, see if you can find a doctor who can do a procedure for you somewhere, etc., etc. It's understandable, they just can't anymore. Why can't they? Because the government doesn't do its own bill. Let me remind you that after the strike of the residents, the agreement was signed. This agreement concluded that public health expenditure would amount to a certain percentage of GDP. It was little that it was accepted in the agreement, it was written in the bill, a special bill was made and it was written in this law. I'll tell you what the situation is. It seems that for 2020 this indicator should be 5.03% GDP, that's how it's written down in the bill. And how much is planned? It's planned to be 4.5%. The same thing happened last year, and there was no plan for this indicator either. So you're breaking the bill. I very much respect Professor Szumowski for his attitude, peace and so on, but unfortunately, as Minister of Health, he did not ask for this. For two years, having a bill in his hand, he didn't hit the table with his fist and said, "Mr. Prime Minister, it can't be that way, we're breaking the law. So let's not be surprised that today's health care situation is what it is. Probably wouldn't be great, wouldn't be great, but I'm sure it would be better. As regards the various internal solutions in this law, a number of examples have already been provided here. Again, I must address Senator Pak, but also Senator Bogucki. Guys, really, we know each other, maybe not quite private, but a little private, we know each other, sometimes we talk to each other. You represent a certain intellectual potential. And on your part, there is no amendment to this law, and this law is broken in every way. The government has brought the amendments here, and there are more. I'll remind you that in the Seym he brought an auto-correction that had 19 pages. Now he's bringing in more improvements. And you who know many things do not bring anything. It is a manifestation of some kind of passiveness, such flow with the current and merely praising the government for everything it does. It's a recipe for failure. And when it comes to concrete solutions, a little bit of this was mentioned here, let's say, companies employing up to 9 people are exempted from ZUS contributions for 3 years... For three months. For three months, I'm sorry. Maybe I'd like to... For three months. Very good. But a company that has 10 employees, not anymore. And now we have a situation that is that there is a company that has 8 employees and works, contributions will not pay it, I do not regret it, please do so, it will certainly help her! and the situation that there is a restaurant that is closed, she simply does not work, and has 10 employees. And he won't. And he won't. So these are the methods... But it would have to be shared. It's some kind of scalpel, not, I'd say, an ax. Or, for example, exemption from the Social Security Office, provided that no three-fold remuneration is achieved. But what does that involve? Coming. I've talked about this many times before. Ladies and gentlemen, will you ever understand trade? I don't know, it's where 1 million people work or more. In trade, turnover is not an income, profit is a margin. This 15 thousand PLN is the shopkeeper has in a few days, and within a month it has much more, but the margin is much less. Unfortunately, he won't go for it. And, of course, the powerful bureaucracy that results from this text. When you read it, at some point something is given and then there is a whole description of how to fight about it, what to fill in, etc. I wouldn't want to be in the skin of anyone who's gonna run for it. Now, about the amendments... Because Senator Bogucki called for the amendments to be withdrawn. Well, I understand it's so idealistic... I don't know if the government's gonna withdraw theirs or not? Mr. Senator, we'll make it. This bill goes to the Sejm, the Sejm will consider it tomorrow, no problem. But it is about the amendments and whether or not to withdraw them that I have a question for Minister Emilewicz. There's art. 15zzr. What's he saying? He says that during the duration of the epidemic threat, the time limits provided for in the provisions of administrative law do not start, it is suspended. Yes? Good. And what rules of administrative law are mentioned there? First, those on which legal protection is subject, etc. And what do we have in item 2? "Seatings, limitation and other time limits'. This is civil law, not administrative law. So I would like to ask if the Minister would like us to make such an amendment. 'Cause we're still gonna make it. Or is it not? Because Senator Bogucki called him to do nothing. If you want, I'll write it right away. Finally, last but not least, the key issue here has been mentioned a little bit. In a situation of this kind of danger, a situation that does not have political colors, it is known that we need to work together. In many Western countries this kind of interaction is obvious, known, visible, etc. In the United States, democrats with Republicans can always communicate at times like this. They've gotten along too. The same is true in Germany. What's going on with us? With us Prime Minister Morawiecki said not so long ago that there is no right, left, here we are all united and we should be united together to fight this threat. He was right to say so. And then a bill comes to us... I mean, I'm not talking about our Senate Act, which was ignored at all. But there's a bill coming to us, and that bill last night was the stuff that we were talking about here. Of course, these uploads are specially made for this... Mr. Senator, we'll be there in 14 minutes. Yes, sir. ...to make it harder to reject them. Right? Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki, this is no way to build an agreement. This epidemic will continue a little longer, unfortunately, and we will still have to cooperate. And I call for us to give up such tricks, tricks, to start considering these issues seriously and in the interests of all Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u37	Thank you very much, senator. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Staroń... I see the Minister, but I would like to say this: The Senate's Rules of Procedure are very clear that you can speak exactly when you make such a wish. Nevertheless, from the point of view of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, I would like to point out that Mr Borowski's question can only be considered as a rhetorical question, because we asked questions to the members of the Council of Ministers at a different point... But at the end of the discussion... But in the end... No, no... But I said it. Gentlemen, I'm sorry. If you want to interrupt me, please refer to what I said. I said at the very beginning that the Minister could speak at any time at which he would express such a desire. Even now. That's exactly what I said. But I added after a while that Senator Borowski's question was rhetorical, it was not a question asked in the form of asking the senators' questions to the minister. And I don't feel like there's any point in prolonging this debate. Please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron... Nevertheless, I ask the Minister. If the Minister wishes to speak at this moment, then of course you have the right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u38	That's as far as your marshal's concerned. In fact, in the context of ad vocem, I would like to refer only to the article. 15zzr and Mr. Marshal's attention. After removing the provisions concerning not only administrative but also civil law in the Sejm, these 2 points were not defectively deleted. But today, amendments have already been tabled on this issue. Administrative law becomes applicable, civil law elements will be removed from the law. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Lydia Staron is the last person to speak in the debate. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u40	Thank you very much. Last one, but I'll try to speak very briefly. First of all, I would like to thank everyone. We know what time it is, so I want to thank the health workers. Doctors, nurses, paramedics... Every day they help, they really help. But we also have to thank all people, because actually every day and they help, actually in their hands is our future. This law is very much needed, but also very much needed amendments that will increase support for entrepreneurs, for workers, but also for health care. I would like to add one more amendment. I'll be honest, it's a big bill, so I read... I tried to read everything... But that's what it's been about, and you've all said it, and you don't have to talk about it again. But there's another article like that, art. 8c... I'm sorry, Art. 8d, and I'm... I mean, it's for me... I'm surprised. And that's what I'm even saying here. We don't know what's gonna happen after the outbreak. We don't know what the world's gonna be like. We do not know how people will function, whether they will have a job, whether they will not have a job, what their financial situation will be, what the financial situation will be at all. I've been here for the last two years. - More, actually. I fought to make sure there was no usury in Poland. We've talked about this a lot. We were talking about the need to change the civil code, the need to change other laws, also the criminal code, because today it is so that apart from the fact that there are interest, there are also extra-interest costs. But now I've read this bill, and I see an art here. 8d. I think that's what weed is! It can't be that there's interest first. And that's the point. Civil Code But there are extra-interest costs, yes, extra-interest costs, for which there is 45% ! Well, we don't know what's gonna happen. People will be looking for money. If there is no work, if there are any tragedies, dramas, then it cannot be that the bill states that the extra-interest costs are 45%. , i.e. 45% the total amount of credit, in addition to interest. That's why I think they should be much, much smaller, and I'm hoping there'll be support. If they're not what I think they're gonna be... But at least 20%. I hope there will be support for such an amendment. That's why I've prepared such an amendment and I'm going to make it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any other senators who would like to speak in the debate? Thank you very much. There are no calls. I would therefore like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the senators It's going to be a little longer, because there's a lot of these amendments. Michał Kamiński, Bogdan Klich, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Zdrojewski, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Beata Małecka-Libera, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Jerzy Wcisła, Jacek Bury, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Ryszard Bober, Marek Pęk, Marek Martynowski, Kazimierz Kleina, Jan Filip Libicki and Lidia Staroń. I also inform you that Senator Alexander Szwed, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Joanna Sekuła and Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka have submitted their speeches to the minutes of the discussion. The discussion is closed. In the debate, senators... I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Sejm meeting. The Senate, the Senate. Excuse me, at the end of the Senate meeting. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. Like I said, voting in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions. The text of the Act is contained in print No 95 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 95 A and 95 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Very briefly. Since this law had virtually no controversy at the committee meeting, it was adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u43	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our committee's report is in print 95 B. I ask the High House to adopt this law together with 2 amendments. The Polish Development Fund SA, in accordance with the Law on State Property Management, is a company implementing a public mission. The novel adopted by the committee extends the spectrum of tasks which can be co-financed by the Polish Development Fund, to support measures to combat the crisis related to the spread of COVID-19 infection. The tasks of the Polish Development Fund will be to take measures to prevent or mitigate the effects of crisis situations, including the effects of the spread of the infectious disease caused by COVID-19 by providing financial support to entrepreneurs and other affected entities. The funding provided by the Polish Development Fund will mainly be paid to the affected micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. Between 2020 and 2029 the maximum expenditure limit of the state budget resulting from the Law will amount to PLN 11 billion 700 million. The Commission has adopted a law with 2 legislative and legal amendments. The first amendment corrects erroneous references and the second removes unnecessary repetition from the provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u45	I thank the rapporteur very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I state, by requesting silence in the courtroom, that the senators may now report from a place of no more than a minute's notice to the senators of the rapporteurs. There are no calls. There are no calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u46	Very briefly. This is one of the laws that gives tooling to complete the entire shield. This is the investment component, the recapitalisation of the Polish Development Fund in order to create a fund for simple investments in entities which under the rules of banking law today could not obtain such aid. We are talking about investments, support for entrepreneurs, we are talking about loans, also for small and medium-sized companies, for which today the Polish Development Fund has virtually no offer. We are talking about buying shares, shares, bonds, receivables, joining partnerships, granting loans, guarantees, guarantees. The second important component is related to the leasing instrument created by the Industrial Development Agency of PLN 1 billion 700 million. This is an instrument... He mentioned earlier in his speech Senator Borowski that we are particularly concerned about several industries. The transport industry is one of them, it is the largest industry in Europe. Most of the cars owned by companies, including small and medium-sized ones, are leased cars. This instrument will facilitate the payment of lease payments to these entities. The total value of new funds is PLN 11 billion 700 million. The fund will present its investment plan, but it's already ready... After the adoption of this law, the instruments will be ready to support the market from the second week of April. Therefore, this time I kindly ask the High House to accept our submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that there is a possibility of asking questions to a representative of the government. Senators can ask these questions from the place, questions can't last more than a minute. I'm asking you to... I don't see any senators willing to ask questions. I'm opening a discussion. I state that no Senator signed up for the discussion, and the minutes included a speech from Senator Swede. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees put forward different positions. I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Direction... I'm driving... Referral to the committee... I just read it. I'm declaring a recess... Message... Excuse me, I'm declaring a recess... The message's still on. Yeah, the messages are still there. I ask Senator Secretary to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on the system of development institutions and to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws will take place 2 hours after the announcement of the break in room 118.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u49	Thank you very much, Senator Secretary. Dismissed until 11:00 p.m. That's when the vote will take place? Time-out until 11:00 p.m. when the vote takes place. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 01 to 2 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we will return to the second agenda, but first I would like to thank you for the hard work we have all done. I would like to thank the legislators and employees of the Senate Chancellery because, in view of the urgency of the moment and urgency of the laws for which society is waiting, the Senate has done a great deal of work. I would like to thank everyone individually and together and to express my highest appreciation for all those who have participated in this process. We are returning to the second point: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, was published in print No 96 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I would like to inform you that we have examined all the amendments that have been the subject of our analysis. We recommend to the High Senate the conclusions contained in the bill II. Please accept the amendments: 1.3, 5.7, 9.12, 16 and 18, 20 and 24, 26 and 46, 48 and 53, 55 and 60, 62 and 90. At the same time, I inform you that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has changed the content of its proposal, i.e. point 48 in the table of applications. Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz have withdrawn their applications in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Those are the conclusions... This was also done by a minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Amendments 4 and 19 were withdrawn by Senator Frankiewicz. A minority of the economic committee withdrew amendments 13 and 25, and Kazimierz Kleina, No 54.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u52	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? No. In the course of the discussion, the conclusions were made by Pleno Titulo Senators: Borowski, Zdrojewski, Bober, Frankiewicz, Małecka-Libera, Staroń, Kwiatkowski, Bury, Libicki, Morawska-Stanecka, Klich, Kamiński, Kleina, Martynowski, Pęk, Wcisła. In addition, the rapporteur was Senator Marek Pęk from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Senator Adam Szejnfeld was rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I would remind you that their conclusions were withdrawn: Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, as was mentioned; minority of the national economy commission No. 13 and 25 in print No. 96 Z; Senator Kazimierz Kleina No. 54 in print No. 96 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? This is the first vote in three rooms. Let's give it a try. I see he's doing very well. Please state the results of the vote. It went the right way, which means the system worked properly. 76 senators voted, 10 for, 66 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. If we reject the proposal for a law without amendments, we will vote on it. I've agreed with the club leaders that you'll have print number 96 with ahead of you. For saving time, because the committee in the Sejm is waiting until 8.30 a.m. to consider our amendments, if you will allow me, I will only read the number of the amendment and who is the author of it. The content of each amendment is in print No 96 Z. If I do not hear the votes against, I will apply this procedure. I don't see any calls. Amendment 1, senators Marek Borowski and Bogdan Zdrojewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 46 votes against, 29 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment 2 is the amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted, 72 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 3 is Senator Richard Bober's amendment. Please hold the vote. The apparatus doesn't work in one... It's a technical break, because we have a signal that... it's not working in the whole room, or just... One position. One position. Good. If there's anything else, there's a place with the right distance. Call me and tell me if it doesn't work, we can override the person in your line... The secretary's asking for a rehearsal vote because something in this position was buzzing and it's already stopped buzzing. Uh-huh. So how was it buzzing, then... This is a trial vote, ladies and gentlemen. You can press... Anything. ...any button, any button. This is a rehearsal vote. Please press any button. It's not working. But this is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, now. Now you can push it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] How's it going? Are they signaling that it was buzzing or not buzzing? It should be okay. We need to check the score. Please state the results of the trial vote. 75 senators voted... [[Voting No 4]] And before that, it was 76... Well, maybe somebody didn't vote. And now it's working. They say it works. Senator Łuczak... Yes? They say it works. Good. The malfunction's been removed. We proceed with a real vote. We got a signal that the first vote didn't work the apparatus. Can we repeat the vote for this reason? On the first one? Well, it wasn't until the second one that we were told, but the first one wasn't picked up. The vote is over and... Mr. Marshal, because of this trial vote, the system needs to be reversed. We need a three-minute break. Something needs to be set up there. It takes a second computer scientist to get the system... All right. But doesn't any position work? During the first vote, 1 position did not work. It's already fixed, but right now the system needs to be undone. There were these rehearsal votes, and now a colleague, a second IT guy, came... So you're suggesting that we repeat for technical reasons the vote no. 1, 2... No, no. It's about Amendment 1. In the case of Amendment 1, there must be reconsumption. For technical reasons? Because one senator didn't have the opportunity to vote. Senator Luczak? Yes. Okay, three minutes to reset this system. I'm just asking one of the IT guys to be in this room if something's crashing. I don't know if this is a human error or... It's working here, Tom. Okay. But I ask for a signal when it is possible to proceed with the repetition of the vote on Amendment 1. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll start over. Can we start voting? I'm asking for a clear signal that we can start voting. Good. So for technical reasons, I ask you to vote again on Amendment 1. This is an amendment by Senators Marek Borowski and Bogdan Zdrojewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46... Same thing... No, it's not the same thing. It was 29. There were 46 senators against 30, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Everything's working. Amendment 2 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 74 for, 2 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 3 is Senator Richard Bober's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Chróścikowski? Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 votes, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Attention, Amendment 4 has been withdrawn. Amendment 5 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 6 is an amendment by Senators Marek Borowski and Beata Małecka-Libera. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 7 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 72 for, 4 against. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 8 is an amendment by Senator Lydia Staron and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 41 for, 34 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 9 is an amendment by Senator Beata Małecka-Libera and Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 10 is Senator Jack Bury's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 11 is the amendment of Senator John Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 14]] Note that the possible adoption of Amendment 12 excludes voting on Amendments 13, 14 and 15. This is an amendment by the senator, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 13, 14, 15 were excluded. Amendment 16 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 17 is an amendment by Marshal Michael Kaminski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 18 is an amendment by Senators Marek Borowski and Bogdan Zdrojewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 44 votes against, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Attention, Amendment 19 has been withdrawn. Amendment 20 is Senator Kazimierz Kleina's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 21 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 44 votes against, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 22 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 23 is the amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 25... No 24. Amendment 24, sorry, this is also an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 25 has been withdrawn. So now Amendment 26, amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 27 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal Karczewski is still... Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 28 is also an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 29 is Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 30 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Borowski... Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 31 is also an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 48 for, 28 against. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 32 is also an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 33 is the amendment by Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 34 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 74 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 35, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 36, Senator Richard Bober. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 37, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 38, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 39, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 40, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 41, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 42, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 43, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Marek Pęk. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 44, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Borowski... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 45, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted against, 45 against, 30 against. [[Voting No 43]] Attention, Amendment 46 will exclude the vote on Amendment 47. Amendment 46 is an amendment of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 44]] So we move on to Amendment 48, amendments to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 49 is Senator Marek Borowski's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 50 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 51 is Senator Richard Bober's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 52 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 53 is an amendment of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and of Senator Marek Borowski. Attention, the adoption of this amendment will exclude the vote on Amendment 54. Withdrawn... Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 54 has been withdrawn. Amendment 55 is an amendment of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Kopiczko? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 56 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 57 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 58 is Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 59 is also the amendment of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted against, 45 against, 30 against. [[Voting No 55]] Attention, Amendment 60 will exclude the vote on Amendment 61. Amendment 60 is Senator Marek Borowski's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Amendments 62 and 84, amendments by Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 47 votes against, 5 against, 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 63 is Senator Richard Bober's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 64 is Senator Marek Borowski's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 Senators voted, 45 in favour No one abstained from voting. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 65 is the amendment of Senator John Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 66 is also an amendment by Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 67 is Senator Bogdan Klich's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 44 for, 31 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 68 is Senator Richard Bober's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 69 is also the amendment of Senator Richard Bober. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 70 is an amendment of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and of Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 71 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 74 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 72, minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 73, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 74, Senator Richard Bober. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 75, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 76, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 77 Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 78, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 79, minorities of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 47 for, 29 against. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 80, minorities of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 46 votes 29 against. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 80, minority of the National Economy Committee... 81. ...81, excuse me, Senator Jerzy Wcisla's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 82, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 83 Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 44 votes against, 31 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 78]] I would like to remind you that Amendment 84 has already been voted on, including Amendment 62. Amendment 85, minorities of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 44 for, 30 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 86, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 87, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 88, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 82]] Amendment 89, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 83]] Amendment 90, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 73 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 84]] No more amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 85]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on the health system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate print No 94 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 removes doubts about the possibility of telemedicine medical dismissals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 2 causes, among others: in the event of an epidemic emergency, pharmaceutical wholesalers will also be obliged to dispose of medical devices to healthcare professionals in their professional practice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 3 refers to the relevant provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 4 is also intended to refer to the relevant provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 89]] Amendment 5 exempts the doctor from the obligation to provide data on the results of the treatment. This obligation will be fulfilled by the medicinal product in which the physician takes care of the infected person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 90]] Amendment 6 makes the Material Reserve Agency available the necessary assortment of strategic reserves also to protect health and life, among others. the staff of the therapeutic entities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 91]] Attention, amendments 7 and 12 should be voted on together. Amendment 7 deletes the provision which extended the deadline for issuing a regulation, ordering or adopting a resolution on changing the organisational form or winding up an independent public health establishment. Amendment 12 is a consequence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 9 for, 67 against. [[Voting No 92]] Amendment 8 is intended to refer to the relevant provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 9 makes it possible for the President of the National Health Fund to amend the financial plan of this fund for 2020 in order to take account of the increased amount of the billing point in the roar of the basic system of hospital care provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 10 is intended to grant a special allowance to staff of medicinal products for overtime. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 46 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 11 causes, among other things, the staff of medicinal products and the staff of commercial establishments to be tested once a week for the presence of COVID-19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 45 for, 30 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 12 has already been voted on, including Amendment 7. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 73 votes against, no one opposed, three abstentions. [[Voting No 97]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws on the health protection system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 95 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that Amendment No 1 be adopted in the table of amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u54	Thank you very much. Do the other Senators still want to speak? I would like to inform you that Senator Marek Pęk was the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted against, 19 votes against, 56 votes against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 98]] We therefore proceed to vote on the amendments tabled in relation to the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendment. Amendment 1 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 2 removes unnecessary repetition from the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 3 for, 71 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 100]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 101]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the eighth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Our daily life has stopped, our ordinary world has been as if it weren't ours for a few weeks. We observe what is happening around us, what is happening to us, our habits and daily rituals. It turns out that we lack simple things, that there are things we can't do right now. It's empty around us, we're without close friends, neighbors and friends. We feel a lack of closeness, a mere handshake. Even our eyesight, usually cordial, became extremely cautious and suspicious. The hardest part is knowing that, unfortunately, so little depends on us, that someone, and in this case something, decides for us. It decides about our lives, our everyday lives, our shared joys, our being together, our work and our responsibilities. For the first time in our lives, we don't really have an influence on them. Senator, I'm very sorry to interrupt, but the subject of the statement cannot be a matter of... Order. The statements may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting, and at all times... Mr. Marshal, there will be words of thanks in a moment, and that's why I wanted to make this statement. Well, by way of exception, I allow that possibility. Thank you very much. Every day, we are anxiously following further reports of infected persons and those in quarantine. Sadness brings information about those who have lost their fight for life against this cruel adversary. Our world today is us and our loved ones, trembling for their safety and peace. Those who unfortunately think of themselves, of their comfort and peace have no time We assume that now they may not even have the strength to do so. There are doctors and nurses, paramedics, salons, lab workers, technicians. It is to them and to all medical staff and to all those who continue on the front line and with incredible effort save our health and life, from this place, from the Senate of the Republic of Poland today we say: thank you. This is the simplest word, but when hundreds, thousands, millions of Poles say it, we believe that it sounds strong enough for all of you to hear it. Let our applause applauded by the windows and balconies be a signal to you these days that we are with you, that we think of you and support you all as we can. We believe there will come a moment after this terrible time when we can thank you a hundred times for all this. You are to us the heroes of our daily life, those who bring hope and peace. We know that every day you face the simplest problems, the lack of basic security measures to protect you enough. We know you're struggling with cruel fatigue after hours of duty. We also know that sometimes our lack of responsibility and fear of telling the truth put your health and life at risk. Please hold on, build up your strength to bear the burden of responsibility for all of us in this most difficult time for us and for the world. Once again, we thank you with all our heart. We also thank all of you who, every day, risking your health, work so that we can maintain at this abnormal time the appearance of normality. I can't thank everyone for that, but I'll try some of you. I thank volunteers who support the elderly, the lonely and the needy, the volunteers who sew masks and print cavities on 3D printers every day. We thank teachers, pharmacists, salesmen, drivers, police officers, firefighters, soldiers, cashiers, mailmen, couriers, local government officials who bear our common daily lives, and anyone who with a good word, kindness, perhaps with one smile more than usual, can support us through which this time is at least moments to bear. I particularly thank Mrs. Janina, 96-year-old resident of Świdnica, who joined the relief action and necks the mask. Mrs. Janina, I'd like to express my deepest gratitude. Thank you personally to the Boy Scouts of Wałbrzych and Świdnica, as well as the workers of the Wałbrzych ILOS, with whom we help the elderly every day. Thank you, Councillor of the City Council of Wałbrzych and Świdnica. Hang on! I'll be right back. We will continue to work and support all those who need help. We all firmly believe that in time we will be able to return to normal, that we will dare to live again. Will we stop being afraid? Will we rid ourselves of fear and all fear? We don't know that. We really want that to happen. We firmly believe that this state will pass soon, and we will be able to erase it quickly. Thanking everyone who's with us every day, let's do everything we can to get out of this nightmare stronger, smarter and more predictable. The others might come out better. Today we can promise to all our heroes of everyday life. May this be an expression of our gratitude today. Senator, it's been five minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-30-senat-08-1.u56	Thank you very much for this touching statement. I accept them as a thank you, but please bear in mind that the statements must not concern matters on the agenda of this sitting. Thank you. Sometimes it is worth considering whether or not to prepare a special resolution. Today, due to a special situation, I agreed to this statement. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Thank you very much to my colleagues, Senator Swede, Senator Wtisle and Senator Świlski, who supported us in this unusual meeting, in these unusual deliberations. I have a vague impression that we managed a little bit faster than the Seym, which I'm proud of. Once again, I thank all those who have contributed to this, from administrative staff to senators, vice-marshals and everyone else. The eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 3 minutes 28]]
