ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u1	I open the fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Viktor Durlak to be the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Senators, please take your seats. Yeah, it came true in 50%. I hope it completes. We're giving you one more chance. To proceed to the sitting, I inform you that the Sejm at its fourth meeting on 23 January 2020 rejected the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law on the amendment of the Law on the General Court, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws; rejected all the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals; rejected the only amendment of the Senate tabled to the Act on the establishment of the Polish Science Day; accepted all the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act on the amendment of the Law on Waste and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities. And so much for the seismic work. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the second Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senate. If none of your senators submit a statement of objections, it will be adopted at the next meeting. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 11 December 2019 the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate a document on the situation of older people in Poland for the year 2018. This document is contained in print No 24. On 22 December 2019 I sent information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission took note of the document and informed me of it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to keep your conversations quiet and focus on your deliberations... Shh. ... ...because we want to avoid ambarassing situations, like: repeating votes. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 1 and 20 of the draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the following points: the fifth, concerning the Act on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and consider it as a third point; the sixth, concerning the Law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act and certain other laws and consider it as point four; seventh, concerning the Law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws and consider it as point five. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the vote... Oh, no, I'm sorry. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Blackbay? I would have reported it, Mr. Marshal... Mr. Chairman... Kaziu, give the right card to the chairman... Excuse me. The other one, not the one. Easy, easy. Microphone on, please. Mr. Senator, please refrain from commenting. Don't lecture me, Senator. I'm not lecturing you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u2	Thanking the senator and the minister for the customs remarks, as always resulting from intelligence and discretion, I would like to make a proposal, Mr Marshal, to consider point sixteen after point seven. Point 16 of the draft agenda is a law amending the law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. So that's point eight? As point eight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u3	After the speeches, I would like to remind you that the proposed changes in the order of consideration are based on requests received from the resorts, from the Minister-President, from Minister Cieszynski and from Minister Swede. Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? No. Therefore, I state that the Senate adopted the agenda of the fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will begin the session at 10.00 a.m. from the examination of the point concerning the second reading of the draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union. After considering this point, we will proceed with the examination of point 16 on geological law, as we have already discussed. In addition, I inform you senators that after the Senate committee has prepared a report for the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Polish Wedding with the Sea on 10 February 1920 in Puck, the agenda may be supplemented by items concerning the second reading of this draft. I would like to inform you that the votes on the points discussed today and tomorrow will be held on Thursday evening. The remaining votes, if not completed on Thursday, will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. The text of the Act is contained in print No 35 and the report of the Commission In print No 35 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A bill I'm honored to have. present to you today, it is already the third interim intervention solution. The first was the compensation of PLN 980 million for the proceeds of subscription fees lost in the years 2010 and 2017 for exemptions from these charges for the execution by public broadcasting units of the public service mission. Then, in 2019, further compensation was granted for licence fees lost in the years 2018 to 2019 in the form of State-owned securities with a nominal value of not more than PLN 1 billion 260 million. So that this is the third tranche of funds for public media, which we are transferring from state resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Act on Subscription Fees aims to provide public broadcasting and television units with compensation for lost in 2018 and 2019, not compensated in 2019, and the loss in 2020 of revenues from subscription fees for subjective exemptions contained in the Act on Subscription Fees for the performance of the public service mission referred to in the Act on Radio and Television. Consequently, the Act provides that in 2020 the Minister responsible for Budget Affairs shall transfer to public broadcasting bodies treasury securities as compensation for the above-mentioned title. The total nominal value of the treasury securities to be compensated shall be This is a record amount of PLN 1 billion 950 million. Notwithstanding the fact that the Act sets out the rules for the issuance and disposal of treasury securities, it also amends the Act on Radio and Television, which consists in repealing the provision limiting the number of members of the company's board of directors to 3 persons. I would very much like to draw attention to this. It also contains a regulation which makes public broadcasting units in the draft duty cards prescribed by the Act In each year covered by this Charter, the amount of public revenue shall be taken into account at the level of not less than the sum of the projected revenues from subscription fees for 2020 and the compensation provided for in the Act. At the same time, I would also like to draw this attention to the extension of the deadline until 15 May 2020 for the conclusion of the agreements on the establishment of the Charter of Obligations for the years 2020 to 2024. An appropriate law implementing EU directives was adopted not so long ago. The second point I would like to draw your attention to, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is once again a parliamentary project, i.e. having all the disadvantages of such a project. Apart from one advantage, the fact that the bill can be passed at a rapid pace, the parliamentary project has been known to all of you for its shortcomings. Compared to the submission of the parliamentary bill, the bill was extended to amend the Act on Radiophony and Television by repealing the provision specifying the number of members of the company's board of directors. As a result, the title of the Act has also changed. In addition, changes have been made to shorten the procedure for the granting of securities to public service broadcasting units. E.g. The road's been cut short... The proposal to the Minister responsible for Budget Affairs will be forwarded directly by the National Council of Radiophony and Television, excluding the Minister responsible, in this case the Minister of Culture and the Protection of National Heritage. It was extended, too. By 15 May 2020, the deadline for concluding an agreement on the establishment of a Charter of Obligations for the years 2020 to 2024. In addition, a provision has been introduced which makes it impossible to amend the programming and financial plans for 2020, taking into account the nominal value of the treasury securities fixed for individual public units of radio and television, to apply the provision concerning the limit on revenues from subscription fees and penalties for the use of unregistered receivers as well as subsidies from the State budget. Regardless of the above, legislative changes have been introduced, clarifying and editorial. At the second reading, a proposal was made to reject the project in its entirety at the Sejm meeting. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without re-directing the project to committee. Apart from the fact that the project was extremely urgent as a parliamentary In addition, the relevant procedures have been shortened. The motion to reject the bill was not supported. 228 Members voted in favour of the bill and the bill passed. The amendment of the Act on subscription fees provides for the granting of public aid to individual public broadcasting units in 2020 in the form of fiscal securities. The implementation of the regulation provided for in the Treaty under Polish law is carried out by the Law on the proceedings in matters relating to public aid. According to art. 12 draft aid schemes referred to in the Act require the opinion of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which in particular contains a position on the obligation to notify the project. With regard to the aid provided for in the draft law on subscription fees, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection on 19 December 2019 issued an opinion in which he stated: The proposed amendments should not affect the assessment of the compatibility of the existing financing scheme for public broadcasters in Poland and should therefore not be subject to notification to the European Commission. However, from a formal point of view of doubt as to the change of existing aid, a planned form of aid, which is not explicitly indicated in the Radio and Television Act notified to the European Commission, may arise. So that the opinion of the UOKiK contains not only a certain doubt, but also a reservation. At the same time, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection informed that it was possible to consult the representatives of the European Commission at the working level whether the draft law should be formally notified due to the new source of influence of public broadcasters. The conclusion of the opinion of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection does not clearly give rise to doubts as to the obligation to notify this aid to the European Commission. In addition, the lack of information on the consultations carried out to the extent mentioned above gives rise to legal certainty as to whether or not the aid provided for in this Law should be notified. Therefore, it cannot be excluded that the law is flawed by the failure to notify the European Commission. Thus, the aid granted under this law may result in certain consequences resulting from failure to comply in due time with the procedures relating to the need to notify the proposal to the European Commission. This subject of authorised public aid has repeatedly been brought back in discussions on the Radio and Television Act and other laws that regulated the flow of funds. I draw your attention to the fact that so far, despite the fact that four years... We already have a second term of office of the current coalition, and so far we have not seen legal regulations that would make sure that if someone challenged the European Union this way of proceding... We don't know if we're going to face a situation of financial penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was extended to amend the Radio and Television Act by repealing the provision specifying the number of members of the company's management board. The extension of the scope of the amendments to the Act amending the Act on Subscription Fees to amend the Act on Radiophony and Television to a extent which is not thematically related, i.e. amending the rules of appointment of the Board, is incompatible with the rules of legislative technique. That's what we read in the opinion of our legislators. Moreover, there is no justification for such amendments to the Act on Radio and Television as if in the context of the work on amending the Act on subscription fees. It aroused interest, we asked about it, but we did not get any reasonable answers to the question of why such changes are proposed as regards the rules determining the number of members of the Management Board of TVP SA. The regulation adopted with regard to the extension of the scope of the amendments to the Radio and Television Act is a normative novelty and, as such, may face charges of misconduct outside the statutory matter and omission of stage 3 readings during legislative work in the Sejm. It should also be stressed that the regulation adopted in this Act concerns the granting of compensation to public broadcasting units only in 2020. There are no provisions which would provide for compensation for these entities for the following years. The existing legislation does not provide for a system-based solution providing for regular compensation or other permanent forms of public media funding at a certain financial level which would provide a realistic basis for the preparation of draft charters with regard to the identification of the financing of public service obligations to be carried out in 2021/2024. This solution, according to our Legislative Office, should be considered incorrect in view of the fact that it requires the inclusion in the agreement on the establishment of the charters of obligations in the form of a legal status which does not exist with regard to the sources of financing of public service tasks. Therefore, the question of the sources and financing of the public service mission carried out on the basis of a charter of obligations covering the years 2021 to 2024 remains open. We're dealing with some kind of commissionorium, because there are still no credit cards. Television has submitted them, but the National Council did not adopt, at the end of last year, draft duty cards, accompanied by rules on the financing of missions in public media. Even though we voted in the Senate The Sejm, of course, did it too. The law, which was to regulate it in accordance with EU law, is still a temporary act. I mean, from what I've been told... That's the slightest point. As usual, the law is to enter into force on the day following the date of the announcement, which means that there are 14 days for this normative act to enter into force. It's obviously not... The rules are constantly being broken here by the current coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, two meetings of the cultural committee took place yesterday. One was devoted to the discussion about public television, the right to reliable information. Right to reliable information and public media A few hours of discussion took place at the committee meeting on this subject. The second meeting has already been specifically devoted to the law and the result of this second meeting is a motion to reject the law in its entirety and such a proposal has been adopted by a majority. I'm here to deliver a report to the Committee on Culture to the Marshal. I think that today we will be talking a lot about the proposal from the discussions of both committee meetings, but I would also like to give you the official document that was voted out at the second meeting. This is the position of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the right to reliable information and public media. Let me read this document, he's already suspended on the Senate pages, on the pages of the cultural committee. After hearing the reports and the public opinions of non-governmental organisations, experts and ombudsman and after discussion, the committee considers it unacceptable to use the following practices in public media financed by public funds and directly from the state budget: replacing objective and diverse information with messages that value and favour exclusively the interests of the governing party; accepting and building messages dividing Poles and introducing elements of hatred towards specific social groups and individuals; gross lack of impartiality and objectivity, especially during and during the electoral campaigns preceding them; lack of responsibility for the importance and importance of words driving hatred in social media and in public space; disregarding generally accepted social standards and principles of responsible journalism. The Commission has asked the public media authorities and employees to restore integrity in information programmes, the National Radio and Television Council to introduce proper supervision and response to the above practices, to the National Media Council to assess the work of public media authorities and to change the authorities of TVP and Polish Radio responsible for bad practices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator, for the report. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Senator! The provisions of this draft law repeal the limitation of the number of members of the company's board of directors to 3. Please justify the proposed amendment. Second question. The opinion on the Law on the Compliance with European Union Law and the letter from the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection states that the draft law can be considered as a public aid plan to be notified to the European Commission under Article. 108. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Has this matter been resolved or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u7	Thank you very much. As far as the first question is concerned, Senator, this matter was raised at the committee meeting, and we have asked about these solutions. Unfortunately, we've received information... It will be possible to ask the Minister, who will probably speak. We have been informed that this is just an additional solution, optional, that it doesn't have to be applied, that it doesn't change much and that this is as an option introduced. In fact, we did not get a de facto answer to the question of the actual reasons for this. As for the answer to your second question, I said in my statement that this is a problem that keeps coming back. We have the opinion of the president of the UOKiK, which is, I would call it, a soft opinion, i.e. She doesn't speak categorically that everything is okay, she just draws attention to certain things. That's what I was quoting. This opinion is written in such a way that there are certain gates. You could say that she is, yes, positive, but not quite. That's what I'd say. We're still dealing with this situation because we already know... At the committee meeting, we heard that there are environments that they're planning to... maybe plan to sue it as admissible public aid. The Union procedure will then be initiated and high penalties may be imposed. I hope that later the Minister will want to explain all of this in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u8	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? If there isn't, thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. Please, Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the project has been submitted and created by Members. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage did not cooperate in the design of this project, but it was modelled on a project that Parliament had previously presented, and then the government's position was essentially positive. We agreed that a temporary solution should be created to finance the media until there is a political consensus on how to create a system solution. When such a consensus arises, I understand that such a solution can be put forward. I would just like to address a few points that have been raised by the rapporteur's senator. The first point is the mode, that is, that the parliamentary project has flaws in that it is parliamentary. Well, I remind you that the legislative initiative in Poland has the Sejm, the Senate, the President and the Government. I'm just wondering here if senator projects have the same flaws as parliamentary projects. I'll leave that question to you to say, in the air. I hope everyone will answer that question on their own. Let me remind you that there is also a legislative process that this legislative process in the Seym and the Senate is quite extensive There are discussions, there are committee work, there are amendments tabled. As I understand it, Members have exercised this power and have tabled amendments during their work in committee. This is where the role of Minister of Culture and National Heritage is revealed, because the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in my person supported the work of Members in committee, we have served with our knowledge and expertise, including on the various issues that emerged during the Senator's report. Well, these questions are repeated all the time, they are repeated in Parliamentary committees, in Senate committees, and, as I understand it, they will be asked several times in different forms. Let me comment on whether this is in line with the principles of state aid in the European Union, because this is probably the most pressing problem which I understand is of interest to all senators. In our view, this is not a violation of public aid rules. In general, the procedure to be followed by the European Commission is that the notifying authority notifys it to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and this office may refer it to the European Commission if it considers that there is indeed such a condition for verification by the European Commission. In this case, the UOKiK issued an opinion which, in my opinion, indicates that there is no such need, but, as the senator pointed out, there is a margin left here. I would like to say to those of you who have not worked closely with officials so far, although maybe most of us have cooperated with lawyers, that there is always a margin left by officials and lawyers because they are afraid to take full responsibility. But they don't have to be afraid here. They do not have to be afraid because we have implemented the European Commission's Communication on State aid rules. Thus, there is not even a technical possibility to submit any comments to the Commission at this point in time, because all the comments that could have ever been made to the rules for the distribution of money in the public media public aid programme have already been agreed and implemented within the framework of this communication, including, inter alia, The media duty card, which she also mentioned during the Senator's speech. The general principle is that public aid is such a kind of media aid, i.e. not at all for market operators which do not infringe market rules. Public aid to the media is without prejudice to market rules, because only a public mission is financed through subscription money or money granted through this law, which we process. And a public mission. These are the tasks... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Calm down, please. ...which are not carried out by commercial entities, i.e. TV theaters... Don't you have a sense of shame? ...sports broadcasts. President Kurski, during the previous debate in the committee, has been developing the subject of programme initiatives that he has implemented on television for a long time. Of course, it can be referred to, but I wouldn't want to keep the senators occupied. There's too much time in this place. That's too bad. However, this assistance must not exceed the actual costs of the mission. In our implementation, which is agreed with the European Commission, there is a margin maximum 10% more, i.e. if there is no 10% More than the cost of emissions, we follow the principle of communication. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to the calculations of the National Council of Radiophony and Television and the various other calculations that were conducted, among others. also by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the amount for the implementation of the mission varies between PLN 2.5 billion and PLN 3.2 billion. Together with the planned revenues from the subscription and with the money granted by this law, we will not exceed the amount of PLN 2.5 billion, if I count well, so in no case are we even approaching this maximum threshold, which is set in the Communication on State aid to public media. And here I would like to point out one thing, which is the result of, among other things. from this communication, that the European Commission is not really interested in where this money is from, but how They're being separated. In my view, it would be best, of course, that they are only from a subscription, but at this moment, as I understand it, cannot be done, and the television, radio and local radios must carry out their public mission, because they have such a statutory obligation. Therefore, as this is a public mission, it must be financed for public money. And it is guaranteed constitutionally. This means that we are burdened with government, states, senators, Members, in general, with the obligation to provide funding for all authorities, because each Pole has the right to be able to use a public mission. And now I will briefly address some of the specific issues that have been raised. There was an issue concerning the amendment tabled by Members during the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, amending the Rule. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Radio and TV Act. In the original, this provision limited the number of members of the public media board to a maximum of 3 persons, but the Commercial Companies Code says that there must be a minimum of 1 person. By deleting this provision, direct regulations contained in the Commercial Companies Code are introduced, such as those applied to any other company, whether it be the Treasury or any other company operating on the market. It's not a revolution, because in the next few days... Actually, we've already reported a so-called project in the government. A law that cleans up radio and television, which eliminates unnecessary rules, introduces modern solutions and basically refers mainly to technical issues, and concerns media in general, not only public media. And that's where we offered to change, too, which is why... I don't think it's particularly controversial. I have always been in favour of system laws entering into system issues rather than creating specific solutions for specific objects. So in my opinion, this is a positive change. And yes, I'd still post it in the Cleaning Act. She was also called for in the project, but since the Members had proposed this earlier, I have nothing but a positive response to it. And as for the deadline... The deadline is in principle set at the day following the publication of the law. Then it enters into force, not, as it was accepted, in 14 days. This is a rather crucial change and it is quite an important issue, because the law includes the duties of other bodies which are carried out within a certain period of time. I mean, the National Radio and Television Council must simply adopt a resolution by the end of March in which it will divide the money from the subscription. And since the law that we finance is the public media, the law that is the subject of this meeting... The distribution of the money from this bill is to be exactly the same as those from the subscription, so for reasons, let's call it technical, should come into force approximately when the National Radio and Television Council will be able to adopt a resolution so that it doesn't have to meet again and that it can already take into account these measures when allocating money to public media. Since, of course, we are aware that there is a certain procedure for proceding in the Senate and that the President still has time to sign this bill, we wanted to reduce the risk of such a situation as much as possible, that the National Radio and Television Council would have to adopt a resolution either twice and thus amend the resolution taken just now, or postpone the resolution for a longer period than is specified in the Radio and Television Act. There was also a question about the media card, that the bill states that the media card is for 5 years, and this system guarantees money only for a year. Indeed, only that the media card is quite a new legal instrument in Poland, and it is really an administrative agreement between the National Radio and Television Council and public media. I'll quickly tell you what it looks like to agree on this card. To put it simply: public media present programmes that carry out the mission in their assessment and transmit them to the National Radio and Television Council. The National Council organises a type of public consultation, because any social factor, including a private person, can report Same as in the government legislative procedure Your comments to the media duty card. Subsequently, the National Radio and Television Council takes into account some of the comments, and some of them do not include, present their version and negotiate with the public media the form of the mission, the scope of the mission and its costs. And when a card like this is agreed, it's signed. According to the Act, the signature of the media obligation card may be postponed by one year. But what does that mean? Because this is an ordinary administrative agreement, everyone has the rights and obligations under this agreement. This means that if, in the following years, the National Radio and Television Council does not have the means to ensure the obligations contained in this Charter, i.e. in this agreement, the public media will not be required to implement precisely those elements for which they will not receive funding. Therefore, this is in no way a threat to the media. We will not force the media to spend more money than they actually have; their interests are secured as companies governed by commercial law. Nor will we create any additional special obligation for the National Council of Radiophony and Television, because the National Council has only the money it has at its disposal by virtue of the Act, the Act on Subscription. So I don't see any threats here. And, of course, we are regulating a question which, as it were, is not regulated at this point in time as far as funding is concerned. However, I believe that it will be resolved systematically over the next few years if political consensus is reached on this issue. At the same time, I would like to thank Parliament from this point on for taking this initiative, for taking this issue so quickly and efficiently and for understanding the needs in this area. I would also like to thank the senators for leaning over the bill. If there are any questions, of course I'm ready to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. I see you've signed up for questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Ewa Matecka signed up first.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Is it true that never before in 2017 such a form of supplementing the loss of revenue, i.e. the imbalance of the public media budget, has been applied? And this time, for the third time, compensation of about PLN 2 billion is to be applied, which together with the previous ones already gives the amount of PLN 4 billion. And is it true that by 2017, the public media authorities responsible for the financial economy of public media did not benefit from this form of aid, but from other tools? Couldn't these tools also be used this time? I'm talking about loans and loans. And has it ever been proposed and presented some sort of recovery program for this situation that continues to repeat itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, the issue is quite complex, but I'm going to try to get it straight. As far as compensation is concerned, since the State imposes a duty on any entity... Please note that media companies are ordinary companies governed by commercial law, which are of course subject to special regulations, but they are companies governed by commercial law and therefore have the same obligations as companies governed by commercial law. So since we, as a state, impose any obligations on companies governed by commercial law, we have to pay them for these duties in the world, because they are de facto obligations of the state, because it is written in the Constitution that this country provides citizens with the right to information, etc. Therefore, as it is implemented by the companies, the State must, in accordance with this principle, finance these issues. So far, most of the missions... I mean. not most, only part of the mission was co-financed by the subscription. However, fewer and fewer people paid their subscription on a regular basis. There have also been more and more exemptions from this subscription for various issues, from being a veteran, having some degree of disability, exceeding a certain age, etc., so there are a whole range of people exempt from paying it. But this did not relieve you of your obligation to carry out public television missions or public media. Moreover, in the Radio and TV Act we wrote down more and more obligations resulting from this title, i.e. increasing the number of programmes for people with disabilities They are expensive to introduce audiodescriptions or employ people who translate some programs in a live sign language. These are expensive services which significantly increase the cost of operating public media, but the media cannot be exempted from this obligation and therefore some kind of funding should be provided for. Since the State has exempted certain persons from the obligation to pay the licence, the State should therefore provide additional revenues to enable the public service remit to be carried out to the appropriate extent. I would remind you that in 2009, if I remember correctly, the government urged many Poles to break the law and break the constitution as well. By the mouth of Prime Minister Tusk, he urged not to pay the subscription, and at that time neither the government nor the parliament proposed any legal solutions which would legally allow people not to pay the subscription, which led to the fact that very many people in the world are normally indebted and prosecuted by the tax offices because they thought that since the Prime Minister of the Parliament spokesperson said that they could break the law, they could break it with impunity. And at this point, the National Radio and Television Council has a half a million requests for resolution of these cases, it seems. The National Radio and Television Council does not have enough people to look at these conclusions. The National Council looks, as far as I know, quite favorably at this, knowing that many citizens were misled at that time. This, too, caused a drastic decline in subscription revenues. Therefore, it was only in the following years that the problem got so much deeper that it caused television to stop developing, stopped creating new works at the highest level and stopped developing technologically. The ideas for introducing a digital platform have fallen. They led to such a situation that they were e.g. digital recording of events and digital emissions, but the conversion was analog. So all the progress on one side and on the other side has been offset by the fact that there was no money to create the right infrastructure, for example. The whole process was digital. These issues have been largely fixed. And that's it. How were they doing then? Well, it was done so well that no investments were made. I would also like to remind you that almost 5,000 journalists and TV workers have been thrown out on trash contracts. It was the way the previous presidents handled it. Of course, they also took loans. It's just that you can't take credit for a public mission, because it's a commercial operation, the company has some responsibilities. To be honest, I am surprised that the board of directors at the time allowed such things to be financed by loans de facto consumption, because it is even from the company's point of view that it is consumption, not investment, because this is not what you earn, ladies and gentlemen. We have decided to fix these issues and give the public media a chance to keep the best technological standards, and this, of course, costs them to create new events and so that they can include as many Poles as possible... to direct programmes absolutely to all Poles, including high culture, to create new program offers, to modernise public radios. It is important to remember that there are 17 local radio stations, Poles usually choose these radio stations to find out what is happening in their region. And it's not just information issues, it's also cultural issues and stuff... They are not presented as Warsaw-centricly as in nationwide media, and let's not hide, nationwide media, regardless of whether they are private media or public media, they are always Warsaw-centric, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u13	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You spoke here about the cost of emissions. I understand that you know the exact or almost exact calculation of the cost of emissions. Tell me if it's in the cost of this issue. Or maybe it's at other costs, I don't know where they're placed. There are also costs of creating stripes on television. You can see that there's a need to create... or, as I say, there's a great intellectual contribution there. Tell me if you're looking at who's doing this, how much it costs. This is a case that raises a lot of controversy, and I would like an answer. That's the first question. And the other. You spoke about the legislative process related to the drafting of this document, this draft law in the Sejm. Could you tell me when he was affected, how he was assessed, how long this trial lasted in the Seym? You have judged this legislative process so well, the drafting of this document in the Seym. I would like to hear from the Minister what it means to be good. And if you could tell me how this legislative process was going... Thank you. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u15	You're welcome, Minister. If I may ask that the answers be focused on the question, because the next ones will also address it, so that other issues... We will not, of course, limit the Minister, but for the deliberations to go smoothly, that is a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u16	As regards the specific costs, the individual elements of public company expenditure, they are covered by the company's secrecy, so I will not talk about them publicly. As regards the legislative process, it was presented by the rapporteur senator in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, may I add one sentence? Can I have one sentence? As a supplement, uniquely. Complement, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u18	Mr Marshal, you have encouraged the Minister to respond briefly and the Minister has responded to what he has responded. He didn't say anything. Minister, we heard exactly what Senator Zdrojewska said. You valued it when you said it was a good legislative process, because the Sejm has this initiative. I'd like to hear from you. And if you don't know, tell me I don't know, that's all. How this process took place in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u19	There's a principle of rational... The marshal told me to speak briefly. Yeah, that's why I'm talking. Excuse me, may I? You're welcome. There's a principle of rational legislator. Since the laws in Poland deal with 560 people, 460 Members and 100 Senators, I assume that the process from which it comes, and the law which is established, is always of the highest quality and meets the highest standards. Thank you very much. Beautiful! Bravo! Great!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u21	Thank you very much. The question is... I haven't received an answer at the committee meeting, it's been two days since then, and I think today the Minister may be able to give me an answer. Who was the advisor to the Members who prepared this bill in terms of financial considerations? Is the sum that has been recorded in this Act, i.e. almost PLN 2 billion, resulting from the calculations of the legislators of the law, whether the originators gained knowledge from information, e.g. National Radio and Television Council, Ministry of Culture and National Heritage or other bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u22	Mrs. Senator, we also answered back then, and I think the chairman of the National Radio and Television was talking about it, but I'm going to say it again. I checked the justification of the bill and in my opinion it is based on calculations that are available on the websites of the National Radio and Television Council, because the National Radio and Television Council places such a report every year containing the exact costs of the mission, and every once in a while... Especially last year, materials came up that said exactly how much this public mission should cost. The Ministry of Culture's calculations show that these amounts are slightly smaller. However, as I have seen, the calculations that are included here are largely based on the calculations of the National Council. We basically know these calculations, we know more or less who is the author of whose opinion, and when they appear somewhere in the justifications of some draft laws or statements of Members or Senators, we know what materials were used, because we are surrounded by the same documents all the time. However, it follows from what I have observed that Members have gone a step further because they have also exempted persons who did not have registered receivers and could be exempted from such a charge that they have rights under the Act. Therefore, in my view, these calculations were modified. So in my opinion... I don't know, I didn't cooperate with anybody on this bill, but in my opinion, the data of the National Radio and Television Council were included here, plus those calculations that involved additional people who didn't have registered receivers and who were exempt from the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Your question is Senator Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we talk a lot about the compatibility of the decision contained in the bill... Except it's not public aid. One of the elements required in total This is because the compensation ratio should be established earlier, i.e. ex ante, in an objective and transparent manner. The second element that interests me is that the company carries out an imposed, clearly defined public service. President Kurski, when he shared his guiding thought with us, told us what the structure of spending on television looked like. And here I refer all the time to a clearly defined public service. Well, education is one element of the mission. There's 5% on education. costs. Since education is directed mainly at children and young people, I would like to ask the Minister: do you think that what is in the television framework reflects the idea of a public mission? First of all, it's the daily joy of life on the basis of the Gospel; the second program is a journey without luggage, based on Psalm 23; the puzzles of animals lasting 13 minutes; the nature of the hunters; the caleidoscope of young people run by students of school from Torun Of course, we're talking about media school; the program "Regional" from Television Trwam, the program "Seventh Sacrament" from Television Trwam... Well, Lord... ...and a musical abeccadle lasting 7 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u25	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Senator, when it comes to the issue of state aid, that is the issue... You refer to the general provisions and these general provisions are, of course, fulfilled, as confirmed by the approval of the European Commission's Communication on State aid rules. We know how much a mission is gonna cost more or less... When this announcement... A year and a half ago. 1.5 years ago, such a communication was agreed with the European Commission. I was in charge of the negotiation process myself, so I know what I'm talking about. As for the specific programs that you have indicated, I will essentially refer to two issues that are recorded in the Radio and Television Act. The bill says clearly that... Into the microphone, Minister, if you don't mind... Your friends are bothering you. In the Radio and TV Act, it is very clear what values, from which paradigm the resulting paradigm is to be shown in the media. See, there is a clear indication that Christian values too. On the other hand... And even they are distinguished. As far as programme issues are concerned, if you're asking me to assess programme issues, it's very clear because I'm a democrat... I think there should be some division and separation of things from others. I am against politicians in any way influencing programming issues. The Radio and TV Act clearly states that it is the sender who shapes his own programming issues and cannot be subject to any influence. This is protected by the National Radio and Television Council. And I am, because I am financially overseeing television for the Treasury, in fact I am such a vice minister of the television treasure... It is not even right for me to be critical or positive about what television does, because someone might think it's some kind of influence on television, and I try to avoid it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u27	Thank you. I'll ask Senator Halina Poor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask the question because we have a summary of this ad hoc aid. I calculated that since in 2017 television received compensation of less than PLN 1 billion and it was for the years 2010 and 2017, this is about PLN 126 million per year. In 2019 she received PLN 1 billion 260 million. That was two years' compensation, which was about 630 million a year. And now there is a proposal to make this compensation for the years 2018, 2019, 2020. I would therefore like to ask when the income lost is calculated and when the amount of compensation is determined. Since in 2019 television has already received compensation for 2018, where did the idea of getting compensation for 2018 come from? There's kind of a discrepancy here for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u29	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u30	Of course, there is no discrepancy, for a very simple reason. In principle, three points have been taken into account. In the case of the first compensation, the narrower categories of persons were taken into account. In the case of the second compensation, the wider category of persons made redundant was taken into account, i.e. There were people who had not been taken into account before, and the amount of this compensation was 2 times 980 million, because it was in 2 years. But because we also took into account the possibilities of the state budget This is also in the explanatory memorandum of the previous law that we have explicitly written down to PLN 1 billion 260 million, if I remember correctly, because the state could not at that time afford to compensate for the whole. In this amount, which is currently, we take into account the amount that has not previously been compensated, i.e. the difference between PLN 2 times PLN 980 million and PLN 1 billion 260 million, and the catalogue of persons for whom compensation is paid has been extended, to persons who were not previously included because they were not registered and still have the right to be exempted from the obligation to pay the subscription. That's where the money came from. And this amount is bigger, it's probably almost 2 billion 800 million zlotys, and I can't remember how it is in the bill, in this project that we're talking about now, written. However, it was also limited because of the lack of financial capacity of the State to the smaller amount which is included in the draft law as compensation amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u31	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u32	Minister, I would ask you to clarify clearly... Because you said that the state provided the right to information, and that's what you said. And the right to disinformation also ensures? I'd ask you to answer that question. Because the state is carrying out a misinformation mission. Is this a state mission? Another short question about the downloadability of subscriptions. What's the cheatability, what's the percentage? 'Cause my subscription's pulling my bailiff, and it's pulling me back. I don't pay my subscription... That's bad. ...and I will never pay it until such a mission is carried out by this government. So what's the cheatability? My money is being drained by a bailiff, even though I don't watch national media. And another question. Are public media available to all? I'll tell you where I'm going with this. There was such a thing as a commune. It's a record for someone. This person was banned, isolated, given such a black ticket and had no access to public media. In modern times, I'm the kind of person that's written down, even though... Good. Excuse me? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, ask questions and don't pay attention to the voices in the courtroom. Although I was President of the Third City of Lubuskie Voivodeship, although I was President of the Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship and I am a member of the Board of the Polish Cities Association, after PiS took over power I received a wolf ticket and banned admission to public television. For 5 years I have never been invited, although as a public person affecting the life of the region I had a lot to say. Are there, say, records for individuals? And one last question. Did President Kurski get an invitation to the Senate debate? And if so, why isn't he here today? Why didn't he have the courage to face the Senate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u34	I'm gonna start with the last question because I'm not the director of the Senate's invitations. This, it seems, is the Senate's committee or marshals making such invitations. I'm also not a TV president's attorney, and I'm not gonna explain anything to him. Besides, according to the principle I was talking about earlier, I do not speak publicly about what I like or do not like in the media, because I do not want anyone to think that this is some form of pressure to shape the program. That's one thing. About the record issue... Well, I understand that's your subjective opinion. I believe that anyone who has something to say in a public debate should have the right to express it in the public media, because it is the right of such a person and the duty of these media. If there's a line... So this law is being broken. If the law is violated, if that's what you think, report it to the appropriate authorities. To the D.A.'s office. Regarding the issue of subscription downloadability, studies show that 96 or 97% Poles have a radio and television receiver. Anyone who has a device capable of receiving radio or television signals immediately shall pay a fee. It is also a constitutional obligation. There are dozens of rights enshrined in the Constitution, and I think the responsibilities are only five, if I remember correctly, I might be wrong. And one of them is to pay public danins, that is, anyone who does not pay public tribute, in some sense breaks the constitution. So I wouldn't be happy about it, and I wouldn't brag about breaking the law and the IRS having to involve employees and take any money from someone. This is especially about public figures. If public people say such things, they behave like they did when Donald Tusk went out on the stand and urged people to break the law. And now they're breaking the law. They have the word Constitution on their lips, and not paying public danins is breaking the constitution. As I say, there are only a few civic duties and several dozen rights. I would like everyone who talks about rights to do the same thing to their country. And as for the people who pay... Right now, I think, about 13%. Those who should be paid pay a subscription. And he provides revenue in the range of PLN 700 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u35	Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright. Senator, you have repeatedly said that such large public money is justified by the need... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, this man said to me, "Get the fuck out of my face." Who's heard that? They can't hear... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, it's obviously written down, it'll be in the transcript. And I'd ask a senator whose name I won't call, not to disturb, not to make such individual remarks, to refrain from commenting. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u36	Minister, you have repeatedly said that such large public money, which is intended for public media, is justified by the fact that these media carry out a public mission, which you have caused laughter among many senators, also at my place, I do not deny. According to the definition, a public service mission is a reliable display of In your opinion, the public television chase for the Marshal of the Senate, Tomasz Grodzki, and earlier Paul Adamowicz, namely that more than 1 000 200 information was published within 2 months on the basis of anonymous whistleblowers, nowhere unconfirmed information, which by definition excludes them as information, that is the execution of a public mission, so defined? Let me remind you of the definition: a fair representation of the whole variety of events and phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u37	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u38	As regards the assessment of the programme in terms of compliance with the rules of law, reliability, etc., our national regulator, the National Radio and Television Council is appointed to do so. I can only repeat what I've said twice already. I will repeat for the third time: I will not speak in any way, either positive or negative, about any programme implemented by public media, because I think it would be illegal to influence media policy. And I encourage everyone else who has any influence on public media to avoid this kind of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u39	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you say that you will not speak individually, and that is understandable, because you do not represent yourself here, but you represent the government, i.e. Ministry of Culture, but through it the government. I would therefore like to know the opinion of the government and your department, not your personal opinion. Because you are acting on behalf of the government for PLN 2 billion for public television and other public media. Therefore, you must also have your own opinion on the quality of the implementation of what you call a public mission. If you do not have such an opinion, And from what you've said, the last one and the previous one, it would seem that perhaps you don't have it. You have no right to apply for this money at all. Because that would mean you don't know what's going on, but the money is what you want. I would like to ask, then, what is the attitude of the Ministry of Culture, not of you, to the charges of civil society in Poland, to the charges of non-governmental associations and organisations, pro-democratic and pro-Citizens, that public media, including public television, are practicing party propaganda. First of all, propaganda for the ruling party, but also for the coalition parties of the governing parties. Do you, as the Ministry of Culture, share this view, deny it, or do you have any other viewpoint? Similarly, with regard to the heything charges mentioned here just now by Senator Wcisla, whom you infamously claimed, in my opinion, to give up. So I'm asking you not your opinion, but the views of the Ministry of Culture. Hey, is it grown or not? Thank you... At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, information, materials, reports and videos were presented, which were, to be honest, shocking and which showed that the public media were saturated with party propaganda. Enough to say what the presentation looks like in general and information about political parties and individual politicians. If there's information about the ruling party, it's always positive. If the opposition parties are, of course, in a negative context. I'm talking about reports, reports, everything that was presented, among others. at the meeting of the cultural committee. I want to know if the Ministry of Culture thinks that lies have been presented, not really that all of this doesn't exist, or that you have a different position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u41	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator, Art. 2, amendment of Article 11b... now I'm looking where it is. Art. Article 11b (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 4th amendment states that the National Council of Radiophony and Television will determine by resolution by 15 March the total nominal value of the treasury securities, rounded to... 5 states, in turn, that the National Radio and Television Council will forward to the Minister responsible for budget matters within 7 days of the date of adoption of the resolution referred to in paragraph 1. 4, request for the transfer of securities to public broadcasting units. The Ministry of Culture does not apply for any money and even the government does not apply for any money. It is the National Council of Radiophony and Television, the only authority in Poland entitled to assess the reliability of materials and to speak on this issue, divides money by resolution and asks for this money to the Minister of Finance, because the Minister of Finance is responsible for this money. This money is transferred to the National Radio and Television Council. There's only one thing to remember. This money is spent on those activities which are included in the programming and financial plans by the National Radio and Television Council agreed with the public media. So we're not in this trial. As far as the government's position is concerned, as far as I know, the government did not formulate any position concerning public media, including. It's because there's no obligation. In my view, he would have exceeded his powers if he had formulated such a position. Because of the things I've said three times before, so I won't repeat them... What I understand is that there's an answer to a bunch of questions that have been asked at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u43	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u44	I must say, I am amazed at some of the information that has been provided by the Minister. I would like to draw your attention to page 7, where the possibilities of exemption from subscription fees are very precise. We're 75 years after the war, and you're saying that we're growing the number of war invalids. That's how you... That's not true. That's supposed to be the increasing number of layoffs. That's not true. The second exemption, which is very important and important, concerns those pensioners who do not reach 50% the lowest pension. Looks like we're growing the number of poor pensioners and a group of first-degree invalids. Well, that's hard to believe. In short, I would like to say that I do not see any justification for such a general statement that the number of persons entitled to exemption from subscription fees has so dramatically increased. That's one thing. And the other thing. What I was just talking about raises the question of how in these particular groups these exemptions developed, how many conclusions reached the National Radio and Television Council, because it is the National Radio and Television Council that is entitled to respond to requests for exemption from subscription fees. Third case. In 2003, the proceeds from the subscription amounted to around 900 million, and in 2004 there was a free collapse of the proceeds from the subscription obligations, not from that speech by Donald Tusk, which you called on and which took place 10 years later. I would add that in 2003 we actually had more than 900 million and in 2008 720 million of subscription fees, which is about what is currently present. If you take seriously all the analyses that appear in relation to only this one element, it will turn out that, of course, there is no reason today to increase for this reason. I would like to stress: for this reason, . amounts for public television. There's another thing you said. You spoke of new duties on public television and called them missionary tasks. Well, first of all, I want to question the radical increase in funds for the public mission expressed in the scale of PLN 2 billion. I do not see in public television the care of this culture or this part of culture, a part of education, a message that would be built on the most important successes of Polish culture, people of the world of culture, artistic events, but also on language and care for language, which should not be a language, in short, building social divisions, I softly define it. I do not remember that special funds were earmarked for the promotion of Olga Tokarczuk's works. or to show her the lecture, to carry out the broadcast from the real event of her Nobel Prize lecture. I also do not remember the special promotion of the activities of the most important directors of recent years, e.g. Pavlikowski with his.Ida, Cold War etc., etc. It slips away, in my opinion, on television as if public television were ashamed of it. You are absolutely wrong to say that this does not affect economic elements. I'll talk about it in my speech. I'll get your attention... Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. It's a very good speech, but I'd like you to come to the questions. I'll continue. The last thing about the question, the mission itself. How does the Ministry of Culture estimate the value of missionary activity in 2020?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u45	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Mahatma Gandhi said, let's be the change we want to see in the world. I dedicate these words to you because you have been very rudely manipulating my words, saying that I have found that there have been an increase in the number of war disabilities, people with a certain category of disability or people who are experiencing poverty. I didn't do I didn't say that. Absolutely not. I said very precisely on the basis of which the amount of compensation was increased. If you would like to change the language of the public debate, I would very much like you not to manipulate my words because you are misleading your constituents and all of our listeners in general. If you have such a passion, please... Because it's like a thief screams to catch a thief! And vice versa. As far as the substance is concerned... As for the question of where a wider group of people came from, I'm going to say that they've been covered... First of all, there have been new redundancies, second of all, this group of people has been extended to include people who have not been registered. But if they were, they'd still be exempt, because many people who are exempted by the law from having to pay their subscription assume that if they're exempt, they don't have to register. They have to register, but they're fired. We have assumed here that people who assume that they do not have to register are also exempted because they also use public television. As many as 97% of Poles have a radio and television receiver and therefore have an obligation to pay the fee. Those persons shall be released but shall be taken into account in the estimation. Not everyone reads into the bill. They think if they're fired, they don't have to register. And that's the whole conclusion of my speech. As far as Olga Tokarczuk is concerned, I would like to say that the Book Institute, during the term of the director appointed by Mr Piotr Gliński, has translated the most literature by Olga Tokarczuk into foreign languages, into 30 languages. So much has been translated for this term. As for programming issues, the question was again raised here that public television did not display something there. This is the fifth time I've said this: I won't comment on it. None of us who have any TV surveillance should say what he likes and what he doesn't like. So that it doesn't: I'm just talking about politics. Of course, Parliament, the Senate or the Sejm, can say anything they want, and we, who supervise, should avoid such comments, especially as we ultimately represent the government. Since when is someone who supervises... Quiet. Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Since then, Senator, since we have democracy and public media, we have been carrying out a public mission for all citizens. We have only one duty as a government. - control the spending of resources on the purpose and care for public property. So? Mr. Senator Szejnfeld, I draw your attention. The issue of the mission is controlled by an independent constitutional body, the National Radio and Television Council, and this authority can speak. That is why he is chosen so that we do not have such a duty. That's what a democratic state looks like. We have neither the right nor the duty. This right and obligation has a constitutional independent body, which is the National Radio and Television Council. Most of the questions you ask me, apart from technical questions about the technology of spending or the accounting of this money, should actually be addressed to the CRRiT, because they regulate this issue, not us. The government doesn't do it, and it shouldn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u47	Thank you, Minister. There's no more questions. Thank you very much. He's the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. Would Mr President like to comment on the bill? No. But maybe there'll be questions for you. They will be. There's gonna be questions, so I'm gonna need you to go to the podium. Senator Zdrojewska asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u48	Dear Mr President, I kindly ask you to refer to the complaint that... a copy of this complaint has come to us, to the senators, and you have been referred to this complaint on 23 December 2019. It concerns the intervention of the citizen on the conduct of public television, namely that in television news issued on 22 December 2019 at 19.30 p.m. in Programme 1 and led by the editor Krzysztof Adamczyk four times the case of alleged property benefits received by the Senate Marshal, Prof. Tomasz Grodzki, was raised in some news. This was already mentioned in the first sentences after the launch of the news release, which made this fact a leading message, in the middle of the program for about 40 seconds, at the end of the program for just over 3 minutes and at the end of the program, at 8:00 p.m., when the audience was invited to the TVP Info for a discussion on... Senator, this has nothing to do with the point now. That's the question, please wait. But there will be a question... Are you the one in charge, Mr. Chairman? You will be accountable in a moment, Mr President. But I'm not just gonna answer that question. Well, I guess it's a waste of our time. I'm very sorry, but please let me finish. You're acting the way President Kurski was acting yesterday, just unacceptably. Let me finish. ...and at the very end of the program, at 8:00 p.m., when the audience was invited to TVP Info to discuss alleged bribes taken by the Senate Marshal. I was just watching the news. These materials, which were a large part of the entire edition of the news, were devoted to some alleged bribes, they were attacks on Marshal Grodzki. At the end of the news, the journal invited the audience to TVP Info to continue the topic of alleged bribes. This was said, but it was not informed that there would be a message from the Senate Marshal in Programme 1. Sir, this complaint has come to you. The Lord says he won't be able to answer that question, but I would like to ask you what you did about it, how you dealt with this complaint, what you did. How many such complaints have been received by the National Radio and Television Council? Please also tell us whether you were interested in how much at the moment the Polish Television has processes concerning just cases similar to this complaint addressed to us by the citizen. Please answer this question: how many complaints were there and how did you handle them? So far, I've found one complaint you've dealt with, which was probably about the Confederate party, but maybe there was more. I'm asking for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u50	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I came here as a guest invited by your Marshal to the Senate meeting to discuss changes to the Radio and Television Act regarding compensation for the lost benefits of the licence waivers, and I am prepared to do so. If there are any such questions... I would like to remind you that this is not a draft of the National Council or a government project, but a parliamentary project, so I can provide explanations to a limited extent on the subjects on which the Senator, Madam President, speaks. On Monday, there was a 6- or 7-hour discussion, and it seems that everything that could have been said was said. I guess that didn't satisfy anyone. If the senator has any specific questions, of course the National Council will answer in writing. If a complaint is lodged, it shall be in the proceedings. The exact annual number of complaints is in every report of the National Council, this report will soon be submitted, and you will be giving your opinion. I also talked about complaints on Monday at our six-hour meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u51	Thank you. There you go, Senator, one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u52	Thank you very much. Then I'll ask you to answer in writing. Like I said. I find it highly inappropriate to accuse us that we shouldn't... You should be prepared. There are dozens of people working at the National Radio and Television Council. Taxpayers pay huge amounts of money a year for this, and you come unprepared, you are unable to answer the question of how many complaints have been received. You're talking to the Senate... Senator, please don't accuse me of unprepared... You're sending me away... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of Witold Kołodziejski:...because I am unable to answer everything.]] Mr. Marshal... You won't be able to answer these questions either. Mr. Marshal, please... Mr President, listen to me and then answer me. Answer me. Listen to me and just answer me. I really... We've got... I didn't interrupt you, and don't interrupt me either. You should answer that question. If you are unable to answer right now, I ask you to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u53	Thank you. Mr President, you have just answered the questions of the Deputy Minister of Culture. I asked you questions for a reason, because many questions were directed by your Vice Minister to the National Radio and Television Council, so don't be surprised that such questions are being asked. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u54	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister! However, I would like to encourage you not only to talk about the fact that we give 2 billion PLN in securities to public media, but... Well, when you give money, it's connected to a target. You are... the Minister said: I am a politician, I do not judge. I understand that you, Mr President, were not a politician and are not... I was. Were you? Of course. Oh, please. Come on. But okay, let's leave the evidence... Please, Senator, ask me a question. Minister, that's why I'd ask you to... What party did you represent? Exactly, could you tell me what party you represented? That's the first question, if that's the case. Second question. Could the Minister tell us, if you remember, how many penalties and what penalties, so globally, have been imposed on public and private broadcasters? Let's say 100 or 90 penalties on these, and one penalty on these, without getting into the details. One last question. In view of what you asked Senator Szejnfeld of the Minister, and I understand that you will answer this question: do you consider that as a person who combines finance with purpose, that what he is doing... Given what you heard during the debate at the committee meeting at the first meeting, do you think this is a TV mission? I'm just suggesting that you say yes or no, if you don't mind me asking for a brief... Yes. Yes. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u55	Thank you. For the first two...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u56	I was a member of Law and Justice. I'm not a member of Law and Justice. The number of complaints shall be reported in the reports at the meetings of the committee in question. During this six-hour discussion, we also discussed this. As far as penalties are concerned, no penalty imposed last year concerned the issues we discussed at the committee's meeting, i.e. issues relating to widely understood complaints concerning information and publicity issues, I am talking here in the context of public television and commercial broadcasters. Penalties were imposed in the previous 2 years, for exceeding advertising time, unauthorised product placement, mainly related to commercial communications, or under-adjustment of age qualifications. As regards the allocation of the subscription or the participation of public money in the financing of the public service mission, I would say that on Monday at the committee meeting it was also said that the level of funding from the subscription, in terms of public television itself, and I would remind you that compensation and subscription are intended not only for public television, is 14 or 13%. I can't remember exactly right now. Everything else is culture, sport, entertainment, movie etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. First, it's a reflection. It seems to me that this bill we're talking about is such a hot potato, which convinces me that the Senate, if it has to deal with this project, because formally it has to, should reject it. When the questions concerning this law and those 2 billion for public media were addressed to the Minister of Culture, the Minister redirected these questions to the National Radio and Television Council and even tried to quote the relevant provision in this respect, which establishes these competences. And when there were questions, Mr President, Minister, to you, you said, "Well, now, but this is a parliamentary bill." None of the authorities seem to want to sign this bill. I understand that these 2 billions are the idea of Law and Justice in the form of Members who are mostly of the Seym, because the opposition did not sign up for it. So 2 billion are going to go to the ruling party. Yes? I feel that way after all these speeches. But this is, Minister, a reflection not for you. That's not a question. Yes. And to you, Minister, I am forced in connection with the position that you have taken with the Minister of Culture, to pass on the same questions that I have raised, because the Minister said that neither he individually nor as a representative of the Ministry, Ministry or Government... He thinks... I don't think he can speak because it's the responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council. So I'd like to ask you this. You were at the whole meeting, it must be emphasized with respect, because not everyone came and not everyone was whole. So you're familiar with it. You can't say today that you're surprised by the question. With materials, reports, reports, also video materials, which were presented at the committee meeting held by Senator Zdrojewska. I have a question. What you saw, what you read, what you heard, were lies, weren't it, were those speeches directed towards public television and other public media? Because it's not for you, and it's not for the National Council. Were those lies, slanders, slanders, or was that true? Perhaps you have a different view, I would like to see that view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u60	Is that one question? Is what I saw true? Yes? Minister, you are an intelligent man... Senator, this is a typical rhetorical question: yes or no... And I'm sure you know what I asked, and you know how to answer that. There were dozens of presentations, dozens of them weren't there. If we're talking statistics, about summaries, then I'm going to say there were statistics of 2 institutes, 3 others weren't. If we're talking about journalistic associations, then I'm going to say that one association was, the biggest wasn't, and so on. Not the whole truth, the inaccuracies, some things completely false, the other true... I don't know, we'd have to analyze every minute of each meeting, every presentation. But yes, there was a lot of inaccuracies, and it certainly wasn't an objective picture, as I talked about at the committee meeting. If you don't mind, there's only one question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u61	Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u62	Well, then let's just focus on just one presentation, not on those writing materials, reports, statistics reports, etc., which I say are devastating. They were presented there. It's like three minutes, you remember. The video materials that were... I haven't seen these materials. And you, Minister, as Chairman of the National Council of Radio and Television, are watching the TV that you control only at the meetings of the Senate's cultural committee? Except for this committee... Mr. Senator, I didn't see those materials at the meeting, I didn't see those materials, so... So you're not... No, I'm not going back... You don't know... I wasn't at that part of the meeting, I wasn't there. As I understand it, you are not in a position to carry out your duties as chairman of the Council. I am able to, but it is not their duty to see the material at the cultural committee meeting. But, as I understand it, you should know this before the sitting, not just during the sitting. And if you didn't have the opportunity to read the materials during the meeting, then he's done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u63	Mr. Senator, you may, of course, respond in the course of your speeches, but now I would like to ask you a specific question, not... You said you weren't here... I haven't seen these materials. ...and you haven't seen... No. Well, you have to take it and don't comment. I have a question for you, Mr. Chairman... Oh, no, Mrs. Danuta, Senator Danuta Jazlowiecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. Please formulate the questions. I'm sure you'll answer my question as chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. Well, I would like to ask what is the annual cost of running public television and what percentage is external revenue, I mean advertising revenue and revenue from other sources that you receive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u65	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator, for this question, because this is a question that actually concerns this amendment. Forgive me if I don't say ad hoc like this... because I'd have to. Just count it. But with regard to the extent to which the mission costs are covered by the subscriptions approved in the 2020 plans... These are the financial and programme plans that have already been approved by the Boards, but also by the Programme Councils and by the National Radio and Television Council. In the case of Polish Television, the cost of the mission is PLN 2 billion 625 thousand. From this coverage from the subscription, according to the passed resolution of the national council, is 20%, or PLN 331 million. Therefore, if the compensation had not entered into force, it could be said that the public funding of the public service programme activity was 12%. That's about a tenth. That's enough. I don't know, Mr. Senator or enough. I don't think that's enough. Because this also applies to Polish Radio, regional radio stations... In the Act on Radiophony and Television, our resolution, when we split the subscription for 2020, we took into account that half of these revenues, these PLN 331 million, are compulsoryly allocated to Polish Television field offices. If the senator says it's enough, tell him later in the field that it's enough money. Because there's a dramatic situation. Everything goes to propaganda. As regards the system of financing public media and the Charter of Duty, Dear Member States, Minister Lewandowski explained this here. This is because the duty card is a commitment and agreement between the media and the media control office acting on behalf of the State. Public money that is transferred to public media is public aid, but if it meets the criteria in the Duty Charter, it will not be illegal public aid. In a word: the duty card determines the upper limit of expenditure or this power supply, this public injection, an injection into the media market, which is also a highly competitive commercial market, i.e. control of the flow of money as well as control of individual tasks. Therefore, the duty card is a certain fuse and not the very way of obtaining money, whether from taxes or from a subscription or from another system, only the way they are spent is the most important in this system. This is what Minister Lewandowski said, the net cost of emissions must not exceed 10% Subscription funding. As far as other financial parameters are concerned, I will say that the current subscription system is so calculated and so designed that if it was operational, the subscription funds from this system should be at the level of PLN 3.5 billion. Such a law was in force and in force. Theoretically, because we know that not everyone pays This amount is presented to the European Commission as a starting point. President Kurski, the day before yesterday at the meeting of the cultural committee, showed what it looks like in other countries. In short, Senator, I said that the amount of the supply is 12%. public contribution to public television finance. We are only talking about television here, but of course we should know that this compensation and subscription is intended for all public media companies, namely radio, a large nationwide radio, and 17 regional radio stations. In order to take account of the level of compensation that will be transferred to public television for these reasons, the level of emission funding will be within 50%. What I'm hoping for. So it's gonna be about 50%. , and maybe even a little over 50% of public funds and 50% own revenue from advertising activities. Let me remind you that over the years they have changed, i.e. gradually decreasing, and not even gradually, the revenues from the subscription, and yet the activity of the sender developed. It was related to the development strategy of the entire media market. In the times to which you referred, there were 2 national programmes and regional bands, and now there are several programmes, including thematic channels such as culture, history and sport, especially the latter one being a very expensive programme. Well, it's a challenge of our time, that's how broadcasters work today. I'm not talking about spending on new media, etc. I repeat, the information from this is one-tenth of the total cost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u67	Thank you very much. I'm gonna vote in a minute, and I want to ask you a question, too. Minister, what are the personnel costs in the last five years of public television? Do they grow, are they stable, or are they shrinking?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u68	I'll answer in writing, now I can't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u69	Okay, I'll take it in writing. The question is, what do the personnel costs look like? Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u70	Mr Marshal, before I ask Mr President a question, a brief corrigendum to the five times repeated by your minister of tough assurance that the representatives of this government do not judge the content in the media, especially in public or public media. Well, that is, of course, repeatedly confirmed not true. I will only give one example of what your boss, the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński said. He's not my boss, Mr. Senator. I'm here to see the Minister... Oh, okay. Mr. Senator's a little late. You're crazy, that's crazy, that's what the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture said in November in the live TVP program, in relation to the material about NGOs, when after a month of campaigning for NGOs, this material touched his wife personally. It's the title of correction. And I have a question for the president, very sorry, personally. Well, after asking Senator Czarnobaj, I will be asking about your political activity, because this is very interesting. You are the head of an institution whose main objective is to ensure the open and pluralistic character of radiophony and television, including public or public media, and you were both city councillor and regional councillor, and three times as well as That's what I'm reading. The candidate of the ruling party, the Law and Justice, to the Sejm. Unfortunately, at no time... I mean. You seem to have run unsuccessfully. But also, in the meantime, you've been to the National Radio and Television Council twice, including twice you've been her boss. So I have a question: in what years have you been an active member, a party activist of Law and Justice, and in what years have you been on an episode of ensuring the Republic of Poland's open and pluralistic character of radiophony and television? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u71	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u72	How... Every time I was at National Council... I've never combined this with a function... with a presence in a political party. I wasn't a member of the political party. What about a member of the PiS club? Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u73	Yeah, yeah? I'm just gonna ask. Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u74	So last time you ran for Parliament as a member and chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u75	No. No? How? Good. Thank you... No. I mean... Straight... So, what years were you a member of Law and Justice? I stand by what I said. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In what years were you a member of Law and Justice? And in what years were you in the Seym of the Councillor of Law and Justice? And what does that have to do with... Mr. Senator, well, I answered that. You can read it in Wikipedia. Let's really respect our time. That's not the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u76	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I have two questions, including one strictly concerning the law. A motion has been made, supported by that side of the room, to reject the bill. And if Don't give me that. This is what happened, how will this affect the Polish Radio regional radio stations? What would a possible lack of that money mean for these radio stations? What would that do? I'm asking you this because then the same senators who are so eager to bring it up, go on the radio and praise... I mean. and themselves, and in general they will praise these regional radio stations. That's the first question. And the other. Perhaps the answer to this question will explain some of the motives of the senators on the other side of the room. Namely: how is it with the ratings of Polish television? Can you assess whether, for example.. information programmes are viewed better on time issues Or is it more like it? Is their ratings increasing or decreasing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u78	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, when it comes to TV ratings and information programmes, I do not want to go too deep into these issues because this is not directly translated into the amendment that is being discussed today. However, as I said at the committee meeting, the share of public television, i.e. all public television programmes, is 30% in the market. And it's the biggest, i.e. TVP Group has the largest market share in the number of viewers Because in terms of share in income, it is in some place, because, of course, commercial operators and corporations, including those involved in distribution, i.e. Digital Polsat or NC+, are far ahead of public television. But when it comes to audience participation, public television has over 30%, it is an increasing share. This shows that the public television offer has a significant audience. Indeed, it can be said that it is addressed to a broad section of society. But let me remind you that this amendment is not just about public television, it is about all public media. And the second question... the first question that you actually asked is very well founded, because it is precisely the reason why the National Radio and Television Council did not agree with the duty cards this year that there was no financing mechanism, which is what today's law is proposing. We did not sign them because the level of funding from the planned subscription revenues of those which are normally collected by the Polish Post would be so low that actually our cards, what we could agree to, would put companies into bankruptcy. So without the source of funding for the requirements of credit cards... We can say that the lack of such solutions puts companies, especially regional ones, the smaller ones that cannot defend themselves marketly, into bankruptcy. Public television can do it, because as we can see, the 12% ... There will simply be more advertising and more commercial program, and less missionary expenditure, but radio companies, regional companies will certainly not be able to handle it and it is simply a sentence for them. We managed to extend it, drag it a year, but the problem still existed. If this bill... If this amendment enters into force, it will give us the basis for agreeing on the 5 years ahead, i.e. on the basis of the calculations contained in the explanatory memorandum to the Act. So if you'll just... I have the impression that you want to punish all public media and are ready to give up the whole offer that the public media are offering because they don't like the stripes in the news. The scale is completely different, ladies and gentlemen. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the President of the National Radio and Television Council how, according to what criteria and what you consider to be a public mission. And how do you value what public media should broadcast as part of a public service mission? Because I do not know exactly how you calculate it, but I know how the price of this mission is supposed to affect whether the grant of PLN 1 billion 900 million is acceptable to the European Union, in general. And my second question: do you, as Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, not mind the influence of active politicians on the quality of broadcasting? E.g. Mr. Michał Dworczyk. It is difficult to say that he is a man above the party divisions, because he is a high government official, an active activist of the PiS. And he's the chairman of the Polonia Television Programme Council. Or Mr. Dziedziczak, whose functions Mr. President probably knows better than I do. Are such activists of a particular party, groups not disturbing you as chairman, I stress, the National Radio and Television Council, which is supposed to guard quality, impartiality and not create facts, and objective reporting of reality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u82	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u83	Senator, the mission duties of all public broadcasters are defined in Article. 21 Radio and TV Act. I don't have a bill right now, if any of you deliver it to me, I'll be happy to read this article, but I think you can just reach the source because there's a very precise definition. On this basis, duty cards are constructed. We agree and sign them, and the sender executes them. As for programming councils, it is not surprising that there are active politicians in them, Senator, because this is the construction of these advices, that at the moment 1/3, it seems that the members of the National Council no longer delegate members, so I do not know what the proportions are at the moment. The Sejm and the Senate are seconded, and so are the senators, and the Members are on the agenda boards. And whoever's elected president is already a matter of decision of the entire council. There are representatives of both non-governmental institutions and pure politicians. A normal legal mechanism is created. And many of your senators, many of you I have seen on the Polish Radio or Polish Television Programme Councils. I don't know. Well, that's not a crime.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u84	Thank you. Senator again? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u85	Thank you so much for pointing out where I can read what a public mission is. But what I was interested in was how a state without a duty card, which you don't have, valued a public mission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u86	We're based on the same article, Senator, art. 21 Radio and TV Act. Thank you very much. No response is also the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. Mr President, this public service is, as I understand it, information and publicity, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u88	Yes. It doesn't fill the whole thing, but the information and the publicist is definitely hers. Thank you... 14% the television budget is earmarked for this. For information and publicity? For information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u89	I have one more question for you. As the committee's meeting referred to this law and the previous ones, the incidental laws on the financing of television or the public media at all, to the analogy with the financing of the concession tickets, I have a question. Co-financing is measured by the number of households that have receivers, not by the number of households that have subscriptions. Is this the number of households with receivers It's, I guess, 93%. That's an estimate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u90	These are data from the Central Statistical Office, which is estimated, but it's a state institute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u91	I get it, but that's an estimate. I ask because as far as ticket subsidies are concerned, there are specific figures based not on statistics, but on previous years. I don't have any more questions for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u92	Mr. Marshal, these are data from the census, i.e. data from the Central Statistical Office, which keeps a census. How much respect is that, and how much measurement...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u93	Right. I do not want to enter into a discussion with you, but the number that is absolutely not an estimate is the number of recorded receivers, not the respect of how many of these receivers have households. That's the difference. There are no more questions... Would Senator Dorota Jazłowicka like to ask again? Because she volunteered. Danuta. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u94	Yeah, I'd like to fill in my question. Well, first of all, I'd like to stress that you haven't answered my question. You stressed that this amount was spent on a mission. The mission on public television is only 20%, what you do according to Polish and European standards. But I'd like to ask you a question about the programs you've launched. Telemagazine, Kasta... What is the cost of this program? Kasta, Kasta, Kasta, Kasta, Kasta, Kasta, Kasta, Yeah, Casta, I said Casta. What's the cost of this program? We are getting signals that TV workers are encouraged to look for topics with very high wages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u95	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u96	I can't answer that question. The level of funding reported in the public television obligation card is 2 billion 625 million 200 000 for 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u97	Okay, I'm the one with the following question. And I would ask you to answer in writing about the costs of this new scheme. Please inform whether the rates for journalists working on this programme are equivalent to those in other programmes, are higher, are they lower, or are there no such rates at all? In writing, I'd ask. May I? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u98	But I won't be able to answer that question to the marshal... Why? ...because we don't have that kind of data, we don't have any data on journalists' stakes, much less the journalists' incentive system. If this programme is included in the financial and programme plans, then of course I will provide answers, i.e. I will inform you what position is placed there and whether public funds are earmarked for this programme. That's the answer I can give.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u99	Good. Minister, I'm asking for an answer. If you won't be able to answer, please write to me: I'm not able to answer. There you go, Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u100	Mr President, referring to the public service mission, you said that this mission included, among other things, the following: information and publicity programmes. And how would you qualify the program that you were talking about, Marshal Borusewicz, the program "Kasta"? Is it in the category of information or publicity programmes and is it being carried out as a public mission?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u101	Thank you. I'm joining that question. If you won't be able to answer right now, I'll have it in writing. You're welcome. No, it's me... Yes? ...I'll answer in writing. At the moment, you're unable to answer. I don't see any more people asking. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a representative of the National Radio and Television Council has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Bogdan Borusewicz and Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. I didn't miss anyone? I understand there haven't been any such questions for the Minister. I therefore open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u102	It is usually the case that we are preparing a statement, and then, after listening to our guests, in this case the Minister and the Head of the National Radio and Television Council, we must refer to what we have heard, but how many times do we host you? And that's the next time we're talking about the same thing. This is quite similar: we do not know anything, we do not know each other, we do not know each other, we have no idea, we have no legal capacity to control public television. It follows that public television is completely out of control, no one controls it. And then I hear that my question... As I ask about the program, as we ask about the mission here, about all sorts of things, we hear from you that these are questions not at all about the fact that this does not apply at all to the bill. How, ladies and gentlemen, should this not apply to the law when we are talking about such a gigantic amount of PLN 2 billion? That's the amount that... For the first time, such a high amount is passed on to the television without any special reasons, without anything. I said here that the previous presidents were making really huge savings, they had to fire workers for economic reasons, so that the media would act as expected. Besides, the program was very good and there were no problems like this. Meanwhile, these 2 billion zlotys are now going to propaganda, to unreliable information, to what we would call... what people call party television, television of one option. And you say... gentlemen say you don't know anything, they don't answer questions like that, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, why have the state not so far drawn up a law which would have a social, public impact on the public television programme? The famous act of 2016... sorry, with... yes, well I say, with 2016... no, the law of 2015... the State has incapacitated the National Council... National? Well, I'm so wrong, but it's not a coincidence. You have incapacitated the National Council of Radio and Television, and you have created a Council of Public Media and therefore nobody has any influence on public media, no control over public media. Ladies and gentlemen, we simply do not know what these 2 billion zlotys will go for, we have no idea. And if the mission is programs such as the "Kasta" programme, if the mission is "Kasta" news that saves on people, on entire social groups, on doctors, on residents, on teachers, on self-governments, on city presidents... We remember what happened to President Adamowicz. We do not accuse the public media of directly contributing to this death. We accuse the public media of this hat, this hate that comes out of the public media, from the screens every day and goes to people... It's just that people soak in these people, people like the murderer of President Adamowicz. But I'm going back to that bill. Mr Ombudsperson at the debate yesterday recalled the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2016, according to which the exclusion of the National Council from influence on public media personnel is unconstitutional. We're dealing with an act of violation of the law. The sentence has still not been executed today and this is evidence of the passiveness of the authorities that led to such a fall. Because that was the title of one of the reports of the Institute of Bronisław Komorowski, i.e. In the title, the word "fall' is used. And that's the right word for the media for the so-called. It's a good change. Mr. Minister, who has now left because he thinks he doesn't have to answer or speak at all, in response to one of the senators' questions, he refused to judge television. He said he wouldn't do it, he thinks it's highly inappropriate, and that politicians, and especially members of the government, shouldn't deal with such assessments. I will be the one to quote the words of Minister Gliński, and my esteemed colleague Marcin Bosacki has already mentioned this. After his visit to television in 2016, the Minister was upset, because TV raised matters concerning his wife inappropriately, he accused the Polish Television of lack of professionalism, he thought that everyone there went crazy with these graphs showing links in NGOs. I'm sorry that after the political change I've worked for so many years, the minister said on TVP is such a madhouse. He described the journalist's questions as populist-propagandous, notabene was a journalist whose name I already mentioned today, and he carried out these messages in which Mr. Marshal Grodzki was repeatedly slandered. And he felt that as a sociologist who has been dealing with the third sector for 30 years, he had a greater mandate to judge NGOs than publicist Stanisław Janecki, and he came out extremely upset. After that, there was a big fuss about it, everyone explained themselves, and the Minister was criticized by his colleagues. And I will say that the Minister was there already in times of so-called. good-change television, and I will say: Minister Gliński, you were right, absolutely right Propaganda, manipulation. And to this day, it is. Firstly, I would like to say that ministers speak, that is, Mr Lewandowski was missing the truth, saying that they do not speak because politicians speak on this subject. I would like to say that Minister Gliński's words are completely valid until today. And I'm gonna say that that's when the voices started on quality... I don't know if you know this, but as far as President Kurski is concerned, it is not our new idea that we, as committee, have taken such a position that we want to call off the authorities responsible for what is happening on TVP. There's already been an idea like two or three years ago. I don't remember. And it was even supposed to be a proposal from the National Media Council, but President Kaczyński said that... Not anymore... Please? In fact, he had already been cancelled, he felt cancelled, but President Kaczyński said that Mr Kurski would remain in this position after consulting an independent source. Listen up, guys. You, we all know that President Kurski has been appointed by the decision of President Kaczyński and that there is at the moment no one in the country on the side of the rulers of such a person who would object to it. That's what we all know. We are dealing with a completely pathological situation in which who is the president of television, who is to stay and who is to leave, is decided by another president, party president. This is happening, ladies and gentlemen, not happening on any public television in the world, it's not happening anywhere. Russia. Russia and Belarus. In Russia and Belarus, that's right. It doesn't happen anywhere in Western countries, nowhere. And I would like to tell you that we have taken a step towards the East-style media, and we are still in on it today. I would like to accuse the Minister of Culture, the National Media Council, the National Council of Obstinacy, because the law should be amended, the media should be made public, i.e. Take them away from the power of one president, one party and make these media public. During the discussion we had at the meeting of the cultural committee, at some point I realized what would have happened if this television were normal, i.e. If there were such a situation that instead of raising hatred for doctors, judges, Jurek Owsiak, your resident Katarzyna Pikulska, public television would take care of good matters, it would take care of what the public media should do, i.e. means reconciliation of people, not sharing, or creating a situation in which Poles feel a national community, not that they are excluded from this community. Public television, which would give us great cultural programs, which would also teach people tolerance, which would show good practices, show NGOs, show how many local governments are doing in Poland, rather than being sensitive, attacking and actually leading to these huge ditches, giant divisions in society that we have right now. Public television as the only one outside politicians is co-responsible for having such divisions in Poland. And President Kurski, who acted the way he behaved yesterday, is only, and only at this moment, uncontrolled by no one... Senator, I'd ask for a recapitalisation, 'cause it's been ten minutes. ...nominating the president of Jarosław Kaczyński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Like us, we have no obligation and glory to God to watch public media. However, I have the impression that both the representative of the National Council of Radio and Television and the representative of the government should listen to the Senate debate on the bill that their political camp is presenting to the Senate. At the last sitting of the House, quoting the ancient senator, I asked how much longer you would abuse our patience. For what, as not the abuse of our citizens of the Republic, patience, is this incredible law, which we are dealing with today, unheard of in our greed and lack of decency. This is the country, the Republic wants to spend more money on propaganda than oncology programs. It's a disgrace. And it's a shame we have to deal with this in the Senate today. When I hope that soon we will call it the time that came in Poland after 2015 then, Mr. Marshal, the High Senate, will not be able to name it any other than sometimes looting. For the past years we have been robbed of our freedom, we have been robbed of the prestige of the Republic of Poland on the international stage, we have been robbed of the safe future of our children, but we have also been robbed of decency in public life, and in this looting public television played a huge role. And here she is to be rewarded with that extra money. After all, Poland in 2015 was not, as some, Poland in ruins, falsely claimed. For if it were Polish in ruins, there would not be enough 100 million for aristocrats who by the decision of the government of Beata Szydło received this money and transported it immediately abroad; it would not be enough for a certain profitable and greedy monk from Toruń; it would not be enough for a reward for government ministers who granted it to themselves. All this was enough money because Poland before the time of looting was a well-managed and prosperous country. It's different today. Today, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, TV and public media not only do they not fulfil their role as an impartial observer of public life, but they have become a place of special division of Poles, a special sting of one citizen to another, and they have finally become a plane of sowing lies and contempt. This is not the way to build a good Republic, therefore, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I hope that the Senate of the Republic of Poland will reject this incredibly impertinent act in its covetousness, which is to reward the troubadour time looting additional 2 billion PLN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u106	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, Thank you so much for letting me take part in this debate. I am a young senator, first of all Polish and Polish doctor, so I decided to speak right now. There is no doubt that it is public television, probably not public television. Government and party, she woke up demons in people. These demons caused the Polish-Polish war in families, our homes, workplaces. And that's basically humiliating for me as a young senator. Well, I absolutely do not have my consent to this bill, because the amount that could be paid is as Mr. Vice-Marshal Kaminski said. To be dedicated to health programmes, to oncology, to cardiology, to prevention that is lacking in our country, as the Minister said, public aid, which does not violate market rules, finances only a public mission. Not public party, government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor for me to be here with you for the recent election to the Upper House. And this situation moves me, as a doctor, as a young politician, to think about it, because it was the government media that spread in public a lot of content defaming political activists, great people, educated people, including our marshal, professor of medicine Tomasz Grodzki. It is worth noting, however, that these accusations appeared only when he became a marshal, when he achieved incredible success as one of the most important people in our country. I'm not talking about the property benefits that have been discussed, because it goes a little beyond the medical environment, and it's some kind of sign of the time that has passed. This situation really makes me think, it is disturbing and difficult, because we live in times where everyone can say everything and publish it in social media, public media. Thanks to the Internet and the media, the information is spreading at lightning speed and is doing a lot of damage. Reputation and reputation are built for years, especially among doctors, activists, our name is our brand. It can be corrupted by one word, one moment of slandering a name, a rumor that really puts people with great merits in their name. That kind of rumor is also in the name of our marshal. I will not talk about the merits of the marshal here, because of course you can read about them, we have emphasized this many times, but I would like to say that he was awarded the Cross of Merit, the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. It is someone who is a role model for many young doctors, for many young people. He's being challenged by his authority. Not only as a prominent specialist, a professor of medicine, but also as a human being, he agrees to trust doctors. It is worth asking ourselves why we are only talking about this now. Right now, because Professor Grodzki is a Marshal of the Senate because he was successful, as I said. His experience and knowledge are needed in Poland, and health care has huge challenges to face. And I think that in the Health Committee, which I have the honour to sit on, Marshal Grodzki, as an outstanding specialist, will help us. The medical community has been fighting for its good name for years. I myself was a supporter of the 2006 social campaign when everyone was talking about taking bribes, getting places. Don't give it to me. I'm not taking it. I would like to remind you that both the doctor and the party giving these alleged bribes is committing a crime, not just the one who is probably taking it. I strongly oppose the insulting of the good name of our marshal, as well as other prominent figures in the world of politics. He's trying to depreciate a person who's become a symbol of an open and law-abiding Senate. There can't be an agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u107	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u108	Because of the state of health, Mr. Marshal. I'm already getting ready to make a speech, please don't count the time... sore throat. Please, Mr. Senator. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister, I'm addressing the Minister of Finance. If you meet me there in the hallway, I'm asking you to hand over... We very much value the Minister, who is always at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, accepting criticism from the beginning to the end. Whether these comments are taken into account or not, this is another matter, but presence is an expression of respect. And that's why to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, who are in the courtroom, listen... I know that in life it's always the truth in the eyes of a circle. It's such old wisdom. The truth in the eyes of the circle. I don't like the way my wife draws my attention and tells me about my shortcomings. It upsets me, and I want to leave, too, but I stay and listen humbly. And that's why thank you that the four brave Senators of Law and Justice are... And you're Professor Hare? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Three. Professor Hare belongs to the United Right, Mr. Senator, and this is I apologize for the same political group not to use any epithet. But ad rem, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday there were seven hours of discussion, even sharper, lots of great examples. Someone who didn't watch... I encourage you, in particular, to take a look at this debate at the cultural committee meeting yesterday and look at what was shown yesterday... The day before yesterday, the day before yesterday. ...or the day before yesterday... Mr. Senator, please calm down. Thanks a lot to Senator Zdrojewska... These people, people of science, those who are watching the media, clearly indicated that this has nothing to do with public television. It's slandering, stinging, etc. If there was an ex-worker on that TV... I know there's gonna be a comment coming up: he got fired, so... You fired a few thousand people and these people are talking today. And what does the employee say? We were hired to follow Adamowicz's day and ask him questions. And those questions were asked all the time. 2,000 of them... It's not news, it's slander, it's calumnia, it's because it's asleep. Adamowicz had a different opinion, another idea for Poland. Is this public television? At a committee meeting, a professor from the University of Warsaw said that in Germany, public television respected 80% Those who watch her, they say that this is television that contains news, brings values. In Poland, it's 40%. or below. So those who vote for the PiS say, yes, we want to hear it, the government is okay, the opposition is just anybody. It's hitting on that TV, it was shown yesterday. If there is to be shown any material with an opposition representative, it is only in a negative light. Those are the recommendations on TV. That's what the people who worked there say, and they've been in contact with it. These are not senators of the Civic Platform. We were listening yesterday... I'm sorry, I listened with great amazement. Well, if anyone has a little bit of... I don't want to say that intelligence, just that kind of... Or are these people telling the truth? I mean, like one would say, like... Senator Zdrojewska or I, that's okay, but that's what people who monitor the media said. We asked the Minister, the Chairman of the National Council... No, we don't want politics, we don't get involved... And today I have learned that the President of the National Council is an outstanding policy of law and justice. Well, that's independence. Ladies and gentlemen, what else did the Minister and Head of the National Council say the other day? Shortcuts, 'cause there's not much time. They said this: on other televisions they criticize the government. Well, if someone else is criticized by the government, where is the government to be praised? On government television, of course. And now the most interesting part. The Minister said this: you know, we have done research and we know that the voters of the PiS watching TV are also being attacked, but it must be said from the surveys that they are more open to criticism than those who refer to themselves as viewers and who have oppositional views. If you listen to this, you see one thing: give me 2 billion, don't pick on it, we know how to do really good propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting, I read... In 2015, when this wonderful project of public media was created, such cool ones, carrying a lot of ideas about good, modern Poland, representatives of the PIS said... When the National Media Council was established, they said this: public media are meant to positively describe the government's activities. That's when you could see it. We asked about the mission. I want to tell you what the head of one of the countries east of us who is called Vladimir Putin said. I will read this to you: television is a media division of government funded by the government, the purpose of this television is to show the achievements of the government. Come on, let's do the TVP PiS. Where do you guys get such cool messages? I know you're anti-Russian, anti-putinist, but it's not about declarations, it's about what's in your heart and in your head. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 I spoke from this stand about how wonderful Polish television brings the message of unity and reconciliation. Before I mention it, I'll just remind you that the same professor from the University of Warsaw said that television, whose representative... editor working at the BBC... Television follows the following principles: it exercises social, civic control, warns and watches over values, and the main direction of control is power and government. Well, it's the other way around. With us, the government is the best. In the morning someone got up and said I'd build ferries. And the ferry's already swimming. Well, he said it, and the ferry's on its way. Wait, wait, on the way over, I figured I'd be making electric cars. And on the way from Warsaw to Szczecin he started electric cars. In addition, he came up with a great idea during his existence in Szczecin and talked about drones. And then the next one got up and said, "We're going to build apartments." And you're showing it all as wonderful accomplishments. I want to tell you... There's only one minute left. I'm not gonna make it. I asked Mrs. Agnieszka to reprimand me. I'm just gonna say one more thing. This concerns the Senate, ladies and gentlemen. It's about the Senate belt under dictation abroad. Today's market. There's a question mark at the end. And you know what? I was not present at this part of the meeting. How did Mr. Kurski explain it? What do you mean? It's not a statement, it's a question mark. Yes. Well, that's obvious. It wasn't like the editor said the Senate was some foreign servant. He doubted and asked if it was a modern marketplace. Let me give you an example. I wish I'd been to that part of the meeting. Mr. Kursk needs to be asked... Maybe not Mr. Kursk, because he's not here. That's the kind of question: is it true that you, Senator Blackbay, stopped beating your wife? That's the kind of question you ask. That's what you do to people. You act by sharing, sneaking, sharing, and praising those who do it best. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like it's a single case. I've been wondering how to end this, and I'm going to say this: starting with independent prosecutors, courts, all of this, all of this surroundings, this wonderful idea of one country where one power knows everything and gives us life... Here comes an important element of propaganda, to which two billion must be given. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, an increase of 100% compared to the previous 3 years. Do you know where the same height is? We'll talk about the budget. KPRM, Prime Minister's office. There's 272%. And on TV. 100% . Two pillars of state building. And finally, I want to read... Because this whole machine thing... This is, ladies and gentlemen, I'm an engineer. The technological sequence, from the idea to the realization. And it's all about propaganda. And I want my fellow countrymen and, of course, the Senators of Law and Justice to quote Ignacy Krasicki's poem. What are you crying about? The old man was told by a young man with a question mark. You now have a better cage than in the comfort field. You got 500+, free meds, why are you crying? You got everything you wanted. You were born in it, said the old man. So I will forgive thee; / I was free today in a cage And that's why I'm crying. Ignacy Krasicki, nice, nice a few years ago. But, as historians say, the story goes on in circles. And we're back in that cage, not wanting to, jumped in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u109	Thank you, Senator, for your poetry and matrimony references. And I invite you to speak to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! This is, of course, not just about the bill. And that's understandable, because the state of public television and what public television is doing must have caused such a discussion. There's no more public television, ladies and gentlemen. There's not even government television. This is TV. Jack Kurski. He makes all the decisions. And you can see that. These sessions of hatred and attacks on particular environments or individuals It doesn't come from anything. They are the answer to the problems that PiS has with governance, with resistance to certain environments. Lately... At the moment, there is a concentrated attack on judges in Poland, which undermines their authority to perform judges' duties. But not only for the whole environment, but also for individuals, for those who are active in the Iustitia, for those who wish to execute the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the legality of sitting in courts. This is the situation we have been seeing since around 2015. But in order to create a situation like this, you had to slow down. Or make them go away. Approximately 300 public television journalists. It's a massacre. I will say that now I am happy to watch Television Republic and Television Trwam, because all the best forces of these 2 commercial stations have gone to public television. That's why there's nothing left to see. And that's all I... That message that was on those TVs has been moved. But not because it's just people, but because the head of television is pursuing political party politics or prejudices. Because the attacks also apply to some politicians on the part of the rulers. But above all, they're targeted at judges, they've been targeted at young doctors before, and they're also... well, they were and they're this kind of... There are anti-government tendencies: the local government doesn't want to pay 500+, the local government doesn't want anything else, the local government already has too much money and demands even more, the local government is crushing Poland... Pomerania was a special place of attack. Gdansk. After all, talking about the fact that in Gdansk... that we want to tear this region from Poland, show Donald Tusk and at the same time dozens of portraits of Adolf Hitler... It didn't seem to fit in my head. Normal meanness. It's just... This has to make... we're the subject of processing, some of us are the subject of processing. And he has to protest. But even if this attack did not go against the opposition, as honest people, we should protest and say no, we will not accept it. Before the murder, Paul Adamowicz was subjected to public television. A wave of hatred in 2 installments: a thousand information on public television and 800 information... That's the shame. All negative. All negative. And after death there is not even a word of apology. Yes. And Mr. Jacek Kurski was tearing crocodiles yesterday, saying, "He was my friend." He asked how we could accuse television of having something in common... Yeah, yeah. ...with this murder. TV didn't give you a knife, but it created an atmosphere where a normal person, who would only watch TVP, would go crazy. What if somebody had some kind of deviation? Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the committee meeting, I showed Mr. Jack Kursk a belt that recently... Yes. ...appeared on information about the meeting of senators of the Republic of Poland with representatives of the judiciary of the European Union, judges from the European Union. What does this belt look like? Let me see what this belt looks like. Senate under dictation abroad Today's market. And a question mark. And Mr. Jacek Kurski said to me that I'm lying, that there was a question mark... Yeah, yeah. ...that it wasn't a modern market. So I repeat: and if there were such a belt with the inscription "Jacek Kurski" The co-responsible for the murder of Paul Adamowicz, with a question mark, would he accept it? Would that have met with his acceptance? Ladies and gentlemen, there was one thing that was positive in this discussion yesterday at the committee meeting. Three or four times on public television was shown this committee meeting, our speeches, of course, not all of them, not the one I quoted... Question mark. ...but there was some information. It shows, by the way, other information that reaches... And yesterday there were 2 expelled journalists who had already worked there for the PiS and were expelled in 2017. They were talking about mechanisms. This television is controlled by one man Jacek Kurski. And he's responsible for that. Even if he's following some other man's orders, he's responsible. And now I'm going back to this bill. Four million... no, not a million... A billion. We're going to spend the fourth billion on this TV. Why nearly PLN 2 billion at the moment? Well, there's a presidential campaign coming up, and this television must have money to support and organize the President's events that run with the PiS. The analysis that we have and which our Legislative Office has done shows clearly that this law can be alleged to be a law introducing illegal public aid from the point of view of the European Union. He talks about it very carefully, but he says, an official appointed by the PiS, because the current President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Our Legislative Office is already speaking clearly, unambiguously: yes, this law can be challenged as illegal public aid. And I think it's gonna happen, I think it's gonna happen. In this situation, if this law is classified as illegal public aid, Jack Kurski's television will have to return PLN 4 billion and this will, of course, be its financial end. Maybe he'll fall. But the financial end that will end the moral end of this television. Because what happens on public television is unacceptable. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm speaking because I have a mission too: a health mission. I think that for Poles and Poles, it is a much more important value for society than the mission of such populist television. 2 billion PLN is a huge amount of money that can be spent on health, to improve our health. What's the situation right now? The government is making savings on health. It's not just a question of queues, no availability. These are real cuts. PLN 1.5 billion dedicated to chemotherapy for 2020 is cut by 0.5 billion. More and more tasks go to the National Health Fund. An example is the proposal to stop financing medicines for seniors 75+ from the budget, which is also intended to enter the budget of the National Health Fund. And at what cost? Namely, we will reduce the number of health benefits financed by this fund. Is this the policy that is most important to us, to society, if the government is cutting this money? I don't think so. So if the government decides to release a $2 billion bond, I have a proposition: let's give this money to health. There they will be used, there society will have a real benefit. It is very important that money is spent efficiently. Very often I hear this phrase: it's public money, so let's make sure it's effective. I have a question: will this money spent in the amount of PLN 2 billion for missionary work in Polish Television bring efficiency? Will they improve health education at least at one time? Are there plans? No, we don't hear about that. All we hear about is populist TV shows. Anyway, I'm not gonna give an exact opinion on this program because I think we all know how to balance it out. It's not just, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of chemotherapy, because it's a health problem at all. I will calculate a few examples: the national oncology program is funded only in part, fragmentedly, the National Healthy Heart Programme has been waiting for funding for several years. We hear constantly: no funding. With geriatrics, care for the elderly, it's the same. It's a banner password. It's still short of money. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's think about what's more important to society. Is spending this money on public television really the most important factor for society? Not in my opinion. I will defend missionaryness, but missionary health, because society on every occasion raises that health security is the most important mission for this society, the most important value. And let's all take care of that. I would like to state that in the course of the budgetary procedures, with the Budget Act, we will also make various kinds of solutions and projects, including a number of amendments. I hope that you will also support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. I'm an entrepreneur, so I often deal with budgets, with money. At the moment we are asked to allocate PLN 2 billion to public television, television, which unfortunately nowadays is in many aspects a propaganda tube. But 2 billion zlotys... how much money is it? Because it's so easy to say it's 2 billion, and people can't imagine it. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 billion zlotys on TV is 5.5 million a day. Can you imagine? This is PLN 5.5 million a day for television, for propaganda on television, among others. for propaganda. Do you know how much it is per hour? For an hour, that's PLN 228,000. That's what they spend, that's what they want from us except what's on the subscription. 228 thousand zlotys per hour. He's letting more through, and he's gonna let more through. For me, these are things that are unimaginable and illogical in a normal company, in a normal economic reality. Television should, as far as possible, remain on its own. Television may have advertisers, but I'm not surprised that no one wants to do commercials in it, since we have a show of hate and the kind of stripes you're talking about, for example, a marshal. In the end, maybe I'll offer my belt to Mr. Kurski, but that's in a minute. I know you'll be here from the ministry. The government was defending itself as a public mission. But what's the mission? This should be an educational mission, a mission to build awareness in society, a mission to support good, wise things among Poles and in Poland. And I feel like this is a whole other mission. I don't feel like a politician. I'm in politics, but I feel more like a man of business than a man of politics. When I had a little more to do with politics a few years ago, people involved in politics asked me if I knew what the saying was about the voter. I said, "I don't know." Come on, I'm learning. They said, "If you think your voter is stupid, you're wrong." I said, "Well, that's good. It takes the voters to be smart. No, no, wait, there's the second part of that saying. Your voter is very stupid. That's the truth. I have the impression that our TV led by Kurski is trying to carry out this mission, trying to fool our voters, trying to fool Poles, because stupid voters are easier to manage. But that's not the point. If we're gonna be a strong, smart country, we can't have stupid citizens and we can't fool them with public television for 228 grand an hour. Speaking of stripes for Mr. Kurski. I'm offering a belt like this... I don't know, maybe I'll put it on my Facebook page and see if Mr. Kurski's gonna be upset or say it's an acceptable form. If he's talking about us, we're the new marketplace. And it's with a question mark. I'll also put in the question mark belt: Jacek Kurski A cynical propagandaist, a political mutt? Question mark. Let Mr. Jacek refer to whether it's okay or not. Thank you. [[Applause]] I think it's pretty good. Almost makes a difference. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u115	There you go, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I must say that today's debate is a debate full of surprises, and sad surprises. Recently, the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council told us: I do not have a bill on me, but I would like to quote, if I remember correctly, art. 21, where the definition of mission is formulated. I must admit, it was a surprise, because the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council should know by heart the definition of the mission. He answered questions about whether television is fulfilling the mission, how costly this mission is, how much resources will be devoted to the mission, and how much. for entertainment programs. Looking at this article, remembering it in part, I must admit that I am not surprised to the President that he forgot this most important part of the bill. I'm just going to quote two parts here. The public mission is in point 1 of order to build an offer for the whole society, for all parts of it, should guarantee impartiality and balanced transmission. No wonder the chairman forgot about it. Point 2 states that programmes within a public mission should be guided by responsibility for the word, should show events and promote social inclusion fairly. What does public television do? We know very well: divides society, uses the language of hatred, suggests on the stripes an absolutely unjustified responsibility of many people in many, many cases, justifying themselves with a question mark at the end. I want to make it clear that public television does not carry out the mission and that the President, who is to be responsible for this, does not know this provision, which he refers to in a general way. Where's the public mission? We can ask TV heads, journalists, where this public mission is on TV, where there is care of language, about political culture, about style, about responsibility. As I watch and compare programs, it is more this mission, which is the language of responsibility, kindness, that I see in the Contact Glass than in TV news. And probably over 50% of the senators in this room would say the same thing. So let's give these 2 billion to the Contact Glass. Where's the truth about GetBack, about the abuse on TVP Info or the black on the White? Let's see where this mission is right now. We are to allocate PLN 2 billion to broadcasts with which reality is completely missing, I stress this clearly, because that is what the fight is about when it comes to financial resources. Notification. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz quoted two important parts of the legislative opinion and an important office. I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform at one time amended the media law. It was vetoed by the president. The veto was not rejected. At that time there was an attempt to change, among others. The subscription bill. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that it was not that simple because it required notification. The subscription law cannot be amended because Poland, when entering the European Union, entered with specific legislative baggage, with a certain legal status. Public television currently has the money from the subscription, it has the funds obtained on the free market from advertising on the same terms as public media and receives compensation for lost revenue for 3 reasons: omissions, own allowances granted on request, but not only. I did not accidentally provoke Minister Lewandowski, speaking of these invalids, those poor pensioners. What did he say? It was similar to that of the Minister of Herbs on that speaker. He said and it's worth noting That all these calculated losses of public television are not the result of decisions or facts taken, but of potential. This is not the relief that the National Council of Radio and Television has given or which the National Council of other institutions has not recovered, but it is all that they have calculated that they should have now, yesterday and tomorrow. Well, I would like to say right away that this unfortunately requires notification, that is absolutely unacceptable in the procedure. And this threatens us, as a Polish country, probably after 3 and 5 years, but sooner or later someone will stick to it. There was a reply that these public measures did not interfere with the economic market. What do you mean? After all, in addition to this mission, public television carries out sports broadcasts with a huge number of advertisements, it acquires rights to specific transmissions on the open market. Of course, it has more resources released, so it competes with other stations in an unauthorized manner, in violation of the principles of equality of activity in the market for the acquisition of certain material or a specific content. Another thing that matters to me, too. There has been a charge that it is a parliamentary project, a legitimate charge, because it is not an anniversary resolution, it is not a legislative change resulting from the observation of a Member or a Senator or from professional experience. This is an initiative that required a very precise assessment of the losses incurred by television. As this has been done, I am putting aside, but someone has prepared this bill and it was certainly not a private Member. Such interference shall bear the marks of unauthorised interference or of an unauthorised initiative for one simple reason This is to replace the government and replace the procedures that the government is in place. One more important thing, at the end. The French have a metro pattern under Paris, in Sèvres. I'll say it again. The French have a metro pattern, address: Sèvres. We have a pattern of cynicism, address: Voronicza. [[Applause]] And I have to say that when I listen to the answer to the question whether television is carrying out the mission or whether the news is accurate Answers like, yes, it's true; yes, it's impartial; it's not a language of hatred; yes, the information is true. I don't believe it. I must say that I do not believe the level of cynicism, hypocrisy, arrogance and disregard of the wisdom of Poles. One by one, slowly, but everyone will understand what the public television does to the minds of young Poles above all, but also what divisions among Poles are perpetuating. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u117	Thank you very much. I'd like the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u118	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! In our culture there are many definitions of impudence, including anecdotes. In my opinion, from now on it will be possible to say that the definition of the summit of impudence is to appeal to the Parliament of the Brightest Republic of Poland for PLN 2 billion on television supposedly public, to fulfil its supposedly public mission, because it is all actually lying. It's not about public television. It has long ceased to be public; it is not even public. She is a party television, managed by a long-standing, prominent activist of the ruling party, Law and Justice, and supervised by the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, who is now a councillor for the Seym of this party. So he was running for the Seym of Law and Justice as chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. Public media have been failing to fulfil a public mission of impartiality and reliable information for more than four years, but they are carrying out transfers established by the party board of the party's headship in Nowogrodzka. They execute political orders, including personnel orders for attacking enemies of the ruling party. And let's not fool ourselves, this is not about any 2 billion PLN per... These 2 billion is another tranche of racket, which all Poles and all Poles have been paying for over 4 years for propaganda of the ruling party. That's over four billion 200 million so far, except for the subscription. What does the ruling party, Law and Justice, ask Poles and Poles, ask citizens of the Republic of Poland, ask taxpayers for another 2 billion PLN? A total lack of objectivity and pluralism. There are studies about this at the committee meeting about how it changed, for example. Percentage of invited guests on public television between 2014 and 2018 In 2018 TVP 1 and TVP 2 were invited in almost 80% of the air time of guests from the ruling party, from Law and Justice, i.e. Law and Justice among invited guests had four times more time than the rest of the political world. 4 years earlier, in the last year of normal public media, these proportions were completely different on average twice as small for the then governing party, i.e. the Civic Platform, and for example. In TVP 2 Law and Justice appeared then, i.e. in 2014, more frequently than the Civic Platform. What else would PLN 2 billion go to which Law and Justice are now asking citizens and taxpayers? To produce hate strips and entire hate campaigns. And it's not just about what has been said many times, that is, comparing the Senate of the Brightest Republic to the marketplace. These are vilifying campaigns, not just stripes. All social groups, social groups that dare to oppose the Law and Justice in any way. What was the name of the teachers during their protest? It was written that their morality was compromised. What was the name of the resident doctors? Quote: Beginner doctors demand billions of gold and make embarrassing provocations. What's the name of the jury? We know it's a caste. Again, the quote: The Supreme Court destroys the Polish state. The opposition was again written about: Polish opposition against Poland. Well, it's kind of anecdoted, albeit a tragic news strip. The Polish Language Council stated that 75% These stripes are mainly presented with emotions, including very often manipulations. And she concluded: the vision of the world in TVP stripes is extremely one-sided. This vision is attacked not only by Polish entities, but also by whole countries and foreign entities. They are included on a button and turned off when needed, campaigns against the European Union, Germany, France, Israel and other countries. The worst is, however, organized campaigns of hatred for individuals. We all remember Paweł Adamowicz, the murdered great Pole, President of Gdańsk. In the previous year, before his death, more than 200 times on TVP were presented pavilions, defaming him with materials. But such campaigns, sometimes shorter but also lasting many weeks, were directed against Donald Tusk, Grzegorz Schetyna, Rafał Trzaskowski... Oatmeal. Oatmeal. That's what I'm trying to say. So not only against politicians, but also against those who in any way threaten the monopoly of the ruling party, e.g. Jerzy Owsiak or the chairman of the teachers' union, Mr. Weapons. Two of those sitting in this room were, and one is still the subject of such a campaign of hatred. Last summer it was Senator Krzysztof Brejza and his family when he became head of the election campaign of the Civic Coalition, and since the day of his election he has been the marshal of our House, Thomas Grodzki. During the first 60 days of this campaign, the news TVP realized 50 materials about Tomasz Grodzki Only slanderers. Insolent Mission of Party Media "Let's not call them public, " therefore, is today the sowing of hatred and the making of a campaign against social groups and individuals. That is why I am absolutely sure that the High House will reject this extremely insolent request for another 2 billion PLN for this type of action. But, moreover, I hope that all of us, as soon as possible, will end the fate of this party's hate television, and that the guilty of this sting will be an eternal disgrace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, let me just say this briefly, because a lot of opinions have already come out here. I'll start with a declaration: yes, I go to Jack Kurski's TV. I go to Jack Kurski's TV because I think that even in the most extremely adverse conditions in which a man appears, there's a chance in the live show that, so to speak, to those who watch this TV. And these are not just supporters of the PIS, they pass on their views on political realities and events in Poland. And many times after these performances I had such feedback that, so to speak, opposition supporters congratulated me for trying to fight there. It's very nice and that's why I go there. I believe that accepting all calls to the media is also one of the responsibilities of a parliamentarian. But I was wondering what's the softest word I could use to describe Jack Kurski's TV. I don't like to use strong words, so I thought that the softest thing that comes to mind is that Jack Kurski's TV is extremely pro-government television. I also said this on live shows, on which I was given to perform on this television. And here are three elements. The first element is as follows. Because the Law and Justice everywhere, to the right and to the left, says, "What do you want? Why are you talking about reducing democracy in Poland? There's been a free election. After all, the sovereign decided who was to rule. Of course, the elections took place, but there is also a question of the conditions under which these elections take place. Are we not in such a situation that public television is actually in the election campaign another player on the side of Law and Justice? I think it's from the election elections. And what we're doing right now and what we're debating is kind of another step to strengthen this extra player on the side of the PiS We can already wonder and speculate whether really an important element of free elections, i.e. relatively equal access to the media, is being implemented. Well, in my opinion, every year, this doubt is growing and the question is whether someone will eventually draw this conclusion, even if they support all the calculations and expertise that Senator Bosacki spoke of. But I want to say yes. We were even wondering, as near the Polish People's Party, whether to make an amendment which would leave Jack Kurski's TV 1 million PLN, and all the rest of this amount, which would be co-financed, was passed on to oncology programs. I consulted with a legal counsel on this matter and received this resolution from the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2015. In §4 of this resolution, which I would like to quote, we read: "Programme That's the oncological one. It is financed by the State budget. The planned expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of the actions foreseen under the programme may not exceed PLN 250 million per year. And the legislator said that, in connection with this resolution, it is impossible to make such an amendment as we wanted to make. I am in this regard those who have prepared this bill, and those who believe that if we vote against it, we will do wrong, I ask: do you really think that everything is okay in that we cannot spend more than 250 million PLN each financial year on the oncology programme, as the government said, but can we give Jack Kurski 2 billion PLN? Don't you see the impropriety of this situation? Because I see her and, frankly, I am surprised that the government has taken this resolution in a situation in which it plans to finance Jack Kurski's TV at such a rate. After all, it stings in the eyes, as you read this resolution of the Council of Ministers! And finally, finally, the last... Well, obviously because we're not able to make an amendment to take this money away from Jack Kursk and give it to the oncology program, we're going to vote against the bill. It's obvious. And now, finally, referring to a passage from the Senator, Minister Zdrojewski... Because Mr. Senator, Minister Zdrojewski said this: eventually, there will be someone who will draw you out that this is illegal public aid. We do not have to wait for this, we do not have to wait for it, because this type of activity is already being conducted by the Association of the Election Observatory with Mr Marcin Skubiszewski. And they informed me that together with the Belgian law firm, which is specialized in writing proposals on whether or not there is anything, whether it is illegal public aid, they are preparing such a proposal. In the opinion of this firm, this proposal has every chance that the European Commission will consider what is being done here to be illegal public aid. And I don't think we're gonna have to wait a year, two, three or five years, but it's gonna happen, so to speak, relatively quickly. I think that on the one hand it will be a positive, because Jack Kurski's television will cease to exist, on the other hand it will also be a negative, because it will mean that in Poland there will be no more something to return to as a public television But it's okay, that's the consequences. I will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. I hope this isn't the influence of the public television you're in, and it's to be attributed to the fact that you called me a marshal. Oh, I'm sorry! [[Joy in the Chamber]] When I was standing there, all the time. I saw your marshal. It doesn't change the fact... We've known each other so long, I suppose you have no doubt about my sexual identity. No, Mr. Marshal, absolutely not! And now you will be speaking for Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! This country doesn't have the resources for health care. Queues to doctors every day are increasing, 6 years ago you had to wait about 60 days, now twice as long to visit a specialist. The drugs are getting expensive. Young doctors earn pennies, and when they're still in college, they recruit to go abroad to earn a decent living there. There's also a shortage of nurses. The average age of a nurse is 52 years. And the state, the government, in a situation where all of this requires urgent solutions and significant funding, is engaged in television, which in the public opinion has gained the name of TV PiS, is significant, isn't it? And he wants to allocate PLN 2 billion to it, as much as PLN 2 billion to television, which is nothing but the propaganda tube of the government! He wants to spend this enormous amount on television, which has long since been public television. The government doesn't have the resources for things like health care, but it does have the money for television, television full of propaganda made for public money, for the money of our countrymen, for our citizens, for our money. This amount could cover the annual debt of all hospitals in Poland But the priority of this government is not people, they are not citizens, they are not patients. After all, you could use this money for medicines for seniors, you could use this money for oncology programs, you could also use them for a child psychiatrist, for which there is no money, which is why tragedies happen. What about pensioners whose several hundred thousand lives for less than 1 thousand zlotys a month? What about the judicial staff who are doing a lot of work to make these courts function as such, but they are getting worse and worse, among other things. Because there's no one to work in their offices, their secretariats? What about people with disabilities? What about their guardians? Why doesn't the government take care of all these major issues and think about how to finance these needs, but it wants to allocate PLN 2 billion to television, television that doesn't perform a public mission, as it is trying to convince us, because the mission of public radio and television is quite different than what this television is doing today? Public television and radio carry out a public mission, offering the whole community Different programmes and other services characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance, independence, innovation, high quality and integrity of the transmission. And what's the feature of this TV? The fact that the governing camp has more air time, that the voice of the democratic opposition is limited. Do you remember how it was during the election campaign? How much air time did the PiS have and how much opposition did it have? But what's to be surprised if the president of TVP is a former Member of the PiS. Is it a public mission that television slanders the Senate, in which by the will of the voters of power does not hold the PiS, that attacks the Marshal of the Senate, that slanders the Ombudsman, that slanders the LGBT community, that divides society? And all this is tolerated by Minister Gliński, notabene Minister of Culture. For what? And for what will these funds be used? To continue to create a policy of lies, slanders, public sharing, a campaign against judges and justice, because that's what you do on television. The independence of the courts and the independence of the judges shall be attacked. Or maybe for Andrzej Duda's campaign, because PiS is very afraid of losing this election. And that's what I'm saying with all my responsibility. It destroys the authority of the state, is harmful and poses a threat to democracy. And that's why this bill should be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u123	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Senate! [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Now, your marshal... But there was a marshal sitting when I started. I'm sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No one's reported a change. Hokus-pocus... The Act on amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Charges is simply compensation for public television and Polish Radio in the amount of PLN 2 billion. We are to give 2 billion PLN only because this television has lost not only trust but also influence, although in the world every public television makes money. But why make money when there's a team of people who made sure they didn't have to make money? As an entrepreneur, I can't accept it. How can you not make money and get money for it? I'm not surprised that the entrepreneur, Senator Bury, has calculated these huge amounts. Well, to earn 276 grand a day... For an hour. ...you need to have some sense in your head. I've worked my whole life as an entrepreneur and I know how hard it's been. You know, it's been a long time since... I'm not ashamed to talk about it, a year was closing at zero, but I was glad that people weren't getting fired. That was the money. And here 2 billion to transfer... Then why do we need Kurski's genius, anyone, even a bum, can go there, be president, because if they give him money, he sits behind a desk, has money, and he's president. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where you should lean down and think about 2 things. I don't want to talk too much about the public television mission, my previous speakers have already crushed this bill, and I'm not gonna kill a man who's lying down, although with his hand out. Two billion. To be honest, let's face it, the CUS is ruthless, and as an entrepreneur, I like to support myself with numbers so that it doesn't happen all the time. Well, 96.4% households have television sets, but around half of Polish households have not registered any television or radio receiver. Among those who registered the receiver, the majority are exempt persons. Real fees are paid by around 13% society. This is a clear signal. And that's what I'm addressing to Mr. Kurski. That Poles do not want to finance such public television, one of the main missions of which is slandering people, and lately especially attacking the opposition. A team of people have been gathered who... He's been living up to the fact that he can beat up a Member or a Senator of the opposition all morning. Well, see: is it a public mission to insult and present in the negative light of the righteous man, the marshal, Professor Tomasz Grodzki? The country is proud of such a professor, Europe says that in the Polish country there are one of the few wonderful professors, who was one of the first to do lung transplants, known by professors in the United States. We hate people with authority, we have to have such a magma... Whoever leans forward, we hit them right in the head because we have to be equal. Speak for yourself. I'm telling you the truth. Or, Senator, or public service... Is comparing Greta Thunberg to Hitler and Stalin... or is this comparison worth 2 billion PLN in the 21st century? It should also be noted that additional money is to be used, as I would remind you, for additional posts, further jobs, because this is one of the changes that extends the boards of companies. The main point is that there should be no 3 or 4 CEOs or Vice-Presidents on the boards of companies, only more. We, in the face of such a financial organization, can draw great money. If we get 2 billion, we know what to do with them. I remind you, 276,000 a day. In addition, the Act raises reservations. Should not the draft law be subject to the formal obligation to notify this aid to the European Commission due to the new source of revenue of public broadcasters? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski has developed it well. No one pays attention to this, but this is a very important remark, because it cannot be excluded, therefore, that the law is flawed by the failure to notify the European Commission. Thus, the aid granted under this law may result in certain consequences resulting from failure to comply in due time with procedures relating to the need to notify the proposal to the European Commission. Senator Zdrojewski explained that very well. The Act is to enter into force on the day following the date of its publication, but the justification for the project lacks a detailed explanation of why there are no reasons. And in conclusion, for the last five years... No, I've always helped the poor and the sick, especially the children. I've been doing a lot of fundraisers. I've seen mothers cry. Sometimes an only child who was four had to die because he had to be driven abroad, and there was no money for him. We didn't always manage to raise money. I didn't sleep much last night. To all those people who are so easy to spend these 2 billions... I've been to a couple of oncology kids. Come and see what's in there, talk to the doctors who are desperately disassembling their hands. We don't have any money, they say. Lately, I fought because people of the third century begged me and begged me, Senator, we can't even have a geriatric clinic. I've been fighting for this clinic for seven months. Seven months! And I broke the principal, and he finally said, "I'm gonna give you the money for peace." You know how many clinics this little geriatric clinic... How much money was needed there for a year? Less than Mr. Kurski gets on TV a day. This is the answer to the sensitivity of those who reach for the money with their hands. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying this: you really need to break your conscience to vote for this law. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u125	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In my question, I couldn't elaborate my thesis and tell you how I felt about this bill. I'll try it now, in a few words. I know we're all tired... No. Not yet? We can do this. We can do this. I'm not gonna talk about what you're talking about. I would rather focus on my experience, the experience I had with public media, to present a real, real, fact-based image, on my real experience. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk about local radio stations. For 17 years, I was president of the city of Nova Salt. This is western Poland, Lubuskie Voivodeship. With us, the two most powerful radio stations are... I mean, the radio station is West Radio, and TV is TVP 3 Birzów. I have worked with Radio West since 1988, 1989. I was doing computer programs because I was a computer scientist, I was running an IT company. And since the 1980s, I've been watching what was happening on the public radio, on the West Radio. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of these allegations, and in response to the Minister's statement that each medium had somehow been politicized and everyone was out of line... Yes, ma'am, I did. Every time power changed, there was a breath of new wind, someone was trying to do something for themselves. That's what happened, only the scale of what's happening today is just shocking. She's shocking. I've been watching this for years. I repeat once again: governments have changed, power has changed, presidents have changed, editors have changed, but the scale of what is happening today is shocking. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about funding the public media with a huge amount of money. These are really gigantic amounts. But that's what you're talking about, so I'm not gonna repeat myself. And what we're talking about is this huge amount of money when audiences and audiences fall. I've got the data on it. I checked the computer right now. From year to year the number of listeners of Radio West is falling. I just checked. So more and more public money goes to media, which are getting smaller and fewer listeners, but enough to have a significant impact on elections. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with this kind of public media money, one might ask whether the recent elections were fair. They were legal, nobody questioned that, these elections were legal and no one would question it, but the question is, were they fair? Each of us, running for office, had a campaign limit. How could we compete with someone who was supported by public media funding today with huge amounts of money? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, once again, about my experience, which I started talking about, but here's one of the senators, which really upset me and shocked me... I'm the new senator, I've only been here three months, and I've already heard you fuck off from the senator. Literally fuck off. Too bad he hasn't added his grandfather yet, I'd have to thank him for that. For giving my opinion and presenting my experience with public media, I heard from Senator PiS Fuck off. Ladies and gentlemen, the last words about my experience. Just like you. I mentioned, for 17 years I was the president of the city, for 8 years I was the president of the Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship, until today I am a member of the board of the Association of Polish Cities. After the change of authority, five years ago I was recorded, I'm banned from public television, I repeat: no admission. As a public figure with a strong influence on what is happening in the region, as president of the city, as a representative of local governments, I was banned from public television for five years. I'm sorry, I was let in once, I'll correct it, once. I have good contacts with people who work on TV. Those poor people running around with the cameras said, "Mr. President, we're sorry, unfortunately. The editors apologized to me for not being able to speak to me in public. What country do we live in? What happened in the 21st century in the centre of Europe was to write down someone because they had different views. After all, public media did not talk to me about local matters, about building new factories, arming zones, attracting investors, etc. It was written in the 21st century, in supposedly free, democratic Poland. So I appeal to all of you, although I have no doubt how the camp of present power will vote: do not support this law, because it is harmful, it harms Poles, and this money, the giant money for propaganda can be used for other purposes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u127	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted and I therefore close the discussion. I also inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on Thursday. We proceed to the second agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation of customers of GetBack SA with particular attention to consumer protection by state institutions against illegal activities of GetBack SA and actions taken to enable the recovery of funds invested in GetBack SA bonds. I would like to welcome the State Undersecretary present at the meeting at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present information to the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation of GetBack customers with particular regard to consumer protection by state institutions against illegal activities of GetBack and the actions taken to enable the recovery of funds invested in GetBack SA bonds. I also have this information that there are representatives of the Ministry of Finance, I have also seen... the representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission or the Authority of the Supervisory Committee will appear in a moment with the Deputy Chairman, also representatives of the Financial Ombudsman, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, as well as an authorised representative of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Prosecutor, who was here somewhere, is on the spot, as far as I know. I am therefore pleased to present the following information on behalf of the Government. Any negative developments in the financial market may lead to a loss of confidence in this market and thus hinder its development. Non-professional investors, who are subject to extensive protection mechanisms, are particularly placed on this market, and who, despite these mechanisms, were involved by GetBack SA in its financial instruments. For this reason, I would like to ensure that the activities of GetBack SA and those involved in the sale of its bonds are in particular of interest to the competent authorities of the state administration. This interest takes on a wide range of forms, ranging from implemented and proposed changes to legislation that will prevent similar events in the future and strengthen investor interests, to ongoing proceedings by law enforcement and supervisory authorities in the GetBack case. With regard to the legal solutions already implemented to counter similar events, first of all I would like to point out the extensive amendment made in April 2019 to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, which introduced, among others, the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. a number of regulations aimed at strengthening the safety of trading and protecting non-professional investors. The Government's actions aimed at strengthening the coordination of State action against developments in the financial market, including the prior identification of risks related to its functioning, are also provided by the Law on the amendment of certain laws adopted on 9 November 2018 in connection with the strengthening of financial market supervision and investor protection in that market. This law introduced 3 major changes in the scope, firstly, of supervision of the financial market, secondly, of financial education of the public and, thirdly, of the registration of certain securities. In order to strengthen the supervision of the financial market, the Act amended the organisation and functioning of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority. This office has become a state legal entity. This allowed the Office to adapt its resources more efficiently to current supervisory needs, which are dictated inter alia. the need to increase the frequency of inspections in supervised entities, to analyse reporting data or to cooperate with financial market supervisors in other countries. In order to ensure better cooperation between the authorities of the State in the supervision of the functioning of the financial market, this law extended the composition of the committees by 4 additional members, among which representatives were, firstly, the President of the Council of Ministers, secondly, the Banking Guarantee Fund, thirdly, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and, fourthly, the Minister of the Council of Ministers responsible for coordinating the activities of special services. The Act also enabled the mutual exchange of information, including information protected by law, between the NSA and the Internal Security Agency, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the National Tax Administration, the Police and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which in turn enabled the early identification of possible risks, irregularities which may occur in the financial market. The exchange of information also makes it possible to coordinate the activities of these bodies vis-à-vis entities that pose real risks to financial market participants. In this respect, what is worth mentioning is 2 weaknesses identified among others. by the International Monetary Fund as part of a mission that took place some time ago. This is precisely the case for the 2 elements that have been taken into account in this respect. Firstly, the role of inspections has been enhanced, i.e. the collection of micro-data of supervised financial market entities that are subject to the Financial Supervision Commission. The aim is not to rely solely on documentation that is presented by financial institutions, but also to increase the commitment precisely to research these basic data, microdata, which allow to verify whether the data that are presented, aggregated by financial entities, is actually true. And in this respect, it is an increase in the frequency of inspections in supervised entities, inspections, it can be said that micro-level research is such an important element that it can be concluded that indeed supervision, in this case the Financial Supervision Commission has been given the opportunity to perform better and more effectively. The second element is the exchange of information referred to here. Expanding the scope of the committee... It's not about all the members who have the right to vote, it's about the fact that... Also in the context of the discussions we had here earlier, during the various meetings of the committee in the Sejm and the Senate concerning irregularities in the financial market, there was always a thread related to the exchange of information between the various institutions, the various services and the entire complex matter of the legally protected secrets of one institution: whether it can make tax secrets, secrets related to... whether the information that KNF has just owned can be made available... This solution introduced in the case of the aforementioned law amending the way the KNF operates was to include entities such as the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in the framework of the work, meetings of the Financial Supervision Commission. The Bank Guarantee Fund and a representative of the Minister for Special Services... In this respect, so that early information, warnings about irregularities, about certain trends in the financial market could also be used later for their own statutory tasks. This is an important element that I would like to stress: the response to the identified weaknesses of the state institutions. As a result, an amendment to the Act on KNF on the functioning of the Financial Supervision Commission was adopted. In the field of financial education, the Act in question provides the basis for the creation of a Financial Education Fund, the main task of which is to raise the financial awareness of Poles, including their knowledge of the investment products offered. In particular, the Fund shall develop financial education strategies, organise and support educational projects and organise information campaigns. OECD research shows that Poland is at a low level in terms of financial education compared to other countries. A greater public awareness of the risks of investing in financial instruments, such as corporate bonds, is therefore needed. In addition to this law and regulatory changes, it should also be noted that the Ministry of Finance is taking steps to increase financial knowledge, as evidenced by, among others, the fact. supplementing the general education curriculum for general secondary education, technology and industry school with issues related to the competence of the Ministry and the financial market. The last of the most important changes provided for in this Act is the introduction of mandatory dematerialisation of corporate bonds, investment certificates and pledge letters. These financial instruments have been subject since July 2019 to mandatory registration in the securities deposit held by the National Securities Deposit, i.e. the CSD, which will increase the transparency of the securities issued in Poland and will facilitate the access to information about it by KNF and other eligible state authorities as well as interested investors. For the purpose of this dematerialisation, i.e. the depositing of securities, a function of the issuing agent has been introduced, whose task and responsibility, apart from the creation of the register itself, is to check the lack of defective securities and the admissibility of their registration in the CSD and to mediate them when the issuer concludes securities registration agreements in the deposit. The last one prepared by the government and the changes being implemented is the Act of 16 October 2019 amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and on Certain Other Acts, which provides for amendments to counteract the so-called. Crawling offers. This amendment limits the number of private offers without the obligation of KNF to draw up and approve a tender document, which took place in the case of private offers made by GetBack SA. In addition, the Act extended the obligation for investment firms to record and record electronic communications to portfolio management services consisting of one or more financial instruments and investment advisory services. This solution should, first of all, facilitate investors' recovery of possible claims for damages; secondly, it will strengthen the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission to maintain the required standards for the provision of services by investment firms' employees; thirdly, investment firms will be facilitated by the proper conduct of complaints processes. In presenting the actions of the Minister of Finance in connection with the GetBack SA case, I would like to stress that, due to the constitutional principle of legalism, which states that the authorities of the State act on the basis and within the limits of the law, the Ministry of Finance does not have the power to intervene substantively concerning the proceedings of financial institutions in relation to their clients, the settlement of disputes between clients and those institutions, and especially to initiate criminal and procedural proceedings in such cases. Other specialised bodies have been set up to carry out such activities. Therefore, the activities of the Ministry of Finance in this case are mainly related to changes in the legislation which will prevent similar events in the future. At the same time, I would like to point out that these changes are based on the knowledge and experience of the phenomena occurring in the financial market at the time of their design, and that knowledge at that time does not always allow for the prediction of any event that may occur in the future in the financial market. With regard to actions aimed directly at clarifying irregularities related to the activities of GetBack and the entities offering bonds issued by it and thus having a significant impact on the situation of persons who have taken possession of the company... According to the information I received from Mr Robert Hernand, Deputy Attorney General, the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw is currently investigating the signature of RP I Ds. 11.2018 e.g. against Konrad K., former Chairman of the Management Board of GetBack SA, suspected of acting in accordance with Article. 296 §1, 2 and 3 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 284 §2 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 294 §1 of the Criminal Code and others. The investigation was initiated on 24 April 2018 following the entry into the Public Prosecutor's Office of the President of KNF, dated 20 April 2018, with a reasonable suspicion that a number of crimes had been committed by the former President of the Management Board of GetBack SA. On 17 May 2018, the national prosecutor, having regard to the particular importance and complex nature of the proceedings, took over the conduct of the investigation of the supervisory authority and issued an order to appoint a team of prosecutors to conduct the investigation. The investigation was assigned to run the Central Corruption Bureau. On 16 June 2018, Konrad K., former Chairman of the Board of Directors of GetBack SA, was arrested at the order of the prosecutor on 16 June 2018, who has been accused of acting to the detriment of GetBack SA and causing a multi-million-dollar loss on his behalf, and has been temporarily arrested and to date has been subject to a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest. In the present case, 64 persons are suspected, while 21 suspects are under temporary arrest, this measure is currently applied to 4 persons. The allegations presented to individual persons concerned inter alia. actions to damage GetBack SA, thereby causing it a great deal of damage, leading to adverse disposal of significant value of investors in connection with the issue and sale of GetBack SA bonds through Idea Bank SA and brokerage houses and other entities cooperating with the said bank, money laundering. Currently, the total value of the damage that was caused to GetBack SA, which was reflected in the alleged allegations, is estimated at at least PLN 503 million. As a witness in the course of the investigation, more than 1,400 people have been questioned, and the records of this procedure count a total of over 1,1000,528 volumes. It should be stressed that prosecutors have taken intensive action to secure property for mines. the satisfaction of victims' claims. The amount of the assets secured and the accounts blocked on the property belonging to the suspects is currently more than PLN 373 million, with ongoing efforts to establish further assets that could be secured. The main and most important thread of the investigation, due to the large number of victims, is the topic of bringing to the adverse regulation a significant value of investors, i.e. bondholders and shareholders, in connection with the issue and sale of GetBack SA bonds through Idea Bank SA and brokerage houses and other entities cooperating with the above mentioned bank. In this regard, it was found that initially Idea Bank sold GetBack bonds without the required permission from the Financial Supervision Commission. Bonds were sold to customers under the pretext of concluding contracts for bank deposits without informing them of the actual nature of the transaction, thereby misleading the guarantee of profit and security of investment. The motive for the perpetrators' actions was the achievement of a financial advantage for commissions. In view of the evidence introduced in the investigation, the prosecutor considered that a separate investigation should also be carried out in the period between 15 March 2016 and 16 April 2018 in Warsaw, exceeding the powers and failure of public officers to supervise capital markets, protection of competition and consumers by exercising inadequate supervision of the activities of the GetBack SA Management Board and persons associated with this related company, which was detrimental to the public interest. Therefore, an investigation of the signature of the RP1DS16 was initiated on 31 May 2019. 2019 for actions pursuant to Article. 231 §1 of the Criminal Code and others. This proceeding is in the in-rem phase and is conducted as the prosecution's own investigation. In view of its well-being, it is not possible to make public information from the findings made. Due to the scale of the phenomenon, including a few thousand victims of GetBack SA's restructuring activities and Idea Bank, the order of Deputy Prosecutor General of 7 December 2018 No 34/18 was set up in the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw to analyse the material and actions taken in the field of civil and administrative law in matters relating to liability claims and other persons injured in the activities of GetBack SA in the restructuring and Idea Bank. The team's prosecutors shall keep an eye on the bank records of the individual bondholders in the light of the merits of the actions brought in their behalf. After securing the necessary documentation proving the merits of the claim, the prosecutors of the team shall direct the actions for payment. To date, claims have been made for payment to the bondholders of a total amount of PLN 1 million,940,000. The court proceedings are pending. On the other hand, in cases in which the bondholders have brought actions in their own name for the benefit of a total of 2 million 280 000, prosecutors have declared their participation in these proceedings in accordance with Article. 7 of the Code of Civil Procedure in conjunction with Article. 60 §1 of this code. So that these proceedings have not yet been completed. In connection with the actions brought by the prosecutor, an application for civil proceedings was made for a claim of 280 000, because the District Court in Warsaw failed to take into account the application of the prosecutor and referred to the Court of Appeal in Warsaw a complaint which was not recognised. In addition, the prosecutor reported and participated in accelerated restructuring proceedings of GetBack SA pending before the District Court for Wrocław-Fabric in Wrocław, VIII Economic Department for Restructuring and Impairment Affairs. The proceedings before the court of first instance were terminated by order of 6 June 2019 approving the agreement adopted at the meeting of creditors. The order is not valid because it was challenged by individual creditors, i.e. natural persons. Prosecutors also reported their participation in administrative proceedings in cases pending before the UOKiK concerning the application of practices affecting the collective interests of consumers by GetBack SA, Idea Bank SA and Polski Dom Maklerski SA in the process of offering bonds. The team's prosecutors are also taking part in proceedings initiated by the President of the OKiK in the case of a breach by GetBack SA in the restructuring, Idea Bank SA of consumers' collective interests in the recovery of claims. According to the information provided by the Assistant Prosecutor General, both the prosecutors of the non-punishment team and the investigative team within their competence shall organise periodic meetings with representatives of the Association of the Victims of the Librarians of GetBack, during which information on ongoing activities is provided. With regard to the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission, according to the information provided by Mr Rafał Mikusiński, the Deputy Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, we have received such correspondence from the Ministry of Finance, the UKNF's supervisory activities were aimed primarily at establishing the facts as soon as possible, including in particular the detection of irregularities in the activities of the supervised entities and the consequences of the identified infringements. The financial team took intensive action to clarify all the circumstances of the case, including: as part of the control of supervised entities. As a result, a number of administrative proceedings have been initiated concerning the imposition of a penalty. In addition, UKNF has notified a number of suspected offences, additions to notifications, and the staff of the KNF Office, on the basis of the powers granted to them, shall exercise the powers of the President of the KNF to the victim in the ongoing preparatory proceedings. As a result of the checks carried out in 2018 and 2019 until 3 February 2020. KNF has completed 5 administrative proceedings related to illegal activities of supervised entities, including: in relation to the provision of financial instruments and the inadequate performance of duties. In 4 out of 5 cases, taking into account the objectives of the supervision exercised by the KNF and the need to ensure the orderly functioning of the financial market as well as safeguarding the interests of market participants, the KNF has taken the most stringent decision, namely to withdraw the authorisation to conduct the licensed activities, giving those decisions immediate enforcement. In detail, I will say that in November 2018. KNF revoked the permission to carry out brokerage activities with the rigour of immediate feasibility of Polski Dom Maklerski SA. She imposed a fine of PLN 2.5 million on this entity. In December 2018, the Council adopted Regulation The KNF decided to limit the scope of its activities by Mercurius Dom Maklerski SA by withdrawing its authorisation to offer financial instruments by that entity with immediate feasibility and imposed a penalty of PLN 430 thousand. This Decision shall enter into force on the day KNF revoked the permission to conduct brokerage activities with the rigour of immediate feasibility by Vestor Dom Maklerski SA. She imposed a penalty of PLN 1 million on this subject. In November 2019, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No KNF revoked the permission to carry out the activities of the Investment Funds Association with immediate feasibility. She imposed a fine of PLN 5 million on this entity. Similarly, in November 2019, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the KNF revoked the permission to carry out the activities of the Investment Funds Association (Lartiq) S.A., formerly Trigon, TFI S.A., with immediate feasibility and imposed a fine of PLN 5 million on this entity. The result of the audit carried out between 2018 and 2019 was also the initiation by KNF of 3 administrative proceedings against GetBack SA itself, one of which was terminated and the other two are in progress. HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: KNF imposed a fine of PLN 500 000 on GetBack SA for violation of the article. 56 Act on Offering in connection with the preparation of periodic reports for the 1st quarter of the financial year 2017, the first half of 2017, the 3rd quarter of 2017 and the failure to publish annual reports for 2017 and the consolidated quarterly report for the 1st quarter of the financial year 2018. It should be pointed out that the Commission took into account the interest of the creditors of GetBack SA in the restructuring in this case, which it expressed by imposing a moderate financial penalty on the company, while not applying sanctions in the form of excluding shares of the company from the stock exchange. The application of this sanction would deprive the company's stakeholders of information on the financial and property situation of the company. As regards the ongoing administrative proceedings by KNF against GetBack SA, 1 of them concerns the imposition of an administrative penalty on GetBack SA for suspected infringement of the Article. 17 in conjunction with Article. 7 Regulation No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on market abuse in connection with the failure or inadequate performance of information obligations for the public to disclose confidential information, inter alia. for the implementation in 2018 of obligations arising from the issuance of bonds by the company. The second proceedings are the subject of an administrative penalty imposed on GetBack SA pursuant to Article. Article 192 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Act on statutory auditors and audit firms and public oversight in connection with suspected infringement of the article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Act on auditors concerning the independence of the members of the audit committee. Information on the termination of these proceedings shall be made available to the public in an appropriate manner. According to the information received from UKNF, it also conducts supervisory activities towards other entities responsible for the infringement. This information is covered by professional secrecy The KNF will inform the results of these activities in an appropriate manner. In terms of helping people who have taken possession of GetBack SA bonds, I would like to point out that actions taken by UKNF related to the disclosure and imposition of sanctions in the event of irregularities found may indirectly contribute to the recovery of lost funds by victims of GetBack SA bondholders. In particular, the determination and disclosure of infringements, including sanctioned administrative penalties imposed by the KNF, may be helpful for victims of their claims for damages against those responsible for irregularities. Similarly, in the case of offences, the KNF's activities in relation to their identification, resulting in the submission of almost 80 notifications and additions to notifications of a legitimate suspicion of the offence, may be helpful to the victims. The effects of UKNF's explanatory activities have been an important contribution to the prosecution's preparatory proceedings and have an impact on its dynamics. Among other things, on the basis and on the basis of UKNF's findings, the prosecution determines the persons responsible and secures the assets of suspects. In turn, in connection with the information provided by Mr Tomasz Chróstny, President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection... The activities undertaken by the UOKiK focused primarily on the public-law level. According to art. 1 The Act on Competition and Consumer Protection in the case at hand therefore boils down to proceedings aimed at clarifying irregularities in the offer and sale to consumers of GetBack SA corporate bonds and related infringements of consumers' collective interests. These proceedings are conducted against entrepreneurs involved in offering and selling GetBack SA bonds to consumers, mainly individual investors. The actions of the President of the UOKiK on the public-law level of protection of consumers' interests can be divided into 3 stages. The first stage was initiated by an ex officio investigation on 28 April 2018 No. DOiK-403-3/18, which was intended to determine whether the sale of corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA could result in a breach of the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Competition and Consumer Affairs, as well as the establishment of which entities, brokers or intermediaries were most involved in the sale of those bonds. This procedure was initiated immediately after the first press reports, which concerned the financial situation of GetBack SA, before receiving signals from consumers. The first consumer signals began to enter the office in mid-May 2018. The second stage was the initiation of 4 further investigations to investigate the practice of entities which were most involved in the process of offering the sale of GetBack SA bonds: Idea Bank, Polish Brokerage House SA, Mercury Financial limited partnership and Noble Securities SA. These proceedings aimed in particular at establishing what information was provided to consumers by the entities mentioned on corporate bonds and whether it was reliable, true and complete information, and whether misselling was not involved in offering or selling corporate bonds. The third stage was the initiation by the President of the Office, as a result of the findings made in the investigations referred to, of infringement proceedings against consumers' collective interests: against GetBack SA on 5 February 2019; against Idea Bank SA on 10 October 2018; Lartiq, formerly Trigon TFI... as well as proceedings on the application of unfair terms in the designs of contracts by Polski Dom Maklerski SA. In connection with the proceeding against Idea Bank SA on 1 August 2019, the President of the UOKiK issued a partial decision No RBG-13/2019 stating that Idea Bank used unfair market practices in the course of the offered corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA, i.e. misleading consumers by disseminating false information: (a) as regards the guarantee of profit on corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA by informing consumers of the fixed guaranteed rate of the bonds on a yearly basis; (b) as regards the guarantee of the security of corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA by providing information to consumers suggesting that these bonds are safe as bank deposits or government bonds or that the issues are supervised by the Financial Supervision Commission; (c) the exclusivity of offered corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA by suggesting that access to these bonds is limited and there are a lot of willing investors for their acquisition or offer to purchase these bonds is unique; (d) as regards the temporary availability of offered corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA by indicating that the bonds of this trader will only be available for a very short period of time. The employees of Idea Bank SA used these practices to persuade customers to make an immediate decision on the contract and thus deprive them of the possibility of conscious choice of the product, including. aside from the information on the current frequency of issuance of these bonds, which could have led the customer to decide on the purchase of the bonds offered, which they would not have taken otherwise. This constitutes an unfair market practice as referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, point (b) is replaced by the following: Point 1 and paragraph 2. Point 3 (2) in conjunction with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Against unfair market practices and thus infringes Article 2 of the Act. Paragraph 24 1 and 2 (3) of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. The application of the abovementioned practices was discontinued on 30 April 2018, the decision is not valid. In addition, on 3 February 2020, the President of the UOKiK issued a second partial decision No RBG 1/2020 against Idea Bank SA, stating its application to consumers so-called. misselling consisting in proposing to consumers who were connected with Idea Bank SA a bank deposit agreement, structured deposit or life insurance contract with an insurance fund, the acquisition of corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA, where the conditions for issuing those bonds in terms of investment risk did not meet the needs of those consumers, based on information held by the bank on banking and investment products held by consumers, as well as statements made in the course of the acquisition of bonds or other banking products. In the decision indicated, the President of the UOKiK stated that Idea Bank SA used misselling, proposing to customers who were not connected with the bank with any agreement, the acquisition of corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA in a situation where the conditions for the issue of those bonds in terms of acceptable investment risk did not meet the needs of those customers established on the basis of their statements made in the course of offering them corporate bonds issued by GetBack SA. This has been a practice affecting the collective interests of consumers as referred to in Article. Paragraph 24 Point 2 (4) of the Competition and Consumer Protection Act. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, At the same time, on the basis of Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection, the President of the UOKiK imposed an obligation on Idea Bank SA to pay public compensation by the bank under the following conditions. Idea Bank will pay to all bondholders who have purchased GetBack SA bonds in connection with their proposal to purchase these bonds by Idea Bank SA, a public compensation of 20% calculated on the amount of funds invested in the amount of PLN 50,000 as the minimum threshold required for the entry into GetBack SA bonds, while for consumers who have jointly invested only PLN 40 000, the amount of compensation will be calculated from that amount actually invested Within 1 month of receipt of the completed claim for compensation from the consumer. The payment of compensation will not apply to consumers who have entered into an agreement with Idea Bank Spółka Akcyjna or have obtained a final decision of the General Court or arbitration court, or to any other institution entitled to investigate out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes in which Idea Bank S.A. was party to those decisions. In addition, Idea Bank SA will send a letter to any bondholder referred to in the decision containing a statement on the content of the decision and information that the decision of the President of the OOKiK may constitute a preliminary ruling before the court. In addition, Idea Bank S.A. will publish on its website information about practices related to so-called practices identified by this Decision. Misselling for the offer of GetBack SA bonds which will be available on the website for a period of 12 months from the date of this Decision. This decision is not valid. As regards proceedings against the Polish Brokerage House, on 4 February 2019 decision No RBG-2/2019 recognising the provision of the standard contract was issued. The formula for accepting the proposed purchase of series bonds (...) GetBack SA, used by the Polish Brokerage House SA with the content of: • No oral statements were submitted to me or no information was provided that would be contrary to the information contained in the proposed purchase of the bonds and/or bond issuance terms; for an unauthorised contractual arrangement within the meaning of Article. 381 §1 of the Civil Code Act. At the same time, the President of the UOKiK imposed a penalty of PLN 2 million 74 000 483 on this entity for the use of an unauthorised contractual procedure in the contract template. It should also be pointed out that the decision decided to remove the effects by informing consumers of the decision of the President of the OKI in this respect and of the consequences for consumers, i.e. non-binding consumers with an analysis clause, which will make it easier for them to claim from entrepreneurs involved in the sales process. This decision is not valid because the trader refers to the court. At this point, I would like to stress that the adoption by the President of the UOKiK of these decisions, in addition to the financial aspect of the compensation decided, constitutes a significant support for the bond holders of GetBack SA, as it may be a preliminary ruling to assist consumers in the recovery of individual claims before the courts. This means that, if the trader is assigned to practices affecting the collective interest of consumers issued by the President of the OOKiK, the decision will be able to set a precedent in possible civil proceedings brought by individual consumers in order to obtain compensation for the damage suffered by the trader as a result of their application. According to the Supreme Court Resolution of 23 July 2008, the final decision of the competition authority and consumers finding abuse of a dominant position is binding on the civil court. This resolution was subsequently referred to in the order of the Supreme Court of 23 April 2015 to infringe the collective interests of consumers, according to which the final decision of the consumer protection authority finding the infringement is binding on the general court and thus the scope of its application has been extended to consumer cases. In the course of proceedings opened from office, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection shall also remain in constant contact with the Office of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Financial Advisor, the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Prosecutor's Office conducting the investigation in the present case. In addition, the UOKiK designed and implemented the concept of legal assistance to victims of irregularities in the sale of GetBack bonds based on legal, organisational, financial conditions. This system consists of: consumer infoline; consumer e-confidence centre; places and district consumer spokespersons; consumer organisations, including branches of the Consumer Federation; Trade Inspection; Financial Ombudsman and UOKiK. Assuming that the first step of any consumer who has purchased bonds, regardless of who bought them, should be to lodge a complaint, the actions of the OOKiK focused on the support of consumers in the correct submission of complaints, which the validity of which will be difficult to challenge. In cooperation with the financial spokesman, the UOKiK has developed a simple, clear step-by-step manual for both the affected consumers and the institutions to assist them in drawing up complaints. The manual will be distributed through the UOKiK website and other organisations and institutions, as well as in the media, including social media. The UOKiK has also developed complaint forms for use by ombudsman and other institutions in helping consumers. They contain specific supporting questions that will help to describe the facts and how the consumer has been misled. A separate communication on the GetBack case with detailed instructions and guidelines was sent to consumers and the Trade Inspection, which are the regular recipients of the monthly UOKiK newsletter. At the same time, the UOKiK website has created a tab on the corporate bonds market, in which a simple, transparent description of what a consumer who purchased GetBack bonds through a capital market entity can do. The website also contains information on the conduct of the arrangement procedure and a link to the company's curator's website. In addition, as part of the competition for public tasks from the grant budget, the association of bankers of lawlessness received funds for a cycle of free conferences and individual legal advice. In particular, the project was aimed at people with so-called. currency loans, policy-lockers and GetBack bonds. Due to the great interest in legal advice on financial services, the association has once again entered the grant competition and received funding from the UOKiK for 150 hours of legal advice. The guidance was provided in 14 cities in Poland. The Consumer Foundation, which runs the Consumer Helpline, informs interested consumers where to look for help, and the Consumer Federation helps in writing complaints by analogy, as spokespersons do. Both organisations shall make available the materials prepared by the UOKiK. The same materials and information have been provided to the Trade Inspection and at the same time the UOKiK is constantly analysing the situation of GetBack bondholders in the context of information on the practices of traders offering and selling corporate bonds, which the Office obtains in the framework of ongoing proceedings under the Act on Competition Protection and the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Market Practices. In addition, on the UOKiK website there are 2 presentations for consumers indicating what they can do if they bought bonds issued by GetBack based in Wroclaw via a bank or brokerage house or directly from GetBack, as well as a graphic illustration of possible consumer behaviour. At the same time, the Corporate Bonds section was added, which included a compendium of knowledge. The financial spokesman is also involved in helping those who have taken possession of the bonds issued by GetBack. According to the information provided by Prof. Mariusz Golecki, the financial spokesman has undertaken and continues to take a number of actions to support clients of financial market entities involved in the distribution of GetBack SA bonds within the framework of his powers established by the Act of 5 August 2015 on the handling of complaints by financial market entities and on the Ombudsman. It is worth noting that in November 2017, as a result of the impact of several e-mail queries on corporate bonds, the financial spokesman posted on his website information on investments in corporate bonds under the title "The Ombudsman's Analysis of Financial Bonds'. In this guide, the Ombudsman pointed out the differences between corporate and fiscal bonds, paying attention to the existing risks associated with investing in such products, in particular in the case of unsecured products. In turn, since April 2018, the financial spokesman has repeatedly informed the bondholders of GetBack SA about possible forms of support through various forms of transmission, including. directly at meetings with representatives of injured bondholders, as well as through their website, media, television, portals. The full picture consists of various speeches by the Ombudsman's experts to the media, comments and interviews. It is worth noting that, in the current legal state, the Ombudsman's assistance could only be directed to the part of the bondholders who acquired GetBack SA bonds through a financial institution, i.e. a bank or a broker's office. Within its remit, the financial Ombudsman shall provide support to clients by taking action at the request of the client of the financial market entity. To date, the Ombudsman has noted the impact of 802 requests in individual cases brought as a result of the failure of the financial market operator to take account of the client's claims in the procedure of handling complaints, requests for intervention. Out of these 2 applications were cancelled, 4 applications were outside the Ombudsman's jurisdiction, 26 applications were addressed only to the Ombudsman, 76 requests needed to be completed by formal deficiencies, and 694 applications were submitted to the bodies. Out of these 694 requests for intervention, 97 cases remain pending, 5 cases were dealt with in favour of the customer and 592 cases did not change the entity's position. According to the data provided, the financial Ombudsman has so far provided legal arguments of around 800 persons who have applied for intervention. As financial market operators have not changed their positions as a result of intervention, customers have been provided with knowledge of their powers and move to the stage of judicial proceedings. During that period, the financial spokesman also provided 461 telephone advice on the acquisition of GetBack bonds and 85 email advice. The Ombudsman received 52 requests for an out-of-court settlement of the dispute with the client. For formal reasons, 6 of them were rejected, for the remaining 46 applications, the case was initiated and pending. In 21 mediation cases, the agreement was not reached. In August 2019, the Financial Ombudsman organised meetings with representatives of the bank and the stockbroker's house offering bonds. The purpose of the meetings was to establish the possibilities and conditions for amicable settlement of disputes with customers. Since the meetings held failed to bring about an amicable settlement of the disputes raised and to identify the level of concessions made by the parties, the financial Ombudsman made his own proposals to resolve the disputes. As part of the proposals made, the financial Ombudsman did not decide on the fairness of claims vis-à-vis entities, but proposed his own solutions which could facilitate the conclusion of an agreement between the parties. In all cases, despite the customers' interest in the proposals submitted, the parties did not reach an agreement. Within the framework of its statutory powers, the financial Ombudsman shall be entitled to make a statement in the course of judicial proceedings containing a view relevant to the case. In view of the small percentage of the financial market operators' consideration of clients' claims in the context of the complaint procedure for the benefit of customers, and of maintaining their position as a result of the action taken by the financial Ombudsman in the course of the intervention proceedings, the natural way will be to increase the number of litigations of clients of financial market operators against those entities. The Ombudsman, acting of his own motion or at the request of the court and of the client of the financial market operator, may make a statement containing an important view of the case in matters of the Ombudsman's jurisdiction. To date, 28 requests for a meaningful view have been received by the Ombudsman, with a dynamic increase in the Ombudsman's assessment. The Ombudsman issued 16 important views. In other cases, it looks forward to filling in the formal deficiencies. As regards the administrative penalties imposed by the Financial Ombudsman, in 1 July 2019 he issued an administrative decision pursuant to Article. 32 of the Act on the Financial Spokesperson imposing a financial penalty of PLN 100,000 on Idea Bank SA. This decision was contested by the bank to the voivodship administrative court. Finally, I would like to point out that the matter of GetBack is multifaceted and requires detailed, in-depth explanations. According to the information provided, such action is taking place. In my opinion, the state authorities have taken action on this matter of unprecedented scale and nature. I am referring not only to the regulatory changes implemented, but also to the actions taken by the competent law enforcement and surveillance authorities. On the one hand, I would like to draw attention to the process of eliminating from the market entities that have infringed the essential interests of investors, especially non-professional ones, as a result of the KNF decision to withdraw the licence from several entities involved in offering GetBack bonds, and to impose appropriate penalties beyond the practice of those who have committed irregularities. On the other hand, in the area of direct assistance to victims, the actions of both the UOKiK and the financial spokesman should be highlighted once again. In my opinion, the decision of the President of the OOKiK establishing an infringement by the entrepreneur will play an important role for the victims. This decision is a preliminary ruling, which means that the determination of the office as to the application of the practice is binding on the general courts when dealing with individual cases involving consumers. The same is true of the infringements identified and disclosed by the KNF in an appropriate manner, which may assist the victims in the recovery of compensation claims from the bodies responsible for irregularities. It is also important to mention the procedure used by the financial Ombudsman for making statements containing an important view in the course of legal proceedings between financial market operators and customers. Once again, I would like to assure you that the authorities of the State within their competence are working to clarify this matter comprehensively and, at the same time, in the framework of the existing rules, serve to provide all possible information, as well as to help those affected as a result of the activities of GetBack and those involved in offering the bonds issued by it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay here because I have a list of senators who wanted to ask you a question. Sure. I would be the first to ask the questions of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u130	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, I am, I'm going to say the most euphemistically, saddened. The Minister shall provide information to the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation of GetBack customers with particular regard to their protection, and shall mention the measures taken to enable the recovery of funds invested in bonds. You're talking about the government taking action on an unprecedented scale and scope. And he's talking about a situation where we have more than 9,000 people injured, bond buyers or people who bought GetBack's shares on the stock exchange, and he's talking about money invested in the amount of at least PLN 2.5 billion in losses. And you keep us informed, for example. that the association received financial support in the form of 150 hours of legal advice If you count at PLN 200 per hour, it is worth PLN 30,000 as the equipment of customers with legal knowledge. You know what? To be honest, I was embarrassed as rarely as I listened to you today. [[Applause]] Let me ask you... You didn't do anything for the victims! There's no fund, the most important thing... Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Calm down, please. He's still lying insolently. I'm gonna ask you a few questions. I'll put most of them in writing. Well, after this presentation of information, of course I'll ask you a question... Because I understand you're presenting this information on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers. Do you think that the extent of State aid is appropriate to the scale of the problem we are dealing with here? Next question. If the Constitutional State Audit Authority in the form of NIK assessed negatively the Financial Supervision Commission and its office, which at an early stage did not detect irregularities in the activities of GetBack SA and in the process of offering and selling securities, and consequently the supervisory authority, that I would quote the report, did not fulfil its statutory objective of ensuring the proper functioning of the financial market, its security and the protection of its participants, according to NIK, this limited scale of KNF activities has also led to this order of magnitude of losses. This must be asked how the President of the Council of Ministers supervises the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is his statutory duty. Let us also remind you that the President of the Council of Ministers appoints the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and its alternates. If we're following your point of view that it's a matter of the utmost concern for the state authorities to address the victims, then I have a question. It's not about the kind of actions you mentioned, it's about trying to be real. Is the government considering setting up a compensation fund, e.g. one that would be powered by penalties imposed by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection or the Financial Supervision Commission, which could serve as at least a partial solution to the victims? You're right to say... This decision is indeed very important. I am talking about the decision of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which assumes that any bondholder who lodges an appropriate application may receive compensation of 20% invested funds, but counted for an amount of up to PLN 50 000, which in practice means the possibility of compensation of PLN 10 000. Of course, if someone has invested less, as you said, then there may possibly be more compensation than the funds invested, but we both know that the specifics of the GetBack scandal are that a large proportion of customers have invested much more money. The specifics of GetBack differ from the previous financial scandals, that here often customers, acting in confidence because it is a regulated market by the state, invested... Mr. Senator, time, time... Oh, I'm crossing, aren't I? Time, time. It's still short, short... One minute already five times... That's just two more short questions. Then you can ask me later. Firstly, is the government considering amending the rules on statutory secrets covered by the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority and its office? Today, they serve primarily to protect the interests of financial market players and ignore the interests of victims. Secondly, is the government considering reshaping civil procedure rules so as to strengthen the position of consumers, e.g. by increasing the activity of the courts in the field of evidence proceedings or introducing an inverted burden of evidence, so that the trader is obliged to prove that he has fulfilled the requirements of fair trading and not the consumer who is the victim of unfair practice? And one last question. Is the government considering reducing judicial costs in the context of this case as a solution that could be a real tool in the context of what is inevitably ahead of us with such an unprecedented involvement of government institutions in helping the victims, that is, a wave of judicial processes directed towards the Treasury?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u132	Thank you very much. These are questions that go beyond the matter of this speech and the activity of the Ministry of Finance. However, I am aware that I am acting on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers, and what I can say is that the general assessment of the activity, the activity of the State in this area, within the limits of these legal decisions and within the limits of the law which regulates proceedings in such cases, is appropriate. In such a sense, it is appropriate that we are dealing with support. And that's what I'm talking about. On the part of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, on the part of the Ombudsman, the actions of persons who, by judicial means, seek to obtain compensation in connection with the identified incorrect practice of financial market operators. It can therefore be said that institutions such as the UOKiK, such as the Financial Ombudsman, are naturally, in a justified and positive manner, addressing the needs of the victims. Of course, I understand the remarks of the Minister showing an example of grants in the amount, as estimated here, of over 100 thousand PLN. I would like to remind you that this is not the only support, especially since this support concerns an association that fights rather the institution of bank loans, i.e. the association of banking unlawfulness, rather than just the victims of GetBack. Therefore, it can be said that this is one of the many different actions aimed at raising financial education. But of course there is no reason to hide this kind of activity, which is support in the form of these trainings, and the great interest that these trainings have encountered. This is also proof that the UOKiK's decision made sense. In addition, of course, there are a number of actions related to the prosecution's proceedings. I know that there are a number of questions for the prosecution, and this topic related to the issue of GetBack is the subject of ongoing discussions at the Parliamentary Committees' meetings. There, representatives of the prosecutor's office can say something about this and speak regularly, at certain intervals, depending on the interest of committees and Members. In these meetings, the meetings of the committee are also attended by the victims and the prosecution informs about its activities related to the security of the assets, with penalties and it is worth remembering that. Is the extent to which all institutions act in playing the law appropriate? He's right. Of course, the question is whether due to the identified weaknesses of the law is reflection, which should be changed in Polish law. This is what I tried to put forward in the first part, and it was the legislative proposals of the Ministry of Finance, which were aimed at strengthening the Financial Supervision Commission. This is also a reaction in some sense to what NIK says. Because if there are indeed irregularities, it is worth remembering that, for example, those irregularities that were presented in the NIK report were also interested in the prosecution. This is not in the information presented by me, but it is worth noting that a few days ago there was information about interest from the prosecutor's office in what was the practice related to the operation of KNF in this case, therefore there is absolutely nothing to hide. If there are irregularities, they will all be resolved. It is worth remembering that it was the Prime Minister himself who commissioned NIK, that asked NIK to examine this case, that audit which Mr President spoke about, is precisely the control which NIK, of course as an independent entity, carried out at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers. This is like an assessment of the KNF activities, an evaluation of the KNF activities will actually be carried out. All state institutions are evaluated and if irregularities are diagnosed, of course there is no reason not to admit... The compensation fund is a subject that appears and is discussed for a long time. You have to be aware of the existence of 2 elements. This is the solution that was proposed and analysed. Nobody's gonna... In the Ministry of Finance, there are arguments both for the fund and for the arguments that this fund will not be a very effective instrument that can work in this case. Notice what that would be like. If we were to deal with irregularities, usually in the financial market, for example the issue of bonds sold by an entity which then operates in such a way that it loses a significant part of the assets, this property is being carried out, the entity falls... The main problem is whether the penalties that will be imposed on the entity in some sense confronting the reality of bankruptcy will potentially be the same as those that it lent on the financial market. I don't think so, so... This is not proportional to the deposit guarantee, and in fact the deposit guarantee scheme is 100% It's a security detail. If we want to build an analogy to such a situation that the European Union's Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive states that anyone who places funds in a bank has a 100% guarantee of up to PLN 100 000, then... There are no solutions which could, by analogy, guarantee this in case of investment in corporate bonds. Investments in this area are linked to economic risks. Of course, the aim of the supervisory authorities is to avoid the fact that the entity carries out misselling, i.e. sells risky instruments to persons with a different investment profile, and that the entity behaves in such a way that it violates the fundamental principles of the financial market. This aims to protect both the interests of customers and the interests of the whole public sector, the sector of financial institutions. So a fund that would have been created and to which penalties would have been imposed would have allowed a small part of the money to be paid. So there's a question... Of course, this has now been done, the solution that has been applied, works in this way, indeed, the penalties go to the Financial Education Fund. But the aim of this fund is not to pay in small amounts, and to support all activities related to raising economic awareness, to support economic awareness and knowledge, so that citizens can be less likely to face the risk of irregularities in the future, namely selling risky financial instruments to people who simply have different preferences when it comes to accepting risks. About the question of legally protected secrets That's the fourth question. I'm going to say that I'm not able to answer right away, so I suggest a written reply. This is the matter related to the functioning of the Financial Supervision Commission. Normally, if the Ministry of Finance decides on a legislative initiative, it must confront its arguments with the Financial Supervision Commission. This is a kind of practice that involves KNF saying... Excuse me, I'll make one sentence. Well, we know the KNF practice from the Sejm... No, no, this is overkill. ...who classified the part... tried to secrete the part of the session. I see. Please, Minister, to conclude, because this is... And in this sense, I am not able to clearly determine what are the positive and negative sides. In any matter related to secrets, a broad analysis should be carried out. As far as civil proceedings and costs are concerned, this is a question for the Minister of Justice. Therefore, what I can propose is an answer to this case given by the Minister of Justice in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you are talking about the fact that the authorities of the state have taken action, they have shown interest, they have initiated proceedings. You could say better late than never. I would like to ask about the period of rule of law and justice, when the institutions of the state are wrongly or imperfectly By failing or by failing to respond to knowledge, which was already quite common knowledge, they reacted to the situation in GetBack. Don't you think this is a classic situation in which a parliamentary committee of inquiry should be called upon to clarify this very period in which you were unable to do so? In a different situation, after many times less severe for the state and for the citizens, in the situation of Amber Gold, such a committee of inquiry was set up in the Sejm. Don't you think that the reason why the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice didn't set up a committee of inquiry on the GetBack affair is because this institution has repeatedly supported institutions, media, the environment associated with the camp of power, even through the funding of media or the financing of events on which prominent representatives of the camp of power, including Julia Przyłębska, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, or the President of Law and Justice, have been awarded the Man of the Year or the Man of Freedom? Isn't that the reason why this gigantic scandal can't find its finale in the Parliamentary Investigation Committee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u135	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u136	I can answer the actions taken by the state authorities and the Ministry of Finance and what conclusions can be drawn from this situation. Unfortunately, I am not a specialist in the law on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, and I am therefore unable to answer the question of whether it is a competent institution in this regard. Here it is worth asking a specialist who knows the details of the functioning of the law on the Sejm Committee of Investigation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u137	Thank you. Please, Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We, me and Marshal Borusewicz, made a request to present today at the meeting information on the situation of GetBack. We have made such a request to the Prime Minister, realizing that this matter has an absolutely political context. This requires that these responses also be political responses. The question of Senator Rybicki about the question of the committee of inquiry is, in fact, a question to the Prime Minister as the leader of the Party of Law and Justice. I repeat this question, maintain it, and please... Because you're here on behalf of the Prime Minister, aren't you? Please respond in this matter. If the Minister has not been authorized to give such an answer, we ask that the Prime Minister give us the answer, because the political responsibility for the GetBack affair is clear, evident. Earlier, even before the scandal broke out, it was clearly visible in various media broadcasts that the close relationship between Prime Minister Morawiecki and the dead was seen. Mr Prime Minister's father with this very environment, so this issue requires this kind of clarification and we ask for this kind of clarification. That's one problem. I am signing what was said by Senator Rybicki, and I am strengthening it, and I am asking for a written reply. And the other thing. In view of this issue, the NIK audit was carried out at the request of the Prime Minister I appreciate it, it's important. It was completed, the conclusions were presented last December. It's been almost two months since, and I'm asking if anybody... Because this assessment is very critical of state institutions Not to the Ministry of Finance, which is hardly criticized here, but also to a lesser extent by some financial spokesman, there are minor comments. But it is clearly shown that these two institutions have abandoned, failed to see, did not carry out controls, did not warn citizens about the risks arising from the operation of GetBack. And were the personal consequences brought out? I'm not talking about criminal, because that's probably what the D.A.'s office and the courts are gonna decide later. Have the persons who dealt with these matters in these institutions been cancelled? Have they been removed from their duties? Because it is clear that these people were simply misbehaving in this case. Well, I'd like to say that like we talked about Amber Gold's affair, it's in her case. This was obviously an ineffective warning for many months before the Amber Gold scandal even arose, KNF warned to watch out for the institution of Amber Gold, there were even press releases in this case, etc. There was no such thing here. The question, therefore, is whether the persons supervising such activities as GetBack's activities have assumed professional responsibility, have been released, removed so that such situations do not occur in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u139	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u140	Yeah, I get it. And that's also two lines. The first one about... I will pass on this request for a written reply to a question relating to the committee of inquiry to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, to the Prime Minister. I understand this request and we will pass it on as a series of consequences of this meeting, i.e. those written responses from the competent authorities... The second point concerns the Financial Supervision Committee. What I can say now, but it will not exhaust the answers, is that it is worth remembering that the President has changed. Today, the chairman of the Financial Supervision Committee is a different person than... It's unrelated to the case. This is obviously unrelated to the case, but in general it can be said that, indeed, from this point of view... I think that the president will be able to clearly answer how he identified the work of the committee. We'll ask him... I understand that it is as if, in response to this question, how the Commission's actions have been identified and whether the consequences have been drawn on those who have taken decisions in this regard. We will therefore pass on this question. It is worth remembering that the President is a year old, but he is certainly in office and is able to answer this question properly. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal, just... I'm asking for an assignment... Just a little more, Mr. Marshal... I'm looking at this... I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u142	Yeah, except we asked for that information from the Prime Minister. As I understand it, you should be authorized by the Prime Minister to answer such questions, otherwise our conversation today makes no sense at all. I understand that you speak of your narrow scope as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. But these questions we're asking are questions... It seemed that even the basic answers to such questions would have to be collected, because they are obvious and they impose themselves, and you send us back... ...to the lamus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u143	Mr. Senator, I'm asking you a question. The place for any comments, whether critical or not, is the government's debate, and the questions serve, as the name suggests, to ask them. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the event of GetBack there are 9 000 victims, the losses amount to PLN 2.5 billion. In Amber Gold, losses amounted to PLN 500 million according to Ernst & Young's report to the District Attorney's Office in Łódź. That's five times these deposits. I have a question. The KNF's analytical activities were already carried out in December 2017. The former President mentioned in February 2018 that such a check had entered GetBack. During this time, the Stock Exchange rewarded GetBack for making the best use of the potential of the GPW's markets. And on 28 February 2018, a member of the board of GetBack receives a prize from the Stock Exchange. Did you explain this matter as part of the supervision of the Stock Exchange? How did this happen? Since 2008, there have been agreements between KNF and ABW and between KNF and CBA. Did you explain how the Financial Supervision Commission failed to implement these agreements since December 2017? §2 of these agreements provided for the obligation for the KNF to provide all information on possible risks to the functioning of the financial market. So KNF, by capturing any threat, should implement an agreement with the heads of one and the other service. How did this agreement not happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u146	As regards the issue relating to the Financial Supervision Commission, the following is the case. Well, the analysis of the operation of KNF is ongoing and this is competence Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is worth remembering that the Commission for Financial Supervision is an independent institution that operates in such a way that the President is appointed for an irrevocable term of office. Therefore, there is no direct supervision in the sense that the Minister of Finance oversees the tax office. Yes? This is more financial than substantive supervision. The point is that the Commission for Financial Supervision is an independent institution, which results from legal regulations. The supervisory committee, like the central bank, should be an institution that should take sovereign decisions, of course within the limits of the law. If there is a breach of the law, then of course there should be consequences. As I understand it, this is the decision of the prosecution to initiate proceedings in this regard. The procedure to clarify irregularities should be initiated and the procedure should be initiated. As a general rule, there is no practice as if there is no legal formula to assess the functioning of KNF from the point of view of legal conduct other than the natural nature of the prosecution's proceedings when there is a breach of the law. There's also NIK, of course. And here I have full appreciation for the Supreme Audit Chamber because she has attempted to evaluate... Of course, it is worth discussing with this assessment, considering what conclusions have been drawn, but the very fact of the enormous work of the controllers... It's called competence. Supreme Audit Chamber . Control of the functioning of the authorities, application of law-related practice by those authorities, legal proceedings. Therefore, this report of the Supreme Audit Chamber is important because it is a good opportunity to deal with it. Surely all institutions that, you can say, have the power to apply actions CBA, ABW, took action. Question... I can't answer that right now. I don't have the knowledge. But the fact that the irregularities that were related to the operation of GetBack in this area... This is the nature of irregularities that result from the functioning of the financial market and in this sense it is extremely important that KNF cooperate with the ABW. But the question is what are the expectations in this regard, what should be the next steps. I'm sure this will be verified. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u147	Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u148	I'll ask you one thing. Are you working on any other solution to help these 9,000 people get their money back? Except, of course, the compensation fund. And at what stage are work on the compensation fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u150	The compensation fund was already mentioned. About the actions that... That's usually two roads. First road She's already been presented. This is the application of a whole range of safeguards to the property of persons who are being prosecuted or who are actually arrested. The total amount of collateral, as I said, exceeds PLN 373 million. And this is the first way that is important from the point of view of the case The second concerns the very operation of GetBack. The point is to make it possible to cover the claims. And there's the third step. It's a court case. They are extremely important from the point of view of regaining money, i.e. compensation. The aim is to ensure that those who have led to this state of affairs, as a result of the judicial process, pay compensation to the victims. It is extremely important here that state support On the part of the UOKiK, the financial spokesman, also the prosecutor's office, which is involved in these civil proceedings for damages, was as strong as possible. These are the three main, basic actions that allow us to deal with the problems facing the victims.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I congratulate you on your courage to come here. This is a very serious matter and we will not give up until the Prime Minister of the Republic comes here, because it is about 9 000 people who think about one thing every day: whether the Polish state I don't want to say, "PiS." He recognizes us as a sovereign, doesn't he recognize us and leave us to himself? And now I have a favor to ask you. I have four questions and I would ask you very much to answer me in writing. First of all, I'd like to ask you... I join you in what Senator Rybicki said about the committee, because after listening carefully to your speech, I have this impression. and from the report by NIK And that's what we're talking about. That the State had spread such a protective umbrella over the GetBack scandal. I'd like to thank you, Minister. I refer here to the present Senator Kwiatkowski, who started control of NIK on behalf of these unfortunates. This is inexplicable. You used a whole range of clichés about how you manage the state better than you did in the Platform and PSL times. On this Gold thing... Amber Gold. ...Amber Gold, which is a difficult matter to call the former government, you've made a whole theater for Europe and the world, and now, as it stands on your desk, the obvious thing is that you've completely screwed up. Here's my question. As the Committee on Financial Supervision, I repeat, the Committee on Financial Supervision, has been addressing you as an entrepreneur rather than a politician for five years. Didn't have a single check in this company, especially what did you say in your speech that she had received many legitimate signals that she should take this supervision? My second question is why against the rules. It's no longer a secret, Minister. At the meeting of the Sejm Committee of Budgets and Public Finances, information from the control of NIK was classified? Mr. Senator, Minister Kwiatkowski is smiling... I'd like to ask it in writing, Minister, from you. And why the Warsaw Stock Exchange failed to complete its duties and the opinion was not thoroughly checked, e.g. About the debts, the liabilities of the company? This is vademecum. I just can't understand it as a long-term entrepreneur, I can't understand it if there's no other bottom. Minister, I'd like you to answer that question now. Don't you think that's human? I'm asking on behalf of these 9,000 people; you know these facts. 50% of the shares in The funds should be returned to those poor people by banks that, as I say, have sold toxicly, knowing what they're selling, and 50% by selling. The country that screwed up the case? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand you're asking for a written answer to your question? That's the last thing I'd like you to do, Minister... Yeah, but also... Because you're on the list of senators who... Yes. Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister, to answer this question, which is not a question... Yes. ...requiring a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u154	Before I get to him, there is one comment: from the report of the NIK, which is critical of the state institution in various places, there is no existence of any protective umbrella. Such wording or conclusion shall not arise. Therefore, it is worth remembering... Of course, it's... In the NIK report, we're talking about... and it's worth remembering, too. Because you can argue with certain accents and diagnoses, but even if you take them for granted... Well, no one's going that far. As far as the Stock Exchange is concerned, this is actually a question worth asking, because the Stock Exchange... I know from the stock exchange that this award, which is being discussed here, isn't... The internal regulations of the stock exchange were quite rigid and binding hands to the authorities of the stock exchange. In this respect, it is worth remembering that they have, you can say, taken action to change these rules, which means that verification... The principle of awarding prizes results from meeting certain criteria of emissions and emission scale. And in this respect, you can say, there are no rules of procedure In addition to the fact that the entity who receives the prize is to be the best in terms of issue in some sense of those rules that are described there, there is no verification that this entity is, so to speak, a paying agent, in a tax sense. And there's also a question today, whether the stock market, if you consider the tax secret, would be... Even if she had the utmost will to go to the National Tax Administration, as a stock exchange, as a commercial entity, she will not be able to obtain information on whether or not tax irregularities are being handled, etc. Therefore, it can be said that here the stock exchange is aware of its rigid regulation in this respect, which is associated with this award. But these are the limitations that arise, you can say, precisely from legal secrets. The I Stock Exchange simply does not have the possibility to use information covered by tax confidentiality. About that last case... I'm gonna go over here and answer the question about damages. It is worth remembering that we always act within the limits of the law and our conclusions and beliefs must be within the limits of the law. I mean. What are the basic principles? It is necessary, in a legal sense, to be aware that the determining court in a particular situation is, of course, a court, that the infringements relating to the functioning of the state bodies, well, must be intentional and aware. I mean. that is the scope of the law. So we need to use the existing rules and also make private redress as simple as possible and as efficient as possible and allow the real victims to receive the funds they have paid to the greatest extent possible. But here's the question... And in this respect, These are actions of the nature of compensation from the entities that sold the bonds. The defendant is often Idea. And there's a penalty... And in this respect, you can say, it's like... there are lawsuits that we see. Of course, this is not only about Idea Bank, but also about other institutions that sold bonds. Can we consider that there is a basis for a claim against the State Treasury? There are no targeted measures to bring about this situation. Thus, it is difficult to recognise that the State Treasury is appropriate in this respect in specific situations. Surely the State Treasury and state authorities should draw conclusions. They should support victims, they should do everything they can to ensure that judicial cases are completed as effectively as possible, and they should also carry out a number of other activities, such as financial education or the enhancement of the powers of bodies, actions aimed at securing assets, support to ensure that this property does not evaporate, that GetBack and other entities are institutions that will be able to pay compensation. These actions are public. I understand that the question is whether... When is the State Treasury responsible for the damage? That's when the conscious decision was made. Yes? There is no information here that this is of such a nature, and therefore I do not see the possibility in this regard. Mr. Marshal, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u155	You're welcome. I understand it's a question. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u156	One sentence that's gonna be a question. Wouldn't it be worth it, Minister... I'm trying to get you to do this. Very often, as a government, you ask for Members I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, Why don't you ask the Members to set up a committee of inquiry after all? After all, you are an authority for your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. What about negligence? Thank you very much. The next question you ask is Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u158	Minister, of course, it will be difficult to prove any deliberate action by state institutions here, but please tell me whether the failure to act by state institutions, which NIK stated... Until several state institutions ceased to act during that period, in particular the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority, which did not carry out a single audit in the company during the first 5 years of its activities. Don't you think that, from a legal point of view, it is not only the deliberate action of the authorities of the state, but also the failure to act is a liability? That's the first general question. The second question is more specific. Tell me why the Financial Supervision Authority has not carried out such a check in five years, a very important check. Did the Ministry of Finance try to find out? Can you share some information?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u160	As far as the first question is concerned, there is really a specific legal formula that settles the matter. It's an art. 231 of the Penal Code: a public officer who, by exceeding his powers or failing to fulfil his duties, acts to the detriment of the public or private interest, is punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. And in the case of the criminal code, there must be a process of verification through the prosecution's office, the court. So it's kind of... It's, uh, it's a pretty strong accusation, so you could say... it's really hard... I'm asking about the civil and financial liability of the Treasury, because criminal of course... I know the D.A. has to investigate and... I get it. I get it. But really, the responsibility of the state body... At the end of the day, it will always be the responsibility of a particular authority, i.e. a person who... Without such decisions it is difficult to say yes or no. A specific judicial procedure requires an answer to this question. Of course, there are people who will think that yes, and those who will think that no. It is therefore appropriate for the court to decide this authoritatively. As for the second question, which is the KNF question, I can say that I really... That's a question for the Financial Supervision Committee. As far as I know, the committee answered the question about the actions and information taken from that whistleblower. GetBack was supervised as manager of securitisation fund portfolios and not as a financial institution. In this sense, KNF stated that as if the control practices that concern financial institutions, banks, funds are different and as if there was no practice to deal with the control of securitisation funds to such an extent. And this is... But it's worth asking the Financial Supervision Committee in detail because what I'm doing right now is I'm quoting the arguments of the KNF. And I understand that there may be additional questions about the practice of controlling KNFs over securitisation funds and how they differ from the bank. It is best to simply ask these questions to the representative of the Financial Supervision Committee, the committee, because the chairman was, as far as I know, at a secret meeting of the Parliamentary Committee and there answered these questions widely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, to ask you another question. I'll ask... Since I know that there is a Vice-President of the KNF, I would like to ask him questions, Mr Marshal. But is it... There's a vice-president... Is there anyone in the O.R. invited from KNF? Is there anybody from the Financial Supervision Committee in the O.R.? There isn't. There isn't, Mr. Marshal. He was, but he's gone. He was, but he's gone. Is he gone? That's interesting. It was and it was gone. Well, then we wait because there's no one to ask questions about it. Minister, you're not kind of a party here... Well, then, Mr. Marshal, why don't you check it out, see if it's in the Senate or get him... I understand that the proper Senate services will now determine whether or not you and the KNF will be so kind as to come. Well, maybe those questions can still be asked. Of course, Mr. Marshal. If you don't have... No. I have questions for the representative... Okay, that's the... ...KNF, because... In that case... ...I want answers. ...Mr. Marshal, as soon as you show up with KNF or... Good. ...Mrs. KNF, you'll have the opportunity to ask that question. Thank you very much. Now, I'd like to ask you the question of Senator Jack Bury's minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here mainly about the victims, about the fact that many people have lost their money. This is one part of this chain, this puzzle. As far as I'm concerned, it's a big scam, and if there's a scam, it's a question of stakeholders. I said, where'd the money go? Because GetBack, as far as I know, was in charge of buying debts and he was gonna get them back, he was gonna buy them for a little money, because it was a long one, so to speak, already recovered, hard to recover, but he was gonna have wonderful ways to get that money back. I'm sure GetBack was buying these packages. As far as I know. The debts that have already been recovered, from various financial institutions, from banks, from debt collection companies. I would like to know which companies, which of those companies he bought from, had the largest share in this market, in this venture. 'Cause I think there's probably someone who's gotten a lot on it because he sold something that was worth zero for a certain amount. I'd like to know who's the biggest customer, service provider, or those debts to GetBack. Who was that? Five of the largest players. And were they e.g. SCOC-I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u164	Unfortunately, I don't have that information right away. In general, the five largest... those entities that... the GetBack activity, in short, was really about what you were talking about, the senator, the buying, the rather expensive, the securitised assets, the loans that were actually treated as an NPL, which is insolvent, and then the recovery of them. As a recovery company, GetBack had some effectiveness in recovering those debts that had previously been identified by the bank as insolvent. And, of course, it's always that... the securitisation procedure is that the bank finds a group of loans called insolvent, it sells them back to funds that are specialized precisely in the fact that they can better collect these debts. The price varies according to the estimate, which is the percentage, what is the probability of repayment: 5% values, 10, 15, 1.5%. Everything is, of course, determined according to the price. Basically, if the price is, let's say 5%. i.e., if 1 out of 20 credits is repaid, then zero; if more, plus, if less, minus. And as for who's gonna benefit from this... It is worth remembering that in economic terms GetBack has kind of 2 realities. The first is that the economic principle itself looked like This is the assessment by experts of non-remunerated. Such expensive purchases of credit from banks, buying at a higher price, actually means that we are dealing with an economic solution, which is generally not viable in the longer term. Because if someone's buying expensive and they're selling cheap and they're still on the downside, then... Well, it just doesn't pay off. And there is also the second element, connected with the irregularity, with what is the domain and task of the prosecutor's office, whether to prove the conscious withdrawal of money, if any, and all actions, let's say, criminal, not related to mismanagement. And here are the threads that are verified. If there's anything to prove... I'm asking about these initial cases, because when it comes to criminal cases, we're gonna be doing this all the time. Yeah, we're not going in here... In that case, if the Minister doesn't have that knowledge, I'll ask for an answer... In writing? ...in writing, if possible. But these are the biggest banks, right? I mean, here are the banks that... Let's just say it's about the 10 biggest stakeholders who worked with GetBack who sold him... Sure, of course. I'll get it ready. These are the biggest banks, but I'll answer in writing what the value of... Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u165	Thank you very much. Senator Józef Zając is asking another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u166	Mr. Marshal, Minister, for starters, I have two questions. Does the current legal situation regarding the regulation of bond issuance exclude further irregularities? And does the law currently work for consumers? Has the correct conclusions been drawn from the disclosure of the problems of GetBack SA? And second question. Whether a recommendation for supervision for investment firms is being considered to shape the conditions for issuing consumer bonds, i.e. consumer bonds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator, for asking questions. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u168	Please note... The question was about the law. In the legal sense, the law on strengthening supervision, as well as regulations that concern the interests of clients in the financial market, is a legal framework allowing them to... That right can be exercised. In this respect, as the Ministry of Finance, we see no legal problems. Of course, the most important thing is later the application of the law by the state authorities, which is to act in an appropriate way with subsequent issuances, so that there is no such phenomenon as offering risky bonds to people, often older ones, who have a risk aversion profile and prefer a safe deposit guaranteed by the State. Therefore, it is extremely important that here... the role of supervision is also important here. The aim is to ensure that those institutions that offer, sell such instruments, are controlled to draw conclusions to impose penalties. In this respect, we can say what we see today, that is that we have implemented another European law, which was particularly focused on the client's interests after the crisis. We also have identified locations, you can say, in some sense, the supervisory deficit, and that strengthened the Financial Supervision Commission. The Commission declares and so we accept That penalties, control practices are now better in the sense that other entities have been deprived of the right to conduct brokerage activities, etc. Therefore, from this perspective, it can be answered whether it has been concluded that these conclusions have actually been drawn. As far as the latter case is concerned, here it is worth remembering the issue referred to here, i.e. the liquidation of the so-called. walking offers. This refers to the provision of risky instruments to You can say in a nutshell. Okay, you're gonna have to go around the This solution is also analysed and taken into account in the context of the Public Offering Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask the question by the last one on the list of senators to vote... Not the last, second to last. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm joining Senator Bure's request. I'd just like to clarify it. I ask very warmly for a list of those entities that have sold their claims It's about the list, of course. But also about the information that the claims were. Could it have been a fund that de facto had X's debts? If you have that knowledge... Well, that would be extremely interesting for me. What claims did GetBack put together in practice? If these were bank claims, I'd like to know which banks, and if they were telecommunications or energy, I'd also ask for such a breakdown. The second question is specifically addressed to the Minister as a representative of the finance department. I wish I knew. And I'm gonna ask you to answer in writing. From where this delay in the implementation of European Union law in the context of 2 laws strengthening the supervision of the financial market and the activities of audit firms, laws which were particularly important for potential buyers of GetBack bonds. It was a law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. Its implementation took place 108 days after the required deadline and had an impact on the delayed entry into force of additional provisions that in practice increased the scope of protection for acquiring corporate bonds. Seeing as I'm extremely pleased to see the deputy Attorney General, Mr Hernando, I'd like to ask him a question. What kind of a prosecutor's team is on a case like this? How many people do that exactly? What is the size of this team, and what are the effects of the prosecutors' work today? How many indictments have been brought before the court today, and what were the charges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u171	Thank you, Senator. I understand, Minister, that Senator Kwiatkowski's questions are questions... All of them... ...to which you will answer in writing. Yeah, but... One second. Before we proceed with the questions you have addressed to the Deputy Prosecutor General, the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, will, as I understand it, ask another question to the Minister. Yes, to the Minister, but if the Minister is unable to answer, I will address this question to Mr Hernando's Attorney's office. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u172	Minister, can you tell us how much of what was captured in GetBack can reduce this loss, which is 2.5 billion? Let me remind you that in the case of Amber Gold, it was 800 million and 250 million were recovered, i.e. the total loss was 550 million Do you know how much of what's left of these assets... How much can those assets that are left reduce the loss of those citizens who invested in GetBack? Thank you, Senator. If you can't answer that question, I'm gonna ask the D.A. who oversees, I understand, the investigation and may have... I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u173	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Before we go to your prosecutor's questions, I still have a question for the Minister. In examining GetBack, were you also involved in the structure of this company's expenses? I mean advertising expenses, because GetBack was quite an active participant in the advertising market in Poland, advertising its services. Have you examined what media were affected by this money, which was aimed at encouraging people to use the services of GetBack? In short, what media players have earned from the harm of people who have been deceived by GetBack?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u174	Unfortunately, I do not have that information, it was not analysed by the Ministry of Finance. I think that only the current administrator, which is the person who manages the company, can have knowledge of the subject, and perhaps... That's how you answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. One more question. One more question, senator Borusewicz. You're welcome. And you're also Senator Komarnicki. First Senator Borusewicz and then Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u176	Minister, I'd like to ask you if you've read the NIK report. Because in this report are listed media entities in which GetBack invested, using advertising opportunities, because various events are also advertising opportunities. You haven't read... Have you read it? I read it, yes. Okay, I get it. It was, of course, a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u177	Mr. Marshal, we don't ask rhetorical questions, I would ask very much... As I understand it, you already have an unretoric question for Senator Komarnicki. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal... I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, when it comes to rhetorical questions, we have, as usual, the opportunity to ask them, but in the debate... But, Mr. Marshal, that wasn't a rhetorical question. The question was whether you read the report. He said he read the report. He read the report, just not... So not rhetorical, just practical. It's been answered. You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u178	I'm waiting politely, since there's a dispute between two marshals. It's not a dispute... Minister, I have a very big favor to ask of you. Could you tell me because this is the essence of a case that all these banks have sold the most toxic bonds? Do you have that knowledge? Because maybe the D.A. does.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u179	In the sense of which banker... Yes. I can't... It is a group of banks that are identified as companies of the Treasury. And, Mr. Marshal, may I address you to the D.A.? I don't have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u180	Well, as I understand it now, there will be questions for your prosecutor. When the minister's done, take it easy. Okay. So if there are no further questions to the Minister, Mr. Minister is standing there all the time, etc., he answers. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. The question to the Deputy Attorney General was first asked by Marshal Borusewicz... No, I'm sorry. First, Senator Kwiatkowski. I asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer questions first asked by Senator Kwiatkowski, I kindly inform you that we are dealing with two prosecutors' teams, as the Minister has already mentioned. The first prosecutor's team is an investigative team that conducts a preliminary investigation. It consists at the moment I'll mark it: right now. 5 prosecutors, 5 agents of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, 3 officers of the Capital Police Command, 3 assistants and forensic analysts. I kindly inform the High House that the creation of such a mixed group, i.e. a group composed of officers of police authorities and other services, such as the CBA or the ABW, and prosecutors, is possible under the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. According to the methodology of the procedure, i.e. the Code of Criminal Procedure and the former law, it was practically impossible to create such a group in a formal sense, because it had to be the decision of the prosecutor to entrust the conduct in whole or in part, or individual investigative activities to a specific service, which in the legal sense... She regulated the work of the service, this service dealt with specific subjects. I merely remind you that all services have a specific scope of the activities in question so that these duties and powers do not overlap. Therefore, such a group was established and functioning. The results of her work were told by the Minister on the basis of the part of the information that was provided by the National Public Prosecutor's Office by the Deputy Prosecutor General. And going back to the issue of these groups, I just want to say that very often it is so... According to my prosecutor's practice, when groups formed at the level of individual services dealt with this subject, this was very often changed due to their temporal nature. This group is permanent. This is a novelty when it comes to the functioning of the prosecutor's office in the field of cooperation. The second group is the group. so-called. non-punishment. As the Minister said, this is a group made up of three prosecutors who are engaged in the following activities: firstly, in the management of the actions, and secondly, in proceedings before the President of the UOKiK, of which the Minister also spoke. These specific proceedings relate precisely to the question of examining this subject, which has already been pointed out to you here. I'm not gonna say it again. To answer the next question... I don't know if I've fully responded to Senator Kwiatkowski. I think so, but if you're expecting a senator... I'll answer your further questions. And how many prosecutions are there? There isn't yet, Mr. Senator, there isn't. They'll be here this year. As far as the number of persons charged at the preparatory stage is concerned, I do not know whether the Minister has already discussed this subject, but we are dealing with... I would like to be precise in this respect. This is over 60 people, this is, like, 64 people, including 21 people... yes, it's 64 people, and 21 people have been temporarily arrested. At the moment, there are four people who are temporarily arrested. As for the initiation of the preparatory procedure, the complex matter of the procedure and the complex nature of the case Because we are dealing with the issue of researching financial instruments, in my deepest conviction. this is a very well-run procedure, very broad in terms and subjectively. I would just like to inform you that I do not supervise this procedure personally, I did not take over its superior supervision. I know that this case is supervised at the level of the Department of Economic Procedure. A new department, created in 2016 to combat economic crime, because such a department was not previously at the level of the prosecutor's office, to say the least. As I recall, Mr. National Attorney, who deals with this issue. To answer Senator Borusewicz's second question, Mr. Marshal, we are using this amount of 2.5 billion here, so I will allow myself... not to comment, but to quote the information you are giving, not me. Compared to the amount of loss or damage to individuals... It's about the company's activities. I can name it because it's already widely known, Amber Gold. Ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor is based on the amount he has indicted. That's the difference. He doesn't use media terms, he doesn't even use concepts or numbers that are in reports of such institutions or other institutions, but he uses the amount that is at the level of the charges, and so determines the amount of the damage. As regards the issues relating to the amount of the damage itself, the Minister said that this is an amount exceeding 500 million, and I will use that amount. Of this amount, more than 500 million... The Minister said it was probably 503 million. Based on what he received from the prosecutor's office, the Minister gave you detailed information. 120 million is the amount of fraud committed against the people who bought those bonds. To the rest, the concept of injury within the meaning of Article is appropriate. 296 of the Penal Code, i.e. the economy of the operator's activities. Very generally, but I hope to provide you with sufficient information. So I can talk about that amount. The level of property security is, as the Minister said, the amount of PLN 373 million. Except she's gonna be growing all the time, I think, because we're in the process. The intention of the prosecution is to ensure that this amount of collateral, which is made up of the various elements of a criminal activity... that this amount is a security for the victims of this case. But the form of this compensation or the distribution of that amount will be decided by the court in its final decision. The prosecutor shall under no circumstances be authorised in a legal sense to judge already at the stage of the preliminary investigation. In this respect, it may express its position at the stage of judicial proceedings, in the final statement, and the decision shall be a matter for the independent court. Is that answer I gave the senators, the ministers, the marshals enough? I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecutor. You're still Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. District Attorney, I have two questions for you. I repeat my first question. Do you have any knowledge, in the light of the facts you've certainly gathered with your prosecutors, what banks and how many It's just a percentage of what you're going to say. They sold these toxic bonds for 2.5 billion, and some say they sold them for 3 billion? I'm a little surprised at the sum of 500 million zlotys that are interested in the prosecution, I don't know what that results from. That's the first question. And my second question is this. Mr. District Attorney, is your team aware that people are the least interested in the fact that thieves, crooks will go to prison and at the expense of the taxpayer will be sitting in this prison, and people are rather interested in getting back as much of their invested, hard-earned money as possible? And is that what it is to think that the most important thing is to get the greatest amount of financial volume from thieves, and that, whether or not someone will be sitting, doesn't matter to these poor people today?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, undoubtedly yes, this is primarily of interest to the prosecution, as I have already mentioned before. Still pointing to the level of security... If the senator is interested in security in the historical sense in the various preparatory proceedings over a dozen years, then of course the senator may receive such information. And I can assure you that this amount of collateral is very high. And in practice, I know cases where these safeguards weren't at all, and there were huge amounts in the allegations. So this is the essence of the prosecution's action. Two-track, I would say: at the preparatory stage, as I have already said, and at the non-punishment stage... Because I would just like to inform the senator that this non-punitive activity is also important in terms of safeguarding the interests of the victims, in the form of bringing an action. That's the first point. And in the form of these administrative proceedings, which I mentioned, before the UOKiK, which is to safeguard the interests of these people. I would just like to raise one more point that is very interesting in the cognitive sense. Because let's remember that the prosecutor is in the public interest, and that's the essence of the prosecutor's action. However, there was also the court's view that the D.A. is paying the price. Or the views of the court that the prosecutor didn't show public interest in acting as such. We think this public interest is. Because he's in the interest of the victims, those people who... all of their business consists of our common interest, public interest, I point out. Our common public. Although we do, I can honestly admit a certain duality of the views of the court. But, well, it always is, and we just have to deal with it. And that's the business. These actions, in the sense of the charge, the amount we're talking about, the concept of damage... I'm sure it's going to increase, because the victims are still reporting, and they're being questioned immediately by the prosecutors at the trial stage or the Central Anti-corruption Bureau agents. And I'm sure I'm markin' it. The number of actions brought will increase in terms of the number of persons covered by these actions, the victims, as well as the amounts covered by those actions. We do not have a court ruling today, but it is very difficult to collect documentation at the stage of proceedings, these non-punishment activities. Because if we have some inquisition actions at the stage of the Code of Criminal Procedure In other words, obtaining evidence or information is much easier because the prosecutor has the instruments provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure which give him certain possibilities, with certain legal limitations resulting from the fact that the decision of the court is necessary, i.e. The prosecutor must obtain a decision from the court, but at the stage of the collection of materials in non-punitive proceedings, the prosecutor often finds it impossible to obtain e.g. information on banking secrecy. Well, that's not an option because he's a prosecutor, he has to follow procedures in this area. But I can assure you that these actions will be much wider. Mr. Senator asked about the question of these... you said it nicely or rather not nicely. No, it doesn't matter about toxic products. Yes? As far as I remember, that's exactly what you used. Well, about that... Here we are dealing with the amount of more than PLN 120 million from sales. And this is established in the course of the proceedings. As for the remaining amount I was talking about, this is a question of the concept of injury which was linked to the activities of this particular economic operator. But once again, we're here at the stage of the charge. I hope that this year the first indictments will be brought to the court so that the right to the court, which applies to all, including the prosecutor, is also the right to the court for the suspects, and the right to the court for the victims, is exercised.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecutor. You're welcome, Senator Borusewicz and Senator Lover. Maybe you can first, because Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal... You're welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u187	Mr. District Attorney, from what you've said, the situation doesn't look so bad. Half a billion, which means there's 505,000... And 375... And secure at 375.... I'm gonna try to figure out where $2.5 billion came from in the NIK report, according to which principles NIK was counting It's like there's 2.5 billion. But from what you're saying, it's not bad. More than 50% of the damage is secured. You said 120 million was stealing. Is this 120 million money being taken out in some way?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u188	Mr. Senator, the sum of 120 million that I have quoted, based on the allegations, is the amount resulting from the allegations of fraud in the sale of bonds. Yes? So it's not stolen, because the concept of stealing is a different concept than cheating... Yeah, yeah, I get it, I get it. But... ...it's just to be precise. But that's the amount that comes up in this charge, as I say, for today, because... well, that's what I have in mind when it comes to prosecutorial charges. But were they... Did you also say you were taking out the money? Fraud, Mr. Senator. Fraud... Well, it's not the same, of course. ...for sale, of course. Leaving could be a misappropriation. And getting out... Abuse, yes. So here's not the concept of embezzlement, but fraud, to be honest... It wasn't an embezzlement... ...and bring to an unfavorable regulation property, just like that. And it didn't happen... It wasn't a scam to steal, get that money out? No, we're talking about the issue of fraud to the detriment of those who bought the bonds. We're talking about that concept. It's precise... I see. That's how I understood the charges. I hope this information, which has been given to the senator and the high senate, is enough. Except, as I point out all the time, these data can change all the time, because the stage of the procedure is dynamic and you have to remember that. These allegations may also change in the sense of the amount itself, because the prosecutor has the same procedural form as the changes, the addition of the charges to those who have already been accused. It must be borne in mind that the final determination of the amount of damage that is included in the charge of fraud, the charge of committing a crime of abuse of trust, as a result of which there has been damage, is a matter for the court. The Court of First Instance, in the operative part of the judgment, of course, in so far as such a conviction falls, must include this amount in detail, and has the right to amend that amount on the basis of the actual findings of the case. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u189	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for you or isn't there? It's gone. Thank you very much. No, no. They're still here, right? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u190	Thank you very much. The prosecutor, praising the new legislation, was talking about how effectively that word was actually missing in your relationship. How well teams work, which consist of prosecutors, officers and agents of the relevant services. I admit you're right, it's a good way to react quickly to crimes that are very complicated. Well, even in an exchange with Marshal Borusewicz, there has just been a finding of what to call a specific crime. I also understand that the prosecutor praises the new legal solutions that allow this kind of action, and I am not surprised that you are finally at the head of an institution that helps honest people to protect themselves from dishonest action. Therefore, my question is: how quickly do you think that the money that the victims are looking for will be returned, or 9,000 people? Well, you're an experienced prosecutor, you know exactly how long they've been running... I do not ask in detail whether Mr. Kowalski will receive the refund on June 1st, and Mr. Nowak on July 15th, I mean the period of months, years. So how quickly do you think this can happen in connection with this new way of investigating, more effective than previous legal solutions? The other thing has bothered me a little bit, and I'm asking you to explain. Speaking of how difficult it is sometimes to get to information, because banks hide from bank secrecy, you have used this phrase: action in this area will be wider. What does that mean? Are we going to avoid banking secrecy, require banks to be subject to other regulations or amended regulations not to keep this secret, so to speak, to loosen the secret? What did you mean by that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! Well, the senator misunderstood me, I was talking about a few legal regimes, among others. on the regime of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which imposes rigors on any authority wishing to reach banking secrecy. The law on banking law applies here, which regulates this issue at the stage of the investigation and determines precisely when the decision of the court must be taken in this respect and when the prosecutor has access. If we're talking non-punishment, I think I'm sorry, Senator, but you didn't understand me. It's because of non-punishment that the prosecutor doesn't have access. There is simply no way to get past the bill in the course of these actions. In no way... I would like to make it clear that there will be no circumvention of the bill. The prosecutor must clearly act on the principle of legalism, apply the law of the bank law. So there's no way he's gonna miss that bill. Don't worry about it. Once again, I think the senator's questions... Well, either my speech was vague enough that... they were due to a certain misunderstanding of what I said in this regard. It's obvious. As for the earlier question you asked, I'm gonna say yes. First of all, let us bear in mind that, with regard to issues relating to compensation for victims of injury in this case, the first point is the question of the decision of the conviction court or the decision of a civil court which takes account of the action and the validity of that decision. It's obvious. However, I'm sorry, but the question was so generally asked that I find it difficult to answer this question completely. In a very general way... I'll ask you this if you'll excuse me. Let us also remember, Senator, that proceedings are pending before the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection concerning the application by GetBack SA and Idea Bank SA of practices affecting the collective interests of consumers. There is also a prosecutor in this non-punishment procedure. As a result of the proceedings, 2 partial decisions took place, a decision of August 2019 declaring infringements of the collective interests of consumers by the bank and of 3 February 2020 to recognise the operation of that bank I don't want to mention it, I think its name is already public, but let me say that I won't mention the name of this bank. It is based in Warsaw for a practice that violates the collective interests of consumers. By virtue of the second of these decisions, it was considered that the same bank used misselling, i.e. it offered to consumers GetBack SA bonds in a manner that was not adapted to their needs. As a result, the same bank was obliged to pay public compensation to those consumers who purchased GetBack SA bonds through this bank. Decisions have been made in these proceedings, with the prosecutor involved, as I mentioned earlier in my speech... Please ask the UOKiK representative here for more information, because his knowledge in this area is certainly much more specialised, more detailed and will clarify my statement. I am trying to tell you this in a very general way. I am not a representative of this institution, therefore I will not speak, I have no authority to speak for someone. According to the prosecutor, decisions taken will facilitate the investigation of the victims in the court of their rights violated by GetBack and the bank and the recovery of a significant proportion of the funds invested. That's a two-track answer. First of all, there is a security of property, which will then be reflected in the relevant judgment, i.e. the court will divide the security, bearing in mind the amount of the damage, the nature of the damage and who was injured. The second stage is, as I stress, the prosecutor's actions, which are brought against specific individuals for compensation and for the specific amounts which are indicated in the action. There's also the DA's involvement. I'm just talking about the D.A.'s office. In the proceedings before the UOKiK. These are actions that I believe will guarantee success in a specific procedure. I'm just asking you. Mr. Minister spoke about it. It is noted that the proceedings were initiated a few days after the notification of the offence was filed. A few days. The charge of the first person was made. I would not like to be imprecise here 2 months after the opening of the procedure. With such a gigantic scale of violations and the complex nature of the procedure, presenting such a precise and difficult plea in its legal structure required the enormous work of prosecutors, who had done this work from the very beginning, in my opinion, very professionally. I would not like in any way to quote other data and to discuss the facts of other such proceedings, such as those related to the economic operator you mentioned here. I am, of course, prepared for the prosecution's agenda in this area, but I don't think this is the subject of the Senate's deliberations, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecutor. The senator wanted to ask you a few more questions. Yes? Yeah, I'd like to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u194	I think some of the victims of this incident are listening to today's debate, and I want to know all this, Mr. Prosecutor. To be honest, when I listened to you, I thought about how important the language we speak is. You speak absolutely legal, and I need to concentrate hard to understand it to the end, and I think that the people who entrusted... trusted those financial instruments that the bank offered, want to know more, Mr. Prosecutor, what is it going to be: 10 years, 5 years, 2 years, 7 years? I was referring not to your function, but to your experience in this matter... I see. ...and I have asked for this experience to be summarised with the changes in the law that you propose, including the prosecutor general, the Minister of Justice, to improve the proceedings of the courts, the prosecutor's office and all the authorities that make a citizen in our country feel safer, because sentences are issued more quickly in his favor or not in his favour. But the speed of law and language that we inform about the work of this law are what should be and should be reformed. So my question is how much faster or how much faster In your opinion, when you rely on experience, people who suffer from an accident can expect their money back?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u195	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! I do speak legal because I am obliged to do so. I, for God's sake, don't deny it. It's obvious... Of course. If I didn't use it, there would be a charge that in at least a very strange way I behaved in the forum of the honorable Senate. But as the senator said, from experience, some historical practice Well, we can go back a dozen years, and even dozens of years, it turns out that the process of recovery of property by victims... In the beginning, in a purely practical sense, actually existed... We remember an institution that was before 1989, or such an ease, in short, in this respect, which provided the procedures of the 1969 Code of Criminal Procedure. However, there is no doubt that there was a regress of several dozen or so years ago. In my experience, these procedures are much faster now. Faster in the sense that, above all, the safeguards are more effective and more effective. I would just like to stress that the expanded confiscation that has been introduced gives positive results and gives such results that this possibility of confiscation of property... And I have to tell you, after meeting with the Prosecutor of Milan, who once said that without confiscating an extended fight against the mob there wouldn't actually be... Because where there's money, there's the mob, we realize that. This gives greater results in terms of quantitative and rapid action by the prosecution. But once again, I would like to stress that this is a matter of court decision. As long as it is, I hope, this year's indictment... Evidence proceedings carried out by the court, any facilitation of this evidence proceedings which have been brought into the proceedings... I hope it will be as soon as possible. But I can't tell the senator it's gonna be a year or two and so on. Well, of course, let's bear in mind that there are civil forms of direct compensation without judicial judgment, which in a customary way always functioned under civil law. I do not know whether this can happen in this case or not, because I do not have enough information and I do not want to mislead you in any way. I hope that these actions will be taken into account by the courts as quickly as possible, and that those subsequent actions which will be brought will be so effective and legally established that the court will not have a problem with the formal truth of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to rule on this specific amount, and that judgment will clearly be enforced. I hope that this will happen as soon as possible, and I will do everything on my part when it comes to this non-punishment activity, the prosecution's action. That's why this team was created to in addition to the stricte actions criminal activities have been carried out outside criminal activity. I do not know how it is in other systems, but I remember that in terms of the operation of the prosecutor's office in the countries of the European system, this non-punitive activity, practically, does not exist or is negligible. We have this opportunity, with regard to the action of the prosecutor's office, a very broad occurrence at the stage of administrative proceedings, administrative court or civil proceedings before the court, and we are therefore taking this action. And I hope so. Well, maybe I'm speaking in the most readable way for the senator. That this will be a matter of securing and issuing judgments on this matter as soon as possible. The D.A. doesn't give judgments, the D.A. doesn't make any decisions that they can commit... That's what an independent court is for. There is, of course, a form of compensation for damage, but this is an out-of-court issue, we know exactly after that. I present to you this information that I have today. I hope this will be done as soon as possible. One of you may ask how this has been going over the years. This process is increasingly positive when it comes to the actions of the prosecution and the courts on securing lost property due to purely criminal offences, crimes against economic turnover or against property. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u197	Thank you very much. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz has a question for you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u198	Mr. District Attorney, because you're using the legal language... You were talking about the actions of the D.A.'s attorney-in-law. The band's called... Unpunished, Mr. Senator. Oh, non-punishment... Out-of-penalty. Outlaws... Non-punishment, that's a big difference. Well, that's the difference of course, non-punishment. Then say, so briefly, very briefly, what type of These are actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u199	Yes, please, Mr. Senator. I thought I'd been understood from the beginning... I wouldn't use that phrase in front of the High Senate. It was about extra-punishment. Speaking like that and not different, I was hoping I'd be understood from the beginning... Non-punishment isn't illegal, of course. For the sake of clarification, non-punitive actions are actions taken on the basis of the Code of Civil Procedure, on administrative law, i.e. k.p.a., and on the law on proceedings before administrative courts. These are the actions of the prosecution in progress before the authority that makes the decisions. The prosecutor may act, the prosecutor may sue, file a complaint with the provincial administrative court for the decision of the authority, the local government body, i.e. the resolution. The prosecutor may also refer the appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. And in the case of the Code of Civil Procedure, this is about all the actions that are envisaged... It's a civil code and a civil procedure, except divorce proceedings. Of course, there is a very limited possibility for the prosecutor to participate, for obvious reasons. To the rest of the range, this is the whole range of activities. Once again, the courts have different opinions, but, well, I'm not gonna comment on that. There are always legal arguments by the prosecutor to ensure that the courts take his legal view into account. As for the actions that the senator is asking about, I stress once again: non-punitive As the Minister said, the appropriate order of the Deputy Prosecutor General of 7 December 2018 was set up in the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw to analyze the materials and actions taken in the field of civil and administrative law in matters relating to liability claims and other persons affected by GetBack SA's actions in the restructuring and banks... I'm not going to exchange... This team consists of three prosecutors. Like I said, five plus the other people I mentioned here. And this team consists of three prosecutors. Well, it's hard for this team to be exactly the same, because we're dealing with the directing of pleadings in the form of actions, there's no need to cooperate with the police authorities, the special forces... Mr. District Attorney, thank you, that's enough for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u200	I understand there are no further questions for your prosecutor. Thank you very much. Thank you. But there are questions to the representative of the Financial Supervision Commission, Deputy Chairman of the KNF, Mr Rafał Mikusiński. Mr. President, I would like to ask you to take your seat. Good morning. The question will be asked by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u201	First question: why has the Financial Supervision Authority not carried out a single audit in this company for so long for the first five years of its activity? What was the result? And second question. Is there, therefore, an investigation within the Financial Supervision Authority? If so, I'd like some information. And the first question is: why didn't the office control the operation of the company during the first five years of its operation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Financial Supervision Committee is not entitled to such deep scrutiny as far as public companies are concerned, even though, of course, approval of the prospectus and admission are subject to the decisions of the Authority and the Financial Supervision Commission. However, according to the applicable law, such internal controls in the company are, of course, the responsibility of the supervisory board and the auditor of the company, and we carry out a sampling of the supervisory control of entities which of course have our consent to comply with the law, and not on the question, as I understand it, has already been proved in the investigation, irregularities, misrepresentation and misrepresentation of information and the presentation of false financial information. So I can say that checks are covered by both investment funds and investment fund associations... as well as brokerage houses that are authorized by the board. However, due to the number of these entities, it is not physically possible for all entities to be checked regularly within two to three years. If I may answer your second question, Mr. Marshal... The Office of the Financial Supervision Commission, following the change of its members at the turn of 2018 and 2019, carries out audits of the Internal Audit Department, as well as the reorganisation arising precisely from the situation related to GetBack and irregularities that occurred in that company. I can say that at the moment the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority is subject to quite significant restructuring of both staff and organisational. This reorganisation shall also cover the control and supervisory processes which the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission operates.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u205	Since when do you carry out these audits? And is what you said, personal changes and, as I understand it, internal changes related to this situation, namely the lack of supervision of GetBack, or any other situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u206	If I may reply... the indications of the results of the internal audit... The Internal Audit Department was established at the end of 2019 by the new Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. These personal changes are the result of both audit indications and the necessary organisational and substantive changes at the office. They are not closely and directly related to the subject of this meeting, this item of the meeting, but result from our observations and audit recommendations concerning the conduct of control and supervisory activities in the financial market.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u207	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Good. And I understand that... I take it the marshal wants to ask you a question? Again... yeah, another one. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u208	I understand that after the results of this audit, you are not yet able to answer why there has been no control for five years. Because you actually answered in a very general way: we had a lot of work and a lot of operators to control. But was there an irregularity in this case concerning the lack of control that the audit saw or not? Was this because of the strain of work and the inability of the office to carry out such checks in financial institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u209	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u210	To answer Mr. Marshal's question, the results of the audit and the changes we're making don't indicate negligence. The lack of control of this company over a period of 5 years was not due to negligence, this is not an indication of an audit. But the whole surveillance system and the entire control system is being rebuilt and it's supposed to be more effective. This is, of course, based on the situation of previous years, which had to do with offering bonds and shares of GetBack. I have one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u211	One more question. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u212	Another question, one more question. I would like to get closer to what was happening, and I am getting closer. Tell me if there's a signal coming into the office that things are bad in GetBack. That's not true, that's a lie. If so, when did that signal come in? It's the so-called. A whistleblower.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u213	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u214	I'm sorry, I can't quote the exact date right now, but of course the so-called information. the whistleblower has entered the office as well as other offices of the state authorities. I would like to say that all the signals are analysed by the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority in terms of validity. Such notifications are affected by a great deal and we cannot afford to initiate investigations or administrative procedures on the basis of each notification without delay. First, we need to gather the material, check the subject, which is the subject of such a notification. The Financial Supervision Authority has initiated control and supervisory actions vis-à-vis entities as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u215	Thank you very much. May I, Mr. Marshal? There you go, Mr. Marshal, we have time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u216	Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to answer me in writing. In writing. I understand you don't remember when that signal came in, so I'd ask you to answer in writing. When did that signal come in, and were there any other signals? When did you start the procedure? Because I'd like to know what time it was... In writing. It's written down. ...how long it's been from signal to procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u217	Are there any more questions for the president? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I inform you that representatives of the government have undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Jack Bury and once again Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The KNF representative will respond to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Did I name them all? Yes. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... The first is Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u218	The GetBack case, and basically the GetBack scandal, is of great social importance. This is a situation that weakens faith in the institutions of the State, because if the authorities called upon to react quickly, this situation could be avoided on such a scale. And the first information, a signal to the Financial Supervision Commission, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Securities Exchange was in December 2017. In November 2016, they knew everything. According to the report by NIK it was December 2017. If this was known before, in my opinion the problem and responsibility of the state authorities are greater. The sale of these toxic bonds was the largest at the turn of 2017 and 2018. Therefore, I think we have the right to ask questions and find out what happened until then. What happened? We hear that these omissions were not deliberate omissions. As long as there's no other evidence until there's prosecutor's evidence, you have to believe it. I have to say, it was cleverly thought out. The very name GetBack is very close to Get Bank, and there is a bank that has similar name. I'm sure a lot of people thought he was putting his money in the bank, the more that those bonds, assets were sold through banks, through the bank's agenda. 2.5 billion... The half billion you've been talking about are losses calculated according to the Penal Code in terms of private individuals, and 2.5 billion in terms of other banks, entities that have also been involved in this type of investment. And what did it turn out to be? That it's just a financial pyramid. I heard these claims and allegations that there was not a timely reaction to Amber Gold, where the losses were, as calculated, at the level of 800 million, i.e. many times lower. And rightfully, there were those charges. But I don't really understand why there was another, many times bigger, after this incident, Amber Gold. Well, it shows that the authorities of the state, of this country, which was supposed to be efficient, strong, are not functioning. Of course, the D.A.'s office came in here, but the D.A.'s office basically goes in ex post when things have already happened. It will be difficult to recover the funds that Polish citizens have invested. Preventive action is important. I repeat: I was really sure that nothing like this could happen in Poland after Amber Gold's affair, nothing like that would happen. Why wasn't there any control? Why didn't the committee, the KNF office control it? Why wasn't anybody interested? Maybe that's why And I suspect that because of the fact that this financial pyramid, which benefited from the naivety of Poles, supported the media of the ruling party, supported the media of Law and Justice. She supported the Polish Gazeta, the Network, the Television Republic, the Things. And that way, by paying that kind of fry, she could function. I think this issue should also be investigated by the D.A. Did it affect the fact that for 5 years the KNF office did not control this institution at all? I know what the political situation is. If an institution is associated with a particular political party, it is very often not wanted to be involved and is considered to be a honesty pass. I believe that the amount of damage that this pyramid has caused to Polish citizens, as well as institutions, undoubtedly the political connection with the current rulers... I mean, there were letters and stuff. with requests for assistance, threatening at all, not only with requests for assistance, but also with threats, statements by the head of this institution that they have worked together on this and on this issue... All of this should lead to the case being dealt with by the Sejm Committee of Investigation. The Senate cannot appoint such a committee. In my opinion, this matter will not be fully resolved unless a committee of inquiry is set up in the Sejm, where all the groups, all of them, and not just the governing group, will have an impact on the assessment of this situation, on the assessment of the reasons for this situation, because this is important. If we do not assess the causes of this situation, I am afraid that another such GetBack may appear in the future. And again, people will be deceived, trained, and then they will wait many years for some means to be recovered from these criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. District Attorney! I'm not a lawyer, partly a financier, so to speak, artificially made by Professor Gilowska once. I had to cover for her when she came in here and I learned a little bit. I'm a mathematician. And to be my speech will be a little modest when it comes to professional language, but I will try to express a few facts. Well, I encountered such a case of a company from Krakow, a very modest company, who sold bike bells. The company's capital is about 300,000, some kind of raccoon. And what does it turn out to be? The company issues bonds for the sum of PLN 2.5 million. I thought I'd been alive for so many years, and I haven't had that idea yet. Of course, the company somehow sold those bonds through brokers. And what did it turn out to be? After a while, when the term so called expired. the maturity of the bonds, the company was gone. The search isn't easy for us, because it's personal data and other... After almost a year, the company was found, and when it was found, it turned out that after a while it disappeared again for the following year. Then I decided to decipher the legal mechanism that allowed the construction of such a series of events. It is that the issuer who sells the bonds so-called. The bondholders, they have special rights, which I don't think are so popular about, that if they fail to buy bonds at a certain time, securities, although these are material bonds, corporate bonds, not government bonds, then those who bought them and can't get their money back, imagine, do not have the right to go to court or the prosecution, I'm no longer sure, with the accusation that irregularities are happening. Who can perform? There may be an issuer. And this is where a little bit of my hair came in vertical. How is that possible? How did such regulations ever happen to pass through the Sejm, the Senate, the various lawyers here? This is one of the points that led me to a fairly thorough study of this problem. And let me... read a little bit, it'll be faster at the same time. Well, considering the problems of GetBack SA, it is easy to see that their measurable part is reduced to the ability to use gaps and gaps in the correct identification of the risk of bonds, whose functioning requires compliance with at least several principles and saving criteria, such as... And here's what I'm going to do. This is going to be some kind of bond risk decalogue. One. In any event, the actual beneficiary of the issue of the bonds, the natural or legal person having a direct financial advantage in the event of the issue being made effective and of access to cash, should be identified. It's not always an issuer. Two. The beneficial owner should be liable without limitation for the redemption of the bonds and the payment of interest. In case of use of the so-called. the issuing entity, the special purpose company acting as the issuer, the beneficial owner should guarantee and guarantee the repayment of the emission liabilities without limitation as to the amount or time limit. Three. Where funds are used for investments in fixed assets, immovable property, movable property, equity rights, the acquired property should be charged with a mortgage or a registered pledge to cover the claims of the bondholders respectively. Four. In any event, the issue of bonds should be secured by a blank note issued to the bond holder or the collateral administrator in order to simplify and reduce the cost of redress in the absence of redemption of the bonds within the deadline. It's something we're dealing with. In any case, the establishment of a security administrator shall require a declaration of compliance with the execution of the issuer, guarantor, guarantor under Article. 777 of the Civil Procedure Code for the administrator of the pledge or mortgage. In the event of the establishment of a mortgage in kind, a registered pledge on movables or property rights under the terms of issue should be subject to a change of the administrator subject to the agreement of the bondholders. It's gone now. Come on. The establishment of collateral in kind should be preceded by the valuation of the assets charged by an independent asset valuer. The emission conditions should provide for regular verification of the value of the collateral. A deposit shall be required to cover the costs of the security administrator and the experts responsible for updating the value of the security. Issuers should be explicitly suggested to select a security administrator from a circle of entities experienced in monitoring the value of collateral and trust offering bonds. At present, this is done freely. It's just one set. Now, here's a comment. Supervisory authorities focus heavily on sales processes and the risk of misselling, i.e. the sale of defective bonds. Consumer awareness is important, but the underlying problems lie in the bond law and the weaknesses in risk assessment processes by brokerage houses. This is a very serious matter. In my view, the rules still do not sufficiently protect consumers. Here are some examples. Well, bond issuers can freely change security administrators without the consent of bond holders, and then we don't know who we're talking to if we bought the bonds. Next point. There is no obligation to disclose new administrators in perpetual accounts with mortgage collateral. Next point. The initiative to convene a meeting of bondholders remains in the hands of the issuer, while consideration should be given to giving such power to security administrators and reducing to 5% It's a proposal to set up a series of bonds with the power to convene a meeting by the bondholders. They can't do that at all right now. And now two notes. Is it considered to lay down statutory requirements for qualifications and introduce mandatory insurance for the activities of security administrators? Currently, this function can be performed by basically anyone and in crisis situations, fictional actors appear in this role. Has the introduction of a mandatory minimum of equity capital, own funds for issuers been considered? There are cases of companies issuing bonds with symbolic capital This is the first case I was talking about. where the amounts of emissions are expressed in millions. We've got $300,000, we're issuing a five-million-dollar bond file, and we're gone. This is possible at the moment. The above-mentioned record examples seriously increase the risk of the consumer, who, when buying bonds, rarely has the opportunity to assess the issuer's risk on its own. And one last comment. The corporate bond market has to go through purgatory. Since the market has not been able to eliminate black sheep on its own, it is necessary to enforce basic standards in shaping market practices if the paper is addressed to consumers, especially in private issues. And it's not just about raising the minimum amount... Mr. Senator, 10 minutes are up. Last sentence. That's the last sentence, please. ...the minimum amount that a single investor can invest, otherwise there is a good chance that crisis situations will recur. Amber Gold, SK Bank, SKOK Volomin and GetBack is a kind of carbon footprint of the Polish corporate market. Efforts must be made to ensure that such situations do not recur and that people, and with them the state, are not the victims of dishonest issuers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In this part of my speech I wanted to talk about the corporate bond market, so thank you for saying this to my previous speaker, because he has already done a very thorough analysis of this problem. During our discussion there was information about a difference between 500 million PLN of assets secured by the prosecutor's office and the diagnosis of funds involved in the paper, in bonds and in GetBack shares at the level of 2.5 billion PLN. As far as I know, but I will still ask for written information from the Minister of Finance, it appears that this difference can be based on the fact that among the victims there are not only natural persons, but also entities such as. banks, including banks of the State Treasury, which bought these financial instruments. Besides, it can be not only banks, but also other institutionally injured people. So here I will also ask for written information on the list of victims in this regard. The most important thing in this discussion is, unfortunately, what we have to say to ourselves, and what the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber shows in a very precise way, that not all state institutions have stood up to the task. And I'd be the last one here... Mr. D.A., Deputy Attorney General, is no longer here, but the D.A.'s office is certainly not going to judge us right now. We're only gonna judge her after she puts the indictment in court and the court comes to these indictments. Is it possible, in colloquially speaking, for the prosecution to convince the court of its position? And in practice, how many of these secured funds have a chance to reach those who are injured? But when one hears such information that in the case of GetBack, in 2014 and 2017 the company's assets increased from PLN 300 million to PLN 2 billion 300 million, while at the same time the company's liabilities increased from PLN 223 million to nearly PLN 3 billion, i.e. the assets grew eight times, and 13 times its liabilities were in the context of the duties that had previously been borne by the Financial Supervision Commission, later on by the Financial Supervision Authority, and the lack of these controls... This is, of course, a situation that should not have happened, because in practice it has also led to the fact that today the list of victims is longer. What we need to talk about is also that in the case of this case, I will no longer mention the name of one bank in particular. We can say that customers who went to banks were faced with practices that undermine their collective interests, consumers' interests. They were misled when offering the company's bonds because the bank offered its customers high-risk products which did not meet their needs in any way. The illegal practice of misselling, as the Minister said, confirms the evidence collected, including hundreds of accounts of injured customers. Corporate bonds have even been offered to customers who have never dealt with and were not interested in investment products and have so far kept their savings on bank deposits. I myself met with a group of people injured in this affair and they simply said that when buying corporate bonds, they were convinced that they were buying state bonds, Polish state bonds, bonds equally secured. This shows, of course, not only the lack of information, because it did not reach the client, but also the way of communication, and basically the lack of communication from those who invested in these papers. We must remember that the bank should be seen as an institution of public trust. There was no reliable matching of the product offered to the customer's needs, including its individual risk profile. After all, banks, which are professional players, have a particular responsibility for consumers whose financial resources are the foundation of their existence. This activity requires absolutely highest ethical standards. And in this case, We can tell ourselves that at least one bank We are already talking about it, it is indicated in the decision of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, using the ignorance of customers to sell them a risky investment product such as corporate bonds. And what today is the challenge facing all state institutions is to do absolutely everything to make as many of these funds as possible, of the assets that are secured today, to those who are injured in this affair. And if our discussion could also serve something, it would certainly be to send a message to all public institutions regarding the full commitment and determination to this issue, and, in some part, the educational value that is undoubtedly still needed, so that in the future as few people as possible will be affected by the situation faced by the group of victims in the GetBack case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u223	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Władysław Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister, Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba, like to speak again? Minister? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, the question to the Minister is, do you, Minister... No. Thank you very much. In that case, thank you very much to the Minister for giving the Senate the information. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the examination... There was also a matter of written answers... Well, she was, Mr. Senator, but you weren't there when I was. I've read it. I also mentioned your name so that you could be calm, no one left you out. Mr. Marshal... Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u224	Mr. Marshal, High Chamber, I'd like to report... In what mode? It's a formal conclusion. Oh, here you go. I would like to make a formal request on the agenda to move the item 20, i.e. changes in the membership of the Senate committees, to the session in two weeks' time. I'm here after talking to the club president, Senator Martynowski. Yeah, he warned me, he told me about it. There's a general agreement on that, and I'd really like to ask for your permission...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u225	Yes, thank you very much. If I don't hear any objection, I'll take it the senator's proposal has been accepted. I can't hear you. Acknowledged. Thank you very much. We're coming... Can we proceed to the next point? We can. We can. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. The text of the Act is contained in print No 36 and the report of the Commission In print No 36 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Sejm Act on additional annual cash provision for pensioners and pensioners of the Senate committee discussed at its meeting on 30 January this year. And here we have to say that, contrary to the title of this law, this additional annual cash benefit includes not only pensioners and pensioners, but also persons who receive bridge pensions, benefits and pre-retirement benefits, social pensions, structural pensions, teacher compensation benefits, war and military disability pensions and parental supplementary benefits, granted to 17 categories of eligible. In view of the above, we voted on the proposal of the Legislative Office to change the name of this law to the And with this amendment, we submit this bill to the senators for their approval. I must also say that this benefit, which includes such a large group of persons, is a benefit free from any bail-in obligations, from additional debts, loans, no one is to be taken away from this benefit or from the cash. This benefit does not affect the amount of the averages that entitle people to use, for example. from a maintenance fund or from a housing allowance, from any social assistance allowance, from social assistance. So this is actually an additional cash injection, which on 1 April all the people mentioned by me will receive. During the debate on this bill, none of the senators questioned the purpose and the need to pay this benefit. What raised widespread doubts is the place where the funds are spent for this purpose. There is a Solidarity Fund, which is actually the main income of which is the solidarity tribute, which you will remember, in the previous parliamentary term, in the form of an additional tax for people who earn more than PLN 1 million per year. And that was the means to fully secure the needs of people with disabilities. So, all these shortcomings that result from the imperfections of our law, maybe not the richest state money... And securing these needs for this environment is certainly a matter of course to be done. And there's no doubt here that it's the right thing to do. It goes on for example. to compensate for the care provision for those who have taken care of adults so far. As you know, after protests by people with disabilities in the Sejm, the benefits for those caring for children have increased, but at the same level It will start with lower benefits for people who take care of adults with disabilities. The Constitutional Tribunal declared this inequality unconstitutional in 2014. So far, we have no enforcement of this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, so people who care for adults with disabilities receive much, much lower care benefits. We believe that this Solidarity Fund would be a place from which funds could be obtained to compensate for these disparities. We hear a lot from people with disabilities about the need for rest leave, about assisted housing, about a whole range of things and behaviours that are needed and for which money would be needed from this fund. In the meantime, the Solidarity Fund, from the solidarity tribute, according to Minister Swede's information, the income of this fund is PLN 1.5 billion per year. It is intended to pay this additional benefit to all the people I spoke about at the beginning, at the amount of nearly PLN 12 billion. The difference is to be covered by a loan from a demographic fund, which, according to many debaters in committee proceedings, is not a good solution. Pensions and pensions should be covered from the place where pensions are paid, i.e. from insurance funds, insurance funds, insurance funds, ZUS, KRUS, appropriate funds that have uniformed services in their security schemes. That was the amendment made by a group of senators. It was accepted and we propose this amendment to you. We believe that the Solidarity Fund cannot be a source of financing for needs such as supplementary pension benefits. A proposal has also been submitted to the High House in the form of a minority proposal, namely a proposal to adopt this law without amendments. We therefore have a recommendation from the committee to accept all the amendments proposed by the Senate Committee, and a request from the minority not to accept any amendments, i.e. to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u227	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, Senator Richard Majer, to present a request for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My venerable previous speaker, Madam Kochan, discussed the events of the committee meeting, spoke of a common conviction about the sources of funding for this bill. But this idea of universality is not correct, because here is the minority's conclusion. So if this thinking were so common, then the minority proposal would not be. I therefore ask for some precision in the narrative of the events that took place at the committee meeting. Indeed, we are applying, Dear State, High Senate, for us to adopt this Act on additional cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners in the form that the Government of Law and Justice has submitted, because this wording, Dear State, guarantees the possibility of payment of these funds. If, of course, aside from minor amendments, and one should include a change of title... My previous speaker spoke about this title being slightly different. We are attached to how it was last year, this title also has some social connotations, but we could not insist on it, it does not matter that much. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we are starting to question one of the basic sources of funding for this benefit, this additional annual benefit, this means, dear lady, that we are really questioning the entire programme. And if we cut out an article from this bill. 14, as the majority of the family committee is suggesting at the moment, we will actually say to almost 10 million pensioners who are waiting to receive an additional annual benefit in April that we will not pay them this benefit, Dear State. So I encourage you to reflect. If we say we want to pay something, we have to be pragmatic. The government, when building the bill, uses the legal resources it has at its disposal. And since we have the Solidarity Fund, which is a source of funding, among others. The additional annual benefit is, Dear Member State, the notion that it should not be an annual benefit is a distortion of law. Now that we've changed the bill on this solidarity tribute at our previous meetings... Because the law on this matter has been amended and at the moment we have the situation in law that the Solidarity Fund is a source of funding for the thirteenth pension. And following this line of law, the government wants to benefit from this source. Of course, the comments of the majority of the committee can be considered very valuable, but following this, Dear State, would have to lead to a change in the Solidarity Fund Act, and as a result or in the final, we would also question the entire act on additional financial provision for pensioners and pensioners, because as if we had cut out its basic element, the source of funding, i.e. almost or more than PLN 10 billion, which is based on this Solidarity Fund and on a loan from the demographic reserve. The government presents, Dear State, a draft law in a clear way, which guarantees more than 9 million people receiving pensions and pensions the payment of the amount, as my previous speaker said, of PLN 1 000 200 gross. So I ask you to reflect and I ask that we return to the original version of this bill in the course of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u229	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka has asked questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u230	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm directing my question to Senator Lover. Senator, I absolutely agree with you that there is no question about the purpose and the need to grant older people such an allowance as the so-called. Thirteen retired. However, referring to Senator Majer's statement that he was talking about the pragmatics of the government that decided on the sources from which we would finance this thirteen, I would like to ask the senator what the demographic fund is for. I think you have rightly pointed out that this is not a source that we should use for this purpose. And what may be the consequences of taking a loan from this fund? Has the government indicated how this loan will be repaid and how soon? And will this loan be taken a year a year, and if so, for how long and when it will be repaid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u231	Mrs. Senator, it's true that the Demographic Reserve Fund, because that's exactly what it's called, is the main source of funding for this extra benefit for pensioners and pensioners. The loan there is 9 billion PLN and is to be repaid within 10 years. Of what? From the Solidarity Fund, I believe, because we did not get a precise, precise answer to this question. Anyway, it's a 10-year loan paid out by the Solidarity Fund to the Demographic Reserve Fund. The latter was created so that we could be sure of our pensions and pensions when we have to... when we live to the age when we retire. The whole social security system in our country is based on the fact that the money paid to today's pensioners is physically earned by those who work. Today's employer and today's employee, paying pension contributions to the Social Insurance Fund, maintain today's pensioners and pensioners. Therefore, the more people work and the less they retire, the better it is to secure those who remain in retirement and the less burden on those who are currently working. As proportions change and change, because we live longer and longer, we live longer and longer, and more and more of us remain retired in proportion to those who are currently working, it is becoming quite difficult. As you know, the burden on our jobs... We talk about it all the time. The contributions to the Social Insurance Institution are too high. Employers complain, workers complain. But the truth is that there is an increasing gap between those who are retired and those who work for these pensions. And the Demographic Reserve Fund was created when we all realized how worse demography is in Poland, how fewer and fewer children are born, how more and more difficult it is for generations to replace, and that we need to ensure that today, working or entering the labour market, they are sure that if they work for their retirement, they will have it paid regardless of the number of people working. This is a fund that we should reach out to when the proportion between people in retirement and pensions and those working will be at the disadvantage of the latter. And that's why there's such a reluctance to reach out to this fund for everyone who really thinks with responsibility about future generations. How will this permanent benefit be financed? Because if we accept these rules, and there was no doubt here... And I will also address Senator Majer. I told you that universal approval is due to the fact that the constancy of this witness is being implemented, but it is no longer commonplace for us to finance it this year... Maybe I wasn't specific. I'm sorry. What we are concerned about is that this fund, which is severely damaged, will not guarantee the sustainability of pension payments for today's working young people entering the labour market. And one more thing, this one's already strictly political, not substantive. Well, it's an accounting procedure. In fact, some talk about accounting acrobatics is used to say: the state budget for 2020 is balanced. And that's not true. The 9 billion that we borrow from the Demographic Reserve Fund and put into the Solidarity Fund shows that there is a first imbalance between a sustainable budget and a real budget. This is an accountant's procedure that really washes your eyes. All of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u232	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I'd like to make up for... There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u233	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Senator, it seems to me that it's crazy for pensioners and pensioners to have this record that it's a permanent addition... that this supplement is actually a permanent addition. What's the situation gonna be like next year? This year we are taking 9 billion from the demographic reserve, which we will have to pay for 10 years from the Solidarity Fund. Next year, we're gonna start paying off, and we're probably gonna have zero in the demographic fund. Did the government indicate how we will finance this supplement in the following years?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u234	This supplement is permanently introduced. If we accept the solutions contained in this bill... yes, it is a permanent witness, every year at the end of March paid to the crowds I spoke about. They are not only pensioners and pensioners, but also other persons indicated in this bill. A permanent source of funding? State budget. Since we accept a solution that tells all pensioners and rencistoms Not only but mainly addressed to them is this benefit The fact that this benefit will be introduced permanently means that we must constantly take care of the expenditure for this purpose in the subsequent budgets of the State. But what is the proposal to finance this kind of benefit, there was no mention of it. In any case, today, during the committee's proceedings, we have been informed that 9 billion, for 10 years and that annual payments will be made to the Demographic Reserve Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u235	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Yes, they are. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You are trying, I do not know, to castrate this law in a way, namely you are proposing in your amendments to delete the article. 19 and Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Art. 14 clearly states from which fund It is from the Solidarity Fund that these additional cash benefits, i.e., let's face it, the thirteenth pension, will be financed. And that's what ensures the stability of funding. If you disable this article, then... tell me, what money, what funds will these benefits be financed from then, and will it be more stable? As I understand it, I can...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u237	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, pensions and pensions are paid from the FUS. The 13th pension should be financed from this place. It's very simple. And the fact that this is a proposal for an amendment means only that... if the Social Insurance Institution is adapted to this and properly implementing this law, it will reach for money to the Solidarity Fund, which must reach the Demographic Reserve Fund in advance... Think of what it's like to have a fund that has an income of 1.5 billion, and it's taking 10 years to make a loan out of the Demography Reserve Fund of 9 billion. If it was a citizen who had a million and a half a year's income, of course I'm subtracting zeros about billions and he wants to borrow $9 million for 10 years, he'd be in trouble. And here we don't have any trouble. Moreover, the Demographic Reserve Fund is to secure the pensions and pensions of those who enter or have not yet entered the labour market. Because if they retire, the proportion of people who are retired to those who work will be to the detriment of those who work much. Then we will either face the choice of either raising the cost of each job or reducing the pension. And so we think, if we're talking about the 13th pension, that you need to reach for money where all pensions have their source of funding, that is, the Social Insurance Fund. Not to the Demographic Reserve Fund, because your granddaughter, my grandson or my granddaughter won't have proper insurance for their retirement. That's the first thing. And the second thing is what we're talking about. Why are we so hard to admit that today we cannot talk about a balanced budget? Because these accounting tricks are actually clouding the picture. We lack 9 billion zlotys for the promised and kept, there is no doubt about the 13th pension promise. Let's pay her out of where we pay all our pensions. It is clear and clear that then it would have to be added from the state budget Sorry about the colloquialism. Bigger money. It would have to be, but it would have been clear and legible. Let us not rob our youngest citizens from the perspective of a good retirement. If you don't mind, Marshal, I'll ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u239	Excuse me. Thank you, ma'am. Do you want to ask more questions, Senator? Of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We don't understand each other. I'm not asking about the facts, I'm asking about the contents of the bill. Maybe it'll be easier. 14. Like all the ornaments they say. about what the body really pays not only ZUS, but also KRUS, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, etc.. A sense of art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is the statement: the additional annual cash benefit and the cost of handling it are financed by... Here is the indicated source of funding. It's not the authority that makes the decision, it's the source of funding. If you delete this article, tell me, where is this wording in the rest of the bill, the unselected one? It's a very simple question. Because if he's not here, you don't point to the source of funding. And if so, then this whole bill, which obviously makes sense, you're undermining the basics because it doesn't have a permanent source of funding. Is that so hard to understand? Where is this wording in this law, except for Article. 14?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u241	Thank you very much. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u242	Mr. Senator, the title of this law is: "an additional annual cash benefit for pensioners and pensioners." End of title. Subject of the Act: Retirement and pension benefits under the general scheme - entitled to these benefits - are entitled to the payment of this benefit, which is called the annual pension benefit for pensioners and pensioners - bridge pensions; benefits and pre-retirement benefits; social benefits; structural pensions • KRUS; teachers' benefits; pensions of war and military invalids; parental benefits... There are 17 categories of benefits entitled up to those who have supplementary parental benefits. You're talking to me about correct legislation. I agree. But is correct legislation such as the law that provides for the payment of all these benefits as pensions? If we are talking about correct legislation, Senator, it is really worth considering whether we should pay pensions from the Solidarity Fund. Agreed, solidarity with war and military invalids is absolutely necessary. However, isn't this a different source than pensions? Is that consistent with the title of the bill? Does the senator recognize that a fund with 1.5 billion zlotys of annual income can borrow 9 billion dollars? Where is the answer to the question in which we assured people with disabilities that And the solidarity tribute is the basis for the income of the Solidarity Fund and their needs will be secured? It was the Senate who proposed the strict importance of the money from the solidarity tribute, solely for the needs of people with disabilities and their families, because whole families are ill and they need help. This was rejected by the Sejm. You're asking me today where to get the money for it. No, I didn't ask how. Yes, they must not be taken from the Demographic Reserve Fund, they must be paid according to the title of the Act from those sources from which we pay pensions and pensions. We should not talk about correct legislation today, I think, because from the title to the sources of funding for benefits that go far beyond the title of the law, we should really say a lot of bad words. The truth is, where there are pensions and pensions, there are 13 pensions. Where there is a low social benefit, there must be a source of payment of this benefit from social funds. Where we're talking about maintenance funds... Let us all consider whether it is not time to change the law, to the law on how to help people we want to help and who need to be helped, how to help them really, not through the thirteenth pension, but for example. by increasing the tax-free amount or exempting the lowest pensions from income tax. On the one hand, we take this income tax away from them, and on the other hand, we give it to them from the other pocket. Why do we need these flows if it could be a lot easier? Yes, in our opinion, the source of funding for the 13th pension and pension should be the Social Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u243	Thank you very much. Even before I give the senator the floor, I would ask, Senator, if it were to be a longer statement, so that it would be a voice in the debate. Unless that's one more question. But he doesn't ask very much. Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind, at this very act, because she's very important and she has to be, let's call it, complete... There you go, Mr. Senator. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u244	Let me ask you a question again, the third time. Well, Senator, I don't want you teaching here and such God-fearing statements that... Mr. Senator, I would very much ask you to come to the question... And I would ask you to... There's one minute for that, and please... I'll fit in if you don't interrupt me. Let's get back to the thought. It's not really about you explaining the meaning of this bill, because we all agree that this law is meant to ensure the continuity of funding. If so, it must be the source of this, because if we do not indicate the source, then there will be no stability. This is obvious as the construction of the cepa. This is precisely the point that the state, by removing, in a sense without further reflection, certain provisions of this law, this main objective of the law, that is, the persistence of the funding, is also the removal of the State. I understand what these flows are... the Solidarity Fund, who makes up for it, etc. I have a very simple question and ask them again: where is the wording, which in a legal way determines what funds are paid so-called. The 13th pension because it's already historically fixed? The additional annual cash benefit and the cost of handling it shall be financed by means of... And this is where these measures are listed. If you do not write this in the law, there will be no legal basis, it will not be known on the basis of which it can be financed. That's why I'm asking. If... One minute. It's gone. ...maybe in the contents of the rest of the bill, except for the article. 14, it is written, then I will agree, I will not be shredded, but if it is not, please at least this one amendment and the accompanying amendment concerning the deletion of the article. Remove 19. Well, without that, the bill is just lame. As for the title, everyone's used to calling it a 13th pension, and that's how it's gonna be called.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u245	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator. I'm sending the senator back to the article. 17. Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u246	I think it is right that Senator Czerwiński asks the question of how we will secure funding for the years of this permanent supplement. Hence my question: is the Social Insurance Fund Act listed, what is the purpose of this fund? Is it stated there that it is a source of funding for just such benefits for pensioners and pensioners? May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u247	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u248	The Social Insurance Fund was set up to pay out social security, which is undoubtedly pensions and pensions. And I understand that it is advisable that this is the source of funding for this type of project. Yeah, that kind of thing. If that's what the senator calls it. What are pensions and pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u249	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I see Minister Swede. I ask the Minister to present the position of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The bill has been presented, but let me give you some additional comments on the project itself. The most important information is that we introduce an annual additional benefit for pensioners and pensioners, so-called. The thirteenth pension, which will be permanently included in the bill and will be, so to speak, was no longer in force once, as it was in the previous year, but annually. The Act concerns pensioners and other persons who are listed in the Act and who will benefit from this additional benefit. The total number of eligible persons is 9 million 800 thousand. The cost to finance this benefit in 2020 is almost PLN 11 million 800 thousand. We assume that the amount of the lowest benefit, which is the minimum pension that we will be discussing in the next item, will be PLN 1 000 200 gross. This gross amount shall be received by each of the eligible persons. This is less than PLN 1 thousand per hand. The funds will be paid from the Solidarity Fund. As regards the statements of the senators, this is the only source of funding for this benefit mentioned in the Act. So the adoption of the amendment, which is proposed by the High Senate, will cause us to have no source of funding for the bill. This is the only source we can use. If we want to adopt this law, we must adopt it in the form in which it is now, because the source of funding is the Solidarity Fund. Now a few comments on the discussion on the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund can be powered from various sources, including: from grants and borrowings. We used the borrowing mechanism. In this case, the Solidarity Fund is provided with a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. A rather long discussion was held on the Demographic Reserve Fund. Maybe I can give you a little bit of what proportions we're talking about. By setting up the Demographic Reserve Fund in 1998, we assumed that it would be a fund that would eventually allow us to finance pensions as if the state's finances were bad. Well, that didn't happen. Today, the Demographic Reserve Fund accounts for less than PLN 46 billion. This is the amount that in the last three years... There was more revenue for the Social Insurance Fund. Over the last three years, 45 billion more funds have been made available to the Social Insurance Fund. This results, among others. from good economic growth, wage increases, etc. So that's the ratio: in 3 years, revenues have increased by PLN 45 billion and the entire fund has since 1998. Today, this fund is at PLN 46 billion. This year's expenditure of the Social Insurance Fund You will have the opportunity to discuss this when discussing the state budget That's PLN 261 billion. This is the annual turnover of the Social Insurance Fund: revenue So that's what we're talking about. So today, without providing a fixed source of insurance premiums plus a grant from the state budget, the Social Insurance Fund could not function. In this year's budget, the grant from the state budget to the Social Insurance Fund amounts to PLN 33 billion 500 million. And that's the average level, so to speak. There were years where subsidies were even higher. What is worth emphasising, as far as the Demographic Reserve Fund is concerned, is that it works just as well as the Solidarity Fund. He borrows loans, he can borrow loans... In this case, We've identified the Demographic Reserve Fund. It happened once in history that the Social Insurance Fund borrowed a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. It was the only case in those years that the reserve fund had granted the loan. This operation concerning the Solidarity Fund, which we carried out last year, i.e. 2019... This was covered by the Social Insurance Fund, because there was a surplus in relation to the draft state budget, i.e. in 2019 the Demographic Reserve Fund came to zero. There's no loss there in the sense that we borrowed a loan because this loan was paid off. So it's kind of like this debate about the Solidarity Fund. Now the Solidarity Fund will sort of borrow a ten-year loan. The first repayment is in 2023 and for the next 10 years this loan will be repaid. And the sources of funding may vary. It could be a grant, it could be, and it's included in the Solidarity Fund, solidarity tribute, that's what the president was talking about. For revenue above PLN 1 million, these 4% , and there may be other sources that may be funding the Solidarity Fund. So that at the moment there is no concern that there will be no funds available to finance this year or in the following years the actions that we are undertaking in connection with the thirteenth pension. But today in this act, the source of funding is the Solidarity Fund, and there is no other fund available today, especially since we are already with the Senate law, so we would have to find in the budget a source of funding that we do not have. So that's all I can say here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u251	Thank you very much. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am sorry to bother you, but I would like the authors of these amendments to understand that this is how they really blow up this bill. They don't blow anything up. Of course I do. I'm talking about this art. 14. A law may be adopted without this article and its related article. 19, only the effect will be that we will have to update it and this payment will not be possible in April, just, let's assume, in September, because it will come down to that. Is my reasoning correct? And second question, a completely different nature. Namely in the article. 2 are mentioned in the various categories of persons who will be able to enjoy the benefits of this law. But there is one category that I would like to remind the Minister of, namely those deported to forced labour, mainly by the occupier to the Third Reich. They're usually very fancy, very old people at the moment. They are not listed here, and they receive And that's what's most important. It's a permanent benefit. It is small, but these people receive a permanent benefit added to the paid pensions associated with this slave work. Wouldn't it be possible to add them here? There are few, this is a relatively narrow group and, as I say, dying out. Well, we'd just make a gesture to those people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u253	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u254	To answer the senator's question, referring to the other part... I don't know if I got it right, but if these people take pension benefits, they're obviously entitled to this allowance, then they're definitely, unless they're people who aren't entitled to a pension, and they get, for example. supplement. Well, the repressives are currently receiving 400 zł of the allowance and may happen to the person who does not have a pension or a pension. It would not be covered by this regulation. If it has a benefit, it is covered. We'd have to ask around here after the meeting. As far as this financial issue is concerned, once again, if the only source of this act is the Solidarity Fund, the deletion of this point will result in the fact that we will not have the source of funding for this law and will not be able to cover the expenditure we want to implement on 1 April. There is no other answer here, there is simply no answer, all the more so because, as I said in the final statement, there is no possibility of amending the state budget at the level of the Sejm, because this is competence Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u255	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u256	Minister, although you explained how the reserves are being issued, how the fund is financed, how the funds reach the Social Insurance Fund, you have been mixing these names all along, but I understand from what you have said that in the last 3 years 46 billion PLN has been added to the Social Insurance Fund. Yes? Yes. Now I have a question. If there's additional resources, how do we divide them into three parts... Because you said it happened in three years, so it was an average of 12 billion a year. Why, then, Isn't that the fund that's designated as the source of funding, we're just putting demographic reserves at risk? It is not enough that we expose these pensioners and pensioners to the fact that next year there will be no resources for this, because in Poland, Minister, stagnation begins, there is less and less economic development and it may turn out that next year there will be no money at all. How are we gonna explain to these pensioners that they're not gonna get the money? Pensioners and pensioners want to be calm about it and know that the source for which they can be calm is the Social Insurance Fund, not the demographic reserve, not any uncertain loans. Why can't we transfer the 46 billion additionally to this purpose?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u257	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u258	In both cases, which the senator says is an acceptable grant from the state budget. In the case of the Social Insurance Fund, a grant is admissible, which falls under the expenditure rule and charges the entire budget of the State, but the grant may also be allocated to the Solidarity Fund. In this situation, nothing changes for us. For our ministry, the most important are the guarantees for pensioners, i.e. that there are funds for the payment of these benefits, and we guarantee that these funds will be. Whether it's a grant from the state budget or it's a loan, that's the subject for another conversation. For us, it is important that we have a source of funding. The source of funding is the Solidarity Fund and we are paying these funds from this fund. There's no risk of payout for the next few years, because either it's a loan form... If it's what you say it is, so we don't have the resources from the Demographic Reserve Fund, we'll have to find another source. In this case, it may be a grant from the state budget that will affect the Solidarity Fund, because the Solidarity Fund has such an option, so to speak, allows.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u259	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Magdalena is enrolled in the discussion... No. Would any of you like to take part in the discussion? Two senators, Senator Łuczak and Senator Swed, have made speeches to the minutes. No one signed up, so I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on Thursday. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 37 and the report of the Commission In print No 37 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 9 January 2020 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. At its meeting, the Commission examined the text of the Act involving inter alia. Here is the current Minister of Sweden. I would like to remind you that this law concerns the valorisation of pension benefits in 2020. This valorisation introduced a derogation from the valorisation principles set out in the 1998 basic law, which is that, while maintaining the percentage rule for increasing benefits, the rate of valorisation was determined by the guaranteed amount of the increase. For benefits of 29 February 2020, this amount shall not be less than 70 PLN. Mechanism referred to in Article. 5 of this amendment will cover the benefits of general social security, social security for farmers and the provision of services, so-called. uniforms, as well as other accessories. Let me remind you, High Izbo, that this is not the first valorization of benefits that deviated from the 1998 rules. Such derogations were made earlier. The main factor of these derogations was to increase funding for people who have the lowest benefits in our country. E.g. last year, 2019, this was also the amount: not less than 70 PLN. I will also remind you that this law increases from PLN 1 thousand 100 to PLN 1 thousand 200 the lowest pension, a pension for total incapacity and a family pension, as well as from PLN 825 to PLN 900 the lowest gross pension for partial incapacity for work. The High Commission had no doubt as to the support of such a bill. It has been unanimously adopted, there is no minority proposal. I, too, recommend that the High House adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy has been authorised to present the position of the Government. I see that a government representative wishes to speak on the bill under consideration. I'd like to ask you to redeploy your government position.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I thank Senator Majer for his report, for presenting the bill, and I thank the entire committee for supporting the amendment of the bill. I think this is an important change that I hope is making. Already permanently such a valorisation mechanism, which will be a quota-percent advantage, i.e. by increasing the lowest benefits and maintaining the percentage valorisation. In this case, we are talking about 2020, i.e. valorization on 1 March. This mechanism, which we have put in place, secures all persons who receive a gross pension of PLN 2 000 160 in terms of receiving this minimum guaranteed value of PLN 70 gross. If we hadn't introduced such a mechanism... This mechanism concerns 6 million 200 000 pensioners. If we hadn't put in place such a mechanism, these people would have been given an e.g. This would apply to all agricultural pensioners, a valorization of PLN 30.35. Thus, this mechanism ensures that the lowest benefit is increased by PLN 70. At the same time we raise the lowest pension from PLN 1 000 100 to PLN 1 thousand 200. In the last four years, we've raised our minimum pension by almost 40%. This is a big increase compared to previous years. This benefit we are talking about... The cost of this benefit in 2020 is PLN 9 billion 100 million. If we did not apply this mechanism, this cost would be at the level of PLN 7 billion, i.e. the additional funds that we spend on financing valorisation, is less than PLN 2 billion. The remainder of the valorisation will be projected today in the Budget Act at 3.24%. The final rate of valorization will be known in February, when the Central Statistical Office will determine the level of inflation in the previous year. Then the inflation rate will be calculated from that. So thank you for your support. I also hope that the High Senate will adopt this law without amendments, because the 1st of March is the day when valorisation must be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u263	Thank you very much. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than a minute's duration to a representative of the government relating to this agenda. Would any of your senators like to raise such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you very much. We are now entering the debate. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody came forward for discussion. Just for the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on Thursday. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 52 and the committee's report In print No 52 A. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 28 January, a meeting of the Health Committee was held, which examined the Law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and certain other laws. Prints are known to you, senate print No 52 and seymous print No 46, 110, 110 A. The meeting was attended by Undersecretary of State Janusz Cieszyński with colleagues from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The Legal Office's website represented Iwon Kozera-Rytel. The meeting was also attended by the social side, i.e. Mr Marek Wójcik from the Association of Polish Cities, Bartłomiej Zydel from the Association of Polish Cities and a representative of the General Medical Chamber of Milena Dobrzyńska. He was also represented by MON in the people of Mr.Krzysztof Kogiński and Tadeusz Wierzbiński, as well as MSWiA... and here is a rather vague name: Maciej Light. I'm sorry if I turned it. There were also Cezary Zaremba from the Ministry of Internal Affairs Administration and Mariusz Cichoński. The aim of this law is to change the organisational structure of the State Sanitary Inspection and to increase the coordination and supervisory role of the Chief Health Inspector. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński discussed the contested bill and presented the position of the government in this matter. Iwon Kozera-Rytel, a representative of the Legislative Office, submitted comments of a legislative and technical nature. I've filed a motion to reject the bill in its entirety. I motivated this, first of all, against the constitution. In particular, the procedure for adopting amendments is based on Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 119 constitutions. Secondly, the Legislative Office massacred the law in 10 points showed legislative shortcomings that need to be improved. Thirdly, the lack of consultation with local government officials during proceedings in the Sejm. Fourthly, the law has no social aspect, introduces chaos in a well-functioning institution. What's the worst part? Deteriorating co-ordination in the face of a coronavirus threat seems completely pointless. This coronavirus can appear in Poland and it can be so that when this law is implemented, its activity will be peak. I hope he doesn't show up. And one more thing: the elimination of the Department of Home Affairs in the field of health inspection, which seems pointless in a situation of threat to any epidemic. The Commission requests that the law be rejected. A minority of committees have requested the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A minority has submitted a proposal for a law without amendments, based on the fact that this law is intended to introduce faster action and faster communication of information. Due to the fact that... some medical entities were informed about the risk of the coronavirus on 31 January and some of it on 3 February. To avoid such chaos in the face of the threat of an epidemic... If harmonised communication of this information and subordinateity is introduced, there is a chance to act more quickly and more effectively. That's one thing. Another point was that the Legislative Bureau's comments concerned non-compliance with the Constitution. I think it's not the Legislative Office to rule on whether or not the Constitution is compatible, because these are the actions of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's all I'm saying is, "Everything's gonna be okay." We're not commenting. Because there was a discussion about the need for this bill... A minority requests that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u267	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? There you go, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u268	I have a question for Senator Orzechowska, one short question. Will this law, if it comes into force, limit the role of local authorities in terms of impact e.g. to the health inspector of the county? I'm familiar with this kind of centralization. Of course, you said everything would work better, but I don't think it will. As the Senator rapporteur, Professor Alicia Chybicka, said... Well, it's not a good time to make any changes, because we don't know how the situation will develop and we can't sweep this problem under the rug right now. I would like to ask you specifically about the impact on reducing the role of local authorities. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u269	This law will restrict the role of local authorities... These local governments operate very differently and even during recent meetings in the Health Commission we have had the opportunity to see that some local authorities had passed information earlier, some later, and in the event of any epidemiological threats, the speed of transmission of this information is very important. Thank you very much... I'll see if I can... Please. What Professor Chybick said... There were representatives of the town union, but also the county union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u270	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u271	I also have a question for the senator. Mrs. Senator, that's why we have a vacathio legis to guarantee the entry into force of the rules in a real and applicable form. Once again, you are breaking this rule, and once again you want to introduce a law immediately, without vacathio legis. What's the reason? And why do you break that law all the time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u272	About the reason for the introduction... This was not discussed. I think this question can be addressed to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u273	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health was authorised to present the position of the government during the year of parliamentary work. Minister Janusz Cieszyński is in the room. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Please state your position as a government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u274	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Literally a few words about this project and the strong support from the government of the position presented by Senator Orzechowska, that is to say, please accept this project. Ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no reason to link these two issues now, i.e. the project of verticalization and professionalization of the State Sanitary Inspection with the coronavirus. I really strongly appeal to all representatives of the opposition, so that now, like... Besides, it is such a coincidence that previously during the committee's deliberations on this particular project, representatives of the Civic Platform in the Seym corridor threatened Poles with a coronavirus. Today we are sitting in the plenary room and again is scaring the coronavirus. Minister, but I would very much ask ad substance, because these are not political manifestos, they are a matter of substance. I'd really like to ask... Mrs. Marshal, I refer to what was raining here. Since this subject has already appeared, it seems that it is worth referring to. It's gonna turn out that the Platform... Ladies and gentlemen, the project responds to the demands of all those involved in the matter, i.e. employers, the Sanitary and Epidemiological Council, all professionals who deal with public health and see closely how the inspection works. These applications have been submitted on several occasions to both health inspection and the Ministry of Health. If anyone wants to, of course we will be happy to make these speeches available to you in full. This is the answer to the fact that entrepreneurs who are in contact with health inspection on a daily basis expect professional inspection, an inspection which will interpret the same rules in the same way regardless of which region of the country we operate in. Furthermore, upon request, And that's what I'm pointing out. We have tabled an amendment to the Left Club in the Sejm, which restores the possibility for local governments to obtain information on the health and epidemiology status and inspection activities, so that, according to your request, there is no doubt that the local government will be cut off. The only issue that is changing is that of the official authority of the county health inspector. In our view, every institution of this kind should belong to the authorities of the voivodeship. This will also avoid the many conflicts that have occurred so far. For example, in Szczecin in Zachodniopomorskie for a year a district health inspector was not appointed because of the conflict between the local government and the provincial inspector. This is a situation that certainly does not serve the security of citizens. So once again, on behalf of the government, I request the support of this project, as requested by Senator Orzechowska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u275	Thank you. Stay here, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. There are two questions for you, Senator. Right now, I'm asking you to ask Senator Alicia Chybick's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u276	Minister, a quick question. Why are you breaking the constitution by introducing this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u277	We don't break the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u278	Short question, short answer. Senator Beata Małecka... No. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u279	Minister, Senator Orzechowska could not answer the question of why you are breaking the article. Two constitutions that talk about vacathio legis. The Minister said that there is no rush, we do not have to rush, therefore my question is: why do you want to implement this law immediately, breaking the article. 2nd Constitution, which says that the vacathio legis order is based on the general principle of protecting citizen's confidence in the state and the rights and principles of decent legislation? It's getting pretty nasty. Almost every law passes with the violation of the article. 2 constitutions. What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u280	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u281	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! It seems that here the vacatio legis is about the moment of the entry into force of the Act, this is April 1st, i.e.... The bill says he's coming in immediately. No, no. Excuse me. Changes in health inspection shall enter into force on 1 April. It's written in the bill. You don't know the bill? I can't hear you. Excuse me. I asked you why the bill came in immediately. This applies to other changes that have absolutely nothing to do with the merit of the bill. Sometimes there are technical regulations that should come in right away. In this case, we are talking above all about the most important changes, i.e. the verticalisation of inspections. They enter into force, Madam Senator, on 1 April. If we want to have as long as possible a vacathio legis, between the signature of the President and the publication in the Official Journal of the Laws, the best way to achieve this is to agree to the proposal of Senator Orzechowska and send the bill right away to the signature of the President. Then this period will certainly not be longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u282	I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u283	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! I'm a relatively inexperienced senator, but at committee meetings, I've already had the chance to realize that if something doesn't work, we're making statutory changes because we think that if we introduce a bill, the train will go faster. We are going to be talking about transport today in this plenary session, but this is where everything is going to be, and it's pretty decent. There's gonna be another law on geological law. And that's where the changes are made, because something's not going. But that's not what I want to talk about. I was president of the city on county rights for 12 years, for three terms, and therefore I had the opportunity to function as if on the line of these services. In November, I was at a ceremony where a century of health services was celebrated and it was praised that everything worked professionally. I think it's professional, too. I don't understand. And I'm asking you a question. Why, because somebody in Poland cannot get along with the appointment of an inspector, we change the law. I think it's good to optimize the law so it works a little better, not turn everything upside down. Why do you want to get rid of the government again, avoid the government and do everything centrally? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u284	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u285	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It seems, however, that this is too far-reaching a thesis on this law. First of all, it is worth pointing out that the role of self-government in these most important tasks, in my opinion... Because if this isn't about staff, if local government isn't just about personal issues, then it's about substance. As I mentioned in my previous speech, we have restored the possibility for local authorities to ask for action and to provide information. So this kind of daily cooperation is as possible and we encourage it as much as possible. The proposals that have been made in the course of the work in the Sejm, including by the social side, we have accepted. We have made appropriate modifications in the course of the work in the Sejm. It seems that this problem has now been solved. The only thing that's changing is that it's a matter of service. Change allows us to... This institution, as you rightly pointed out, works really well, but there are still things that we would like to change in it in order to improve it. Main pleas in law that are formulated Despite the high marks you mentioned, It is precisely with regard to health inspection that there is some inconsistency between the operation of various inspectors. We are making very similar changes now, e.g. in the National Health Fund and in other institutions. And that always works out very well, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u286	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u287	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm going to say something unpopular. Here the main charge is for the unconstitutionality of the procedure for the adoption of this law. And, of course, that's a very important charge. But if there were records in this bill that led to the fact that professionals would actually feel more confident, doctors and patients, then... the welfare of the sickest law. At least the doctors would have a dilemma to put first. But this law does not fix the state that is now, because the present state is good. Better is the enemy of good, especially in medicine you should be careful. I have those questions. One is merely such a statement that if not the sanitary inspection has something to do with the coronavirus because so the Minister said that the amendment of this law had nothing to do with it. Who's got it? What other institution is responsible for protecting the country from the coronavirus, if not the health care, if not the services that control it? So that it has something to do with it as much as possible. This is a very important change at a very bad time. Of course, everyone says don't scare. Okay, we won't. But the Minister himself, during the work of the Health Committee, admitted that by sending this law to the Sejm in December, you did not know that the epidemic was coming, that it might occur that such a virus exists. This is a bill to be carried out. You're in charge, you're entitled to it. You want to do it differently. But my question is whether or not there's an idea to postpone the implementation of this law because of what's going on, even so that an inspection that can probably handle this virus And it's not just our country that's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, In some way that will allow us to make such changes... then we will be taught with experience. And this will allow you to actually write a bill in a similar way as the state, and it can make a difference there for the better. But at the moment, the change... I work at the hospital, and I know that when four ambulances come to the S.R., it's better not to make changes to doctors, to subordinates, to who's chief, to who's deputy, to who's hiring drugs, and who's gonna... Mr. Senator, I'd like... Good. So my question is, is there still a possibility that... not because it's either constitutional or not, but just in the interest of patients' welfare, let's stop this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u288	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It doesn't seem like a good time to hold off on this bill. This is a law that gives health inspection to the chief inspector powers that would be extremely useful in this situation that we have now. Of course, as if using the very good relations that Minister Jarosław Pinkas, the chief health inspector, has developed with the senior inspectors who are now under control, we are somehow able to achieve the same goal even before this amendment enters into force. However, in principle, it implements these important requests in such situations, such as better coordination, better cooperation between the various inspectors. Well, in our view, there's no reason for us to stop working on this bill at this point in any way. Especially since she's... Here it is worth pointing out that there are similar laws for which, for example. the appointments of inspectors with regard to the entry into force of the law in question are terminated, as if due to its entry into force there were some changes in personnel. There's no staff change here. I am convinced that the voivodships of health inspectors who will appoint county officials will certainly not make any hasty decisions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u290	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Thank you. No more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me disagree with the committee's meeting. With what the Minister said. The State Sanitary Inspection is an institution with great traditions, it has survived well the epidemics that have affected us so far, the H1N1 epidemics, avian influenza, SARS, MERS and others. In the face of the World Health Organization's announcement of a pandemic threat to the coronavirus, whether you like it or not... God forbid it doesn't happen, but it can happen, and it's not a virus like the last one. I am firmly convinced that the State Sanitary Inspection will manage the isolation, prevention of spread of this infection As with the previous infections. As long as she doesn't get involved in what she's doing or how she's organized, she won't be imposing anything on the new local authorities, because they'll be able to do it in their own territory, too. Head of Jarosław Pinkas State Sanitary Inspection It's a shame he's not here. He would also say that there is no need at the moment to make such changes. Anyway, that's what was said in the questions... But as a doctor, I'd like to go back to the problem of coronavirus infection. It's a special virus. But not to scare anyone, just to... hopefully there aren't people in the courtroom who are gonna run away from the coronavirus or what I'm gonna say. It's a special virus that's transferred to humans from bats. That's the kind of virus he hasn't had so far, he's sensitive to chemicals. And it is very important that this part of the action, which is secured by the State Sanitary Inspection: education of society, isolation of contacts. Simple washing of cancer... in my opinion this situation This is not the subject of today's meeting. It can become simply dramatic at a time when people who are immunosuppressed, people who are 65+, people who are in a state of incomplete performance of their immune system. Why? Because the functioning of this virus that really has a crown like this, like sunlight, if we look at it in an electron scanning microscope... This crown allows him to attach himself to the alveoli, which causes them to be destroyed, to put it simply. I have asked such questions and again ask the Ministry of Health to answer these questions in writing. Is there a sufficient number of ventilators on infectious wards? It's not like you're gonna take them away from the other sick people, or cut anyone off from the ventilator, or drag them into an infectious ward in case of infection. The same question applies to the lung heart. This disease progresses so that in the first stage you can help the patient with a ventilator, but then you have to go on the lung and pump into the patient's oxygenated blood. Are they in infectious wards? Because those that stand on thoracosurgeons and cardiothoracic surgeons serve patients, that's where these cameras are used. I hope that these questions will be answered. And that's all I wanted to say from the doctor's point of view. For me, human life really is the most important thing. Minister, this is not the time to mess with this bill. I am not saying that the verticalisation and equalisation of local governments is a bad thing, but it is not done in a situation of such a threat. Thank you very much. Thank you very much... And that's why I filed a motion to reject this bill. I call for a vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Much has been said about this law in connection with epidemiology. I would like to reassure all of you once again. In the Health Committee, we discussed the problem of a possible epidemic and I want to reassure all of you absolutely, because this conversation was very, very substantive. Nevertheless, today's law is also negative, but for a slightly different reason. First of all, I am talking about the nature of the changes proposed here, the organisational changes and the removal of local authorities from the right to influence the inspection and its cooperation with the district health inspection. These are only fragmented changes, while we have heard for many years that the public health page is to be strengthened. There were projects 2, 3 years ago to strengthen the entire diet and food section, so that institutions that work together are in one area of public health, and that's completely nothing. Now we hear about verticalization. We can discuss here whether it will have a greater effect on health or not, but the way in which this law, this amendment, and the way in which these rights are taken away from local governments raises our doubts, all the more so that at the meeting of the Health Committee the local government party clearly said that there was no consultation. So there is a presumption that perhaps this is just about personal issues, not about significant changes in the system. Another issue that emerged during the meeting of the Health Committee is that, in addition to changing this organisation at the level of the local government, the organisation has also changed at a different level, namely the laws of the Health Inspection of the MMSWiA have been removed. It was also a question of why MSWiA and why it was done in the parliamentary amendment mode. This raises our doubts, absolutely supported by legislators, who have clearly outlined how many mistakes there have been in this amendment. The constitution was also broken, unfortunately it was broken. It is precisely because all this has not been established in accordance with the correct legislative path that we oppose the introduction of this law. That's it, period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u295	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senators! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, the matter is delicate, so we must be serious, and we must maintain some substance in order not to resort here to simple political statements. Indeed, the issue concerns the health of residents, the health of patients, and care must be taken. As you know, our entire healthcare system is very deeply underfunded, in terms of staffing it is close to collapse. We also have institutions that operate on the outskirts of this system, including. sanitary inspection. The health inspection works well under the conditions under which all health services also operate. We managed to carry out a health inspection through all these turbulences in such a way that it fulfils its function, we all praise it and this is also a reason to be proud of the Minister, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the Minister for Defence. In fact, politically speaking, we agree that this is an institution that works well, and that's why it's more my surprise that we want to change it at all costs right now, without even having regard to the fact that there is even some agreement on the issue of these changes. 'Cause maybe they're good. However, this is implemented in the wrong way as well as at the wrong time. I do not agree with the Minister that limiting the autonomy of sanitary inspectors, that they are subject to local governments, will certainly improve their work. In medicine, it doesn't always work that way. Even in the hospital, the chiefs have freedom of action and autonomy in treating patients, in what ways and when they will receive them, discharge them, and cure them. Hospital directors don't get involved in this, they don't coordinate their work, they don't tell them something's going to happen then, that day or any other day. In addition, there is a local specificity, which these institutions, if associated with the local government, know well, know over the years of this more than 100 years tradition, know and apply. If we centralize it so completely in terms of the approach to diseases, to the risks that are, it may turn out that the inspectors of the district or the voivodships will simply wait for the decision of the headquarters. It will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put you to sleep, it will put It is always so that if someone is independent, if he can take action, of course, to some extent acceptable, he tries to do so with care for the area in which he is, who he knows. And here's the proposed improvement, the assumption that if it's centralized, then on the same day, the information from the headquarters will reach all the health centers... Of course, they can still make it. Here I agree with the senator that the lack of coordination is not the reason why it should change so much, because then... Why don't we coordinate everything at all? Let the hospitals be subject to one person, an ambulance to one person, and then everything will be centralized? Well, that's not how it works. There are certain issues in which independence, autonomy must be preserved. I, of course, asked the Minister some questions during the discussion in the Health Committee on the threat of this virus. By the way, I'm gonna address the questions to the Minister and ask for an answer, so as not to politicize... I know it may be difficult to answer that today, so I'll ask you to answer in writing. How many infectious diseases have arrived or lost in Poland in 10 years? How many beds have arrived or lost in infectious diseases? How many doctors do we have for infectious diseases specialists per 100,000 inhabitants? And how is this figure, let's say, in comparison with the countries of the European Community, whether we are in the front or in the back? It'll give us such a general picture. As I say, today we are discussing an institution that is very important. It's not in the heart of health care, but it's very important and it works well. And I hope that such institutions as much as possible, because I fear that this information I have asked for will not be as optimistic as the health inspection situation. Let me sum up: changes, of course, yes, and they can also be such changes, although here we will argue about substance, but time is bad. During the proceedings of the Health Committee, I also asked how the NFZ is prepared to increase health expenditure. It was also a question of whether it was possible to increase the budget of health inspection, but I was more interested in the behaviour of the NFZ in relation to hospitals. But the answer was evasive: we have budget reserves that we'll probably run, but for now, you're on your own, hospitals. And, of course, they must prepare for what can happen, they must not wait until something happens and then make certain purchases, certain investments, etc. So for the time being, they have to cope on their own, and then perhaps to some extent, as usual, the percentage, will be refunded or paid. So that in my opinion we should vote against this bill for various reasons, but the most important reason is that we just have to put it back for a more peaceful time. She was guided to parliament in quieter times. She should go through the legislative process again. We must remove all the errors that the Health Committee President has spoken of here. We should probably get back to her. Now there's an opportunity, you can get out of it and you have to do it. Work on health protection of Poles needs to be addressed for the time being and legislative changes should be postponed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u296	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I inform you that requests have been made to the representative of the government to reply in writing. These requests were made by Senator Alice Chybick and Senator Wojciech Necessary. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on Thursday. Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next item on the agenda. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u297	We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020. The text of the act is contained in print No 60 and the report of the committee In print No 60 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to our committee on the work on the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020. The Commission met on 30 January this year. for the purpose of examining the law adopted by the Sejm on 23 January 2020. The result of our work is a report, which is included in print 60 A. We propose that the House adopt two amendments to this law. I will discuss these amendments in a moment, as well as the course of the discussion at our committee meeting. The aim of the Act is to adopt specific and occasional solutions for the implementation of the budget law for 2020. In the past years, the law introduces, among others, specific regulation on the financing of the professional training of teachers, the freezing of the write-down to the occupational social fund and its counterparts, specific rules on the financing of post-graduate traineeships and specialization training of doctors and dentists and the specialisation of nurses and midwives. The Sejm proposes that this year these objectives be achieved from the Labour Fund, not from the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund. The Act includes the allocation of the Fund to finance the tasks of the Minister responsible for computerization related to state computerization, the financing of the implementation of the programme of modernisation of the Prison Service in the years 2017 to 2020 from the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, this year also from the funds of the Fund for Professional Activation of Convicts and the Development of Prison Works. Part of the provisions of the Act provides for a specific form of funding for public institutions. According to Art. 19 funds for the subsidy provided for in the Law on the maintenance and development of research potential, including the "Initiation of excellence" programme of the research university, will be transferred in the form of treasury securities. Financial resources in the form of securities may also be transferred to a public institution or an institution entitled to finance under the rules laid down for a public institution under separate rules. This form may also have the means to carry out tasks commissioned by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science, relating to the provision of higher education and scientific information to operators, in particular to systems providing information on the results of scientific research, publications and monographs. As fiscal securities increase public debt, the funds transferred in this form, i.e. in the form of bonds, will not increase the government budget deficit. In addition, the Act allowed the Minister of Finance, at the request of the Minister for National Defence and the relevant budgetary manager, to carry out transfers of expenditure planned in the section of the National Defence between parts of the State budget and, at the request of the Minister for Defence, to carry out transfers of expenditure planned in part of the National Defence between sections of the classification of State budget expenditure. These are the main entries that are included in the around budget bill. At the committee meeting, and we invited representatives of almost all ministries who are interested in the relevant provisions of this law, we also invited the social partners, we had a very deep and long discussion on this law. We particularly pointed out some of the issues that raised the most controversy. Once again, and this has been happening for years now, the around budget law introduces specific, specific solutions that the committee believes should include. After the modification of another type of legislation, the amendment of these laws It is directly in the budget records. According to the members of the committee, some of the provisions of this law also raise doubts in terms of sources and ways of financing certain tasks. The most doubts in our discussion have been raised by the issue of funding science and higher education. This financing under the Act is carried out through state bonds. Individual institutions, institutions that are authorised under the law, receive a certain number of bonds. At a time when the university declares its needs, these bonds may be mobilised mainly for investment purposes with the agreement of the Minister responsible for Science and the Minister for Finance. It seems that this solution is quite safe, but according to the members of the committee, the method of financing clearly shows that it is, however, an attempt to bypass the budgetary system and reduce the deficit of the state budget for a given year, i.e. to introduce a system that does not create a new deficit. The budget committee does not change this issue, it does not propose changes. However, we have pointed out that this solution is not the best one, it raises doubts, and in the future it should not be financed in such a way important tasks due to the budget of the state, in general because of the needs of individual institutions, individual administrations. Another point that we have pointed out is that there is still an unresolved problem that some funds are created in such a way that they accumulate funds, funds appear on these funds, but are not used according to their intended purpose. It's especially about... There are several such places here, we have paid particular attention to the fund described in the article. 12, or so-called. The CEPiK, which was established to ensure that the driver safety system, the vehicle registration system, organize well. This fund has been collecting substantial funds for years which are not used for purposes that are in line with the legal purpose. Thus, there are surpluses in this budget and the Around Budget Act proposes that some of this money should be allocated to other purposes, mainly related to... not mainly, solely to state IT, including the building of broadband internet access in schools. The objectives referred to in this Act, in this point concerning the so-called. CepiK, they're right, and we don't deny this as a committee. However, the solution to this problem raises serious doubts in terms of the functioning of public finances. That is why we have written here, we voted on the amendment at the committee meeting, that Rule. 12 will simply be removed from this around budget law. Another matter would seem to be that even minor, because there are no changes in the financial resources, amounts or the size of the finances intended for some purpose. There is a provision for Article. 18 in the Around Budget Act, which empowers two ministers, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for National Defence, to carry out transfers of expenditure planned in Part 29 of the National Defence between the departments of classification of State budget expenditure. What is the reason for this recording? This matter has not been fully clarified. Of course, the Minister's information is about more rational and efficient management of this money. These are significant amounts in the budget of the Minister of National Defence. It is also about tasks related to the modernisation of the armed forces, and the functioning of defence. But here our doubt was such that the change between the sections of the classification of expenditure of the state, well, is a change which, however, violates the law on public finances and budgetary principles, applicable to all of us, the parliament and the government as regards the preparation of the budget law. So far, the practice has been that if there were any changes between paragraphs... well, in the case of changes between paragraphs, there was no need for special consent. But in the case of changes at the higher levels of classification, such agreement took place after consulting the committee responsible for public finances in the Sejm. And I think Or rather, we are convinced of this, and that is why we are introducing this amendment. That this minimum level of communication from both ministers to Parliament, and therefore directly to the public, together with the reasons why such a change and such a shift is taking place, should be included in this around budget law. And that's why we're putting this amendment, which is the second amendment in our set of amendments, so that we can also put this element. And that's our proposal. During the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, we listened to also partners, ministers, representatives of government and government institutions. Also representatives of the social side, i.e. representatives of trade unions, OPZZ, Solidarity, the Polish Book Chamber and other partners. The result of this discussion was not the preparation and adoption of the budget of amendments by the committee at that time. We considered that we would listen to the comments, the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance had the opportunity to take note of these comments, and we accepted the principle that amendments would be tabled in plenary, which would possibly be the result of those analyses and opinions which the social partners had submitted to us. That was the case, such amendments have already been made in writing to the secretary. But I will not talk about them here because this is not the subject of a report from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. But I would like to inform you that they have been prepared and relate to those issues which, according to our partners, were the most important, i.e. the freezing of amounts related to social funds, the amount of basic funds for salaries, etc., etc. So a few more of these amendments are the result of this discussion. These amendments, of course, do not break in any way this budget law or budget, but show certain priorities that might have been. Whether the High House will accept it is a separate matter. I think this will also be discussed at the committee meeting. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Thank you, Senator... I'm filing for a bill... Sorry, I'll finish with that formula. Yeah, yeah, go ahead. I request that the bill be adopted together with the amendments adopted which have been adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances. At the same time, I should like to inform you that a minority of committees also submitted their proposal, which will be the subject of a separate report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u299	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a proposal for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minority of the committee, i.e. the Senators of Law and Justice I, Mr Bierecki and Senator Ożog We have requested that the bill be adopted without amendment. This motion was rejected by 5:4 votes, and we have therefore tabled a minority motion. That's the only three issues I'm gonna raise, short. First line. We believe that the law for the implementation of the budget law should be adopted in the form proposed by the government. It is the government that will implement the budget that will serve millions of Polish citizens, and there should be instruments there that will simply be needed by the government to implement the budget, which I hope will be adopted in a moment. So this is the genesis, and that explains why we applied for it. This law contains a number of very important actions, which Mr Klein spoke very much about and which will help to achieve the 2020 budget well so that all objectives, social and not only social, can be achieved. Well, we disagree with those two amendments that have been proposed and tabled by the majority of the committee. Namely, the first amendment deletes the article. 12, i.e. the possibility of transfers of funds, free funds, which are in the CEPiK fund. Here the government proposes that these measures simply be transferred, but only in 2020, which has been very strongly underlined by your director from the Ministry of Interior and Administration, who presented this to the committee. The new functionalities of the CEPiK system will only be implemented in 2021, so we have free resources. These measures are, so that they do not lie in the account, we move them to the implementation of other actions related to state computerization Mr Kleina, of course, talked about it. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. for the internet for schools, but also for the implementation of Well, today we're moving all our activities to the Internet and we need an extension of e-services, which will be supervised by the Ministry of Digitalization. We therefore believe that it is possible to delete the possibility of implementing the necessary e-services, i.e. this article. 12, where we have free resources that will not be used in 2020 is unfounded. And the second point concerns Article. 18. Here, the amendment tabled by Mr Kleina and supported by a majority of the committee complements the provision on the possibility of moving appropriations within the budgetary classification to be formulated with the agreement of the competent parliamentary committee. Not with permission, after consultation. Mr President talked about it, too. We are talking about moving national defence measures. We're doing a huge program today to modernise the Armed Forces, and we need some flexibility, so the Ministry or the government... And here, in the context of these expenses, we are talking about the Minister of National Defence. Well, it could happen... We do not prejudice this, but there may be situations in which individual resources will have to be shifted, very large resources that go to national defence and which are included in the budget. Well, we don't have the budget approved yet, but that's the practice that there's a budget bill going on first, then the budget. We want this budget expenditure to exceed 2.1% in 2020 GDP, so it's pretty big money on a national scale. We may need to move these resources between cannons, and we may need rapid action. We enable the Minister of Finance and the Minister of National Defence to work together to move these measures. The proposal of a majority of committees is that this should be done with the agreement of the committee. It's... Not with permission. After consulting. Sorry, after consulting the Parliament's committee on budget and finance. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it surprises me as a senator of the Republic of Poland, because since my colleagues in the Sejm did not consider it necessary to move with their consent, with their knowledge and acceptance... Well, maybe we shouldn't get into the Sejm's jurisdiction. If the Members have not seen such a need... They didn't notice. Mr President, I think someone from 460 Members would have handled this, he noticed. There are very many Members of the Civic Platform, so I think that the Platform Members should pick it up. If my fellow Members in the Sejm have not seen such a necessity, let us not be overzealous, and let us not add such powers to the Sejm committee, since the Members themselves have not seen such a need. That's it. I have just one more little comment to make about the President's statement, which was very exhausting, but I must add one comment. It's not like all the committee members had reservations. on the transfer of additional funds in the form of bonds to universities, as was discussed. Many senators supported this form. Mr Kleina's statement could suggest that everyone was criticizing this. And I can only say that the rectors of the university with whom they have been talking are very supportive of this form, and it was already used in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u301	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. No questions? At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jolanta Hibner. Which rapporteur? The second. Mr. Mr. Frost. Thank you very much. Senator Mr. Frost. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u302	To your minority rapporteur, so to speak... ...the conclusion. ...the conclusion. Because you emphasized that this is such a special year that will have episodes of extraordinary solutions... I'd like to ask you why. Many interesting projects, which are needed for science-related projects, are financed not by the State budget, but by securities, by treasury securities that do not enter the budget, but by debt. I mean, the debt's gonna have to be paid someday, so why are we making swings like this? And the other thing. We are again giving a certain degree of freedom to have the budget of the Minister for National Defence and the Minister for Finance. So far, there has not been such a situation that it was necessary to make metastases, because something suddenly came up or some needs immediately. Why is it so urgent at the moment that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of National Defence make such transfers between... Can't they plan their expenses? Can't they find out what it all looks like this year's needs? And one more thing. Why is this bill, I'm sorry, is it being prepared again at the last minute because it's already backwards? What does that tell you? Isn't the government working properly?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u303	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u304	I've noted three thoughts I'd like to address when it comes to your questions. First line. As far as these funds are concerned for universities, this is the first time we have used this form, as I recall, in 2019 for investment expenditure. These are bonds that emit the state budget, the Treasury, and they are guaranteed by the State Treasury. They're 2-year-old bonds. I think you're here to discuss this subject in more detail. Not all investments are implemented by universities at a given time. Universities receive, so to speak, securities that can simply cash where necessary in the execution of various projects, not only investment, but also research, it can be said that these are also investment With European funds. Me, for example. I was present as the funds were transferred to one college in Jelenio Góra, because she is the only one established there. It's about Jelenia Góra. The university authorities were delighted to receive a few million extra money. Although it's not in cash, it's in securities, but they can cash it at any time, even faster than two years. After 2 years they are automatically bought out. These are zero coupon bonds. As you said here, every bond increases its debt if it is guaranteed... These are government bonds and they obviously increase debt, but because they will not be bought out this year, they do not enter the budget deficit. That's their advantage. And about... I don't know if they're all of them, but maybe the Minister could give me a hint here... I know that in 2019 such funds were received by the University of Economics in Wrocław and received the Wrocław University of Technology. And I didn't hear anyone complaining. Let us remember that these are additional resources, apart from those that universities receive in connection with grants and conversions, beyond education, research, etc., etc. We give additional funds in the form of bonds and these funds are used by universities. I did not hear criticism, certainly not from the University of Economics in Wrocław, Wrocław University of Technology or KPSW. Now PWSZ is the Krkonoše State Higher School in Jelenia Góra. I spoke to the president, the chancellor at Jelenia Góra. They were thrilled to have such additional resources. Anyone would be happy. Well, you know... I hope that you will vote in favour of this bill and that we will be able to allocate further funds to universities. As far as these measures are concerned... Perhaps Mr Kleina spoke to someone at another university and someone liked it less, but... This is a hidden budget deficit. I haven't heard any critical remarks, but any of you can ask. There must be universities in your constituency. It may be asked whether the transfer of funds in the form of bonds is acceptable by universities. I think that the Minister will be able to speak in detail about the amounts, the resources and the reception of all this from universities, because the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is probably monitoring this on a regular basis. Second line. It's about defense, it's about defense spending. Ladies and gentlemen, under the rule of law and justice, there is a really strong increase in defence expenditure. You know, we literally signed an F-35 contract a few days ago. The whole... It's just... That's how it is, Senator. This is just one of the many elements of modernization, the necessary modernization of the Polish army. The Territorial Defense Army is expanding all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence wants to have some flexibility in managing measures that are quite large. Remember, there were years when not all the money was spent. Let us remember that there are tenders, various kinds of investments, whose deadlines are moving, because not everything can be realized. We're talking about a lot of resources here. The point is that where these funds cannot be used during the year, they should be transferred to other defence objectives. Because we talk about national defense all the time, and it's not like we're moving this money to health or some other department. This will give greater flexibility in the management of expenditure, very, very large, which are the responsibility of the Ministry or under the Department of National Defence. I mean, anyway, it's all in the budget anyway... It's not like nobody's hiding anything in the budget. The National Parliament's Defense Committee or the Senate is monitoring the implementation of the budget on an ongoing basis. Then NIK will also control the budget, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of these budget control elements. And the question, senator, isn't the government working so late... Senator, the government is working, it's a government project. It is always the case that the budget law goes first, and only later is the budget adopted. And we stick to it. That was also the case with the Platform. I think that Mr Kleina or Mr Czarnobaj can confirm that, as they ruled, they first passed a bill around the budget and then a budget. If I am not mistaken, Mr Marshal, at the next meeting or at the next meeting, we will adopt the state budget, so we will be working on specific expenditure limits. Why is this only about 2020? Because the budget bill is always for a given year. She's not... all these solutions that are in here are only about 2020. If we want to theoretically move some solutions that will work out for 2021, then next year, at this time, we are going to proceed on such a bill. As far as I know, for several years these budget laws have been around, so I suspect that next year, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u305	And I have questions... Me? Yeah, yeah. I have two questions for you. You said this was a budget-by-budget law that was in force for 2020. What about those bonds you just mentioned? You said it went beyond the current year. Therefore, the question is whether these bonds that will be transferred to universities, as provided for by this around-budget law, will also be issued in 2021 or only in 2020. And second question. Why do you think that it is a positive thing to reduce budget surveillance by Parliament? I am asking this in the context of the proposal to allow a transfer to the MON budget after consulting the Sejm committees. I'll answer that... Is this a situation... This budget, which may be amended by the decisions of two ministers, comes from outside Parliament's control. Are there any measures that can be moved, or is there no limit to these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u306	Mr. Marshal, to answer the first question, about the bonds, I will say yes. The bonds are 2-year-old, but we're going to issue them this year, which is why they're in this around-budget bill, because it's going to be in 2020. In 2021, 2022, 2023, will this bond programme continue, I think, to respond more to the Minister. I think if he was here last year, he's gonna be here this year... It's just my assumption that he's going to continue because this program, contrary to what Senator Klein said at the committee meeting, is more likely to work out at the universities. But, like I said, that's just my opinion. We are issuing these bonds in 2020 and this is why this provision applies to 2020. If we want to do this in 2021, the relevant law will have to be passed next year. As far as the second issue is concerned, as I said, we are implementing these expenses. There's no limit to moving funds. But we have to have... I mean, maybe not us. The Minister for National Defence considered that he needed more flexibility in managing the funds in 2020. And as your marshal pointed out, we're talking about an episode act, only about the year 2020. And what are the plans to move some resources? Well, it would be nice to ask someone from the Ministry of National Defense. These elements were not raised at the committee meeting, so it's hard for me to guess. But I would like to make it clear that this is a possibility, which does not mean that it will be realised. As far as parliamentary control is concerned, I think that Parliament's control over budget implementation is. I think that if Members wanted to have such control, they would have included such an element in this law and it would already have affected the Senate with this element.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u307	That's why I'm asking you, I think maybe the senators will want that kind of control. But that's not an amendment. Well, we haven't finished the discussion yet. Senator Joanna Sekuła. Who would the senator like to ask the question to? Senator Kleina. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Question for Senator Kleina. There you go. And Senator Czarnobaj to whom would he like to ask the question? Mr. Kleina. Yeah. Oh, so four senators came forward with questions for Senator Kleina. Good. There you go, Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We have here a provision that says that funds may be transferred in the form of securities to a public university or a university entitled to finance under the rules laid down for public universities. Would the senator be kind enough to explain that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u309	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! We have spent a lot of time on this issue of bonds. We thought, of course, that every university that gets additional funding, whether it gets it in the form of cash written in the bill straight or in the bonds, will always enjoy it. There's no doubt about that, it's out of the question. It would be hard to find any university rector who would say: I don't want those bonds and I don't want those funds because I want it to be cash that affects my account every month. It would be more convenient from the point of view of universities to put funds directly, because they are clear, clear and can be managed according to the financial plan throughout the year. This bond issue, their troublesomeness... There's a problem here for the university, but the universities can handle it, can't they? The majors, so to speak, making money on this will be some funds, banks, etc., but the university will get its share, there's no worries about that. It's just that these are bonds... However, we believe that most of the committee believes that this has been done for this reason so that it simply does not increase the deficit of the state budget to bypass, you can even say, the principle. Because the government wanted to show that this year's budget would be balanced. I'm happy about it, I want it to be that way, and I think that every single one of us, no matter who's a political party, is going to say, "This is a great deal, it's a balanced budget." Only that unfortunately, this great success is also achieved by such movements, that some expenses are simply hidden in other places. That's the trouble, and that's the problem. And most of the committee just thinks it's a test. to increase the deficit... that it is to increase the deficit of the state budget in such a way as not to show it, not to show it, because it is simply out of the deficit. But, of course, these bonds are increasing public debt and we know that this is true, that is not questionable. During the committee meeting, the Minister of Science and Higher Education compared this situation in relation to the transfer of higher education bonds to the situation probably in 2009 when we introduced a provision in the Budget Act or even around the budget saying that Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be co-financed through bonds. But these are incomparable situations. After all, the case concerned a typical financial institution, a banking institution, which is put into such operations, the management of bonds and such matters in general is a normal thing for it. Once again, I would like to say that none of the senators denied the purpose of this expense. On the contrary, I mean. We think it's very good that universities get that money. And everyone's happy about it. I'm sure these universities and definitely students But the method of financing is not appropriate, according to most committees. However, we have not tabled any amendments on this matter. We were just pointing out that this isn't the right thing to do. This is the case, and I would explain it in such a way. These grants concern all those universities that meet the conditions laid down in the Act... This is where the college is going... Please... These are universities entitled to finance on a public university basis. So we have public schools and stuff. It's defined by the rules... Which is? Please explain this to me. Well, I'm not gonna... I mean, we haven't further developed this issue. We understand that, so to speak... If there are any doubts about this, the Minister will explain it, I think. On principle... Yeah, for example. The CUL is funded so that... Yeah, but this is... Of course, these are... There are many such universities, e.g. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw, etc... No... Cardinal Wyszyński University, right? Well, maybe he didn't. But it's just that all the universities that meet the conditions are gonna get... And I think it's right. It's just the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u311	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Before I ask a question, it's just one point. Please note how nice it is: zero deficit! And the fact that something in debt is going to happen is another matter. But here's the question. Is this gonna have... I'm asking because I think there's been a discussion about a stabilizing spending rule. So how do these bonds fit into the spending rule? That's the first question. And the other. This concerns an amendment on the need to give an opinion on expenditure in the Ministry of National Defence and on the need for the budgetary committee to take an opinion on this. That's what happened now, wasn't it before? So what was it like in the previous years? And what is your opinion on the issue of the introduction of this record?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u313	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This issue concerning the opinion of the committee responsible for State budget matters It's a general rule and it's been in force in the Seym forever. Why was it omitted at this point and in this situation, in connection with this law? I can't answer that question. We didn't think about it and they didn't analyze it. I think it may have been some sort of oversight, or maybe some other more important reason. I don't want to get into it. In any event, the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance thought that this was an elementary issue, that there was such a minimum level of control over the implementation of the budget, over the implementation of the State budget. We in this amendment do not say that it is to be agreed by the committee on public finances that it is to condition that these funds are shifted at all, but that the committee is to be informed and to present an opinion. It may present a negative opinion, it may present a positive opinion, but this is not a prerequisite for these changes in the budget in these parts to be carried out in these sections. Nevertheless, I think that in order to be able to recognise that Parliament has an impact on budget formation in a fundamental way, this least should be fulfilled, so to speak, expectation. It is trans-political and non-political, it simply says that Parliament should have full information at any time, about how the funds are spent, should not know about it until the following year when the public finance committees are considering the budget report and when there is a request for discharge. Such practice has so far been universal, constant, without doubt, not difficult for the Minister of Finance and the relevant ministers. The finance minister made an appropriate request at the appropriate time, the committee took note of it, gave an opinion on it and most of the time agreed to this proposal. And actually the most important thing was that this information was made public, also to the Members of Parliament, to the Sejm. And it seems to me that, especially in sensitive cases such as defence spending, defence spending, where there seems to be huge resources for various investments, such information should be provided. And it's not violating any state secret or anything, because no one gets into the details of contracts or anything else, it's just a message to the Sejm that this is happening. This is the prerogatives of the Committee on Public Finance regarding all other situations. So there's no need, and I would be against it... It would be a pleasure for the Senate to receive this information, but for the sake of clarity, it seems that this should be the competence of the Public Finance Commission in the Sejm. And the spending rule. We talked about this, too, because this fear is really serious. We have also raised this issue on the occasion of this law, but the committee does not propose any amendments in connection with this principle. Special expertise on compliance with the expenditure rule was prepared at the request of the committee. They will also be presented further. But it's kind of beyond the stage of work on the around budget bill. And it is worth remembering that in the past, however, around budget laws, as well as budgets, have been adopted, already for the last few... well, for 10 years, I think, have been adopted already in the previous year. Not in January, February or March, but it was done. It was the government's effort and the majority of Parliament to get the budget adopted, let's say, as far as December is concerned. It's been going on for a couple of years. Now this operation has failed. We don't know why. This case wasn't the subject of our analysis. But the question that came up, why the around budget bill is being processed in January, is, well, legitimate. Well, this bill should be put to the vote for a good cause and drawn up last year. But, as you may remember, we were working on a revision of the around budget law for 2019. So in December, we were updating the law that was in force all the previous year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u315	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator, do bonds fall under the spending rule?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u316	Bonds don't fall under the spending rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u317	Thank you. Thank you. But there are other questions for you. It's not for you. It's for Senator Kleina. Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u318	Mr President, Mr. Senator, I'm a freshman in the Senate, and I'm listening to what's going on here. It says here what was said... The Minister of Finance, at the request of the Minister of Defence and the responsible authorising officer of the budget, may carry out transfers of expenditure planned in the Department of National Defence... They'd like to move... This is where Senator Frost said: why are we doing this? Well, if we're going to trial, the Sejm and the Senate, then we'd like to have at least knowledge, the committee at least, before the spending decision, not after. 'Cause there's really big money in there. Since we are voting and dealing with the budgetary issue, surely the committee and we, the senators and the Members, want to know. I understand that the Minister is asking for flexibility. As a self-government officer, president of a small town, I had this problem, too. But every budget change required a discussion and a resolution of the city council. Well, in this case, The city council. And here's something bigger. And the question is, is that such a record, about such a possibility of transfer This is for Mr Kazimierz Kleina Is there a first time in such a law, or has it been in previous years? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Without the committee's information...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u319	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, well, of course Senator Gromek is not fresh. For many years he was president of one of the most important Pomeranian cities, Kolobrzeg. This isn't just a run-of-the-mill business and a presidency. This is a special city. Mr. Senator, this practice is simply written down in the Public Finance Act or... it's just a practice that has always been applied and it's never been specifically written down in such situations because it comes from other laws. Nevertheless, this type of recording... At least I don't remember him being proceded into the budget bill, he never showed up. But there's just such a common practice for many years and it's never raised any doubts. So, as I say, it is not burdensome for the ministers or for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u320	Mr. Senator, but just so we're clear, it's the practice of the finance committee to give an opinion on this kind of transfer. Yes? Public finances in the Seym. Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does Deputy Minister Tomasz Robaczyński wish to take the floor and present the position of the government on the bill? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. There are questions for the Minister. Minister, I have a question for you. Why was this bill rejected from the opinion of the Sejm's Finance Committee on possible transfers to the budget of the Minister of National Defence? What are the reasons for this? Would the committee have been gathering too long? Is there a fear that the committee will say no? Thinking doesn't mean anything. What is the ratio legis of this recipe?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not so much was given up on opinions as... This is a special provision, although it is some laws, but relatively rarely. In general, no transfers shall be made between budgetary parts, whether or not the committee agrees or not. Transfers between parts shall be made, but only in cases where they are budgetary provisions. Of course, the reserves are written down in one part of the budget and the appropriations are being transferred to another part of the budget. So it's kind of a natural shift. From reserve to part. And from the technical side, it's a shift from one part. It is now part 83 of the special reserve or 81 of the general reserve to the other part. Generally, there is no movement between parts of the appropriations, except, if I remember correctly, cases where new ministries and new budget parts are being created. There are also laws such as the Act on the Council of Ministers, where it is shown that the President of the Council of Ministers may carry out transfers of planned revenue and expenditure between parts of the state budget to finance the activities of the auxiliary bodies of committees and joint committees. There is also a law on the formation of remuneration in the national budgetary sphere and on the amendment of certain laws indicating that the Minister of Finance may transfer amounts to salaries, annual prizes and other financial charges of soldiers, officers, at the request of the Minister for National Defence, Justice or heads of individual agencies. The Minister may also transfer funds between budgetary parts on the basis of the one-off payment law for pensioners from 2019. These are such special cases, and this... generally, I'm going to say, the Sejm is in charge of this. And if you want to move the money between the parts, you just need to revise the budget. There's a special case here, but it shows... And it's not a secret, it's not something to hide, it's just a practice. Given that according to the Act and in accordance with our obligations to NATO allies, we are to allocate 2% GDP on defence expenditure... These defence expenditures are included in the budget mainly in part of the National Defence, but also in other parts that finance defence expenditure, such as. Air rescue services. And they are normally counted as defence expenses, although they are not with the Minister of Defence. And now, in a situation where, in particular at the end of the year, it turns out that in those other parts which are not with the Minister of National Defence, defence expenditure is not implemented, and this will affect the final defence expenditure in the country in relation to GDP, which is later examined by NATO-Wskie services... In such cases, the Minister for Defence And this is due to some practice, because this was the case, that there were problems with these other directors, and he requested a transfer. And the government agreed that this would be possible and that it could be flexible, especially at the end of the year, order it and quickly transfer such funds to the part of the National Defence. The Minister for National Defence has his projects running and can spend these funds in a given year to get this effect 2% GDP for defence. So it wasn't like there was a recipe, and now we're skipping the finance committee. It is simply that a maximum flexibility provision has been created so that at the end of the year it is possible to react in such a way and quickly. And it happens too. It's like looking at the purely practical side of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, the end of the year is difficult in terms of organizational matters. I mean, it's just that you have to call a committee, have conclusions, etc., etc. Then it may simply not be enough time, and the funds must be spent. And that's the only reason it was done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u322	Good. Thank you for explaining. Now you're asking Senator Paweł Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a general question. We are increasingly attracted by parliamentary projects. We are not satisfied with this, among others. because they are often of mediocre quality, but above all because they avoid the whole cycle of agreements, the whole cycle of opinions, consultations. Here I would like to quote one sentence from the opinion of the NSZZ National Commission Bureau of Solidarity; perhaps I will read this sentence. In general, the committee welcomes the proposal, although it makes a number of comments, but it writes: the lack of consultation by the government with the social partners in accordance with the Trade Union Act and the Social Dialogue Council and other institutions of social dialogue deserve a negative assessment. Minister, why wasn't this bill consulted? I mean, there's been enough time. Well, there's already emphasized the fact that the bill was relatively late to the Sejm and now to the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u324	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Senator... As if by combining the answer to this question, why is this bill so late... I mean, last year was special because it was an election year. The budget law in the first version was prepared in September, normally in constitutional mode. However, after the parliamentary elections because of the principle of discounting all laws must be re-examined. Since various factors have changed in terms of the economy and other laws have been examined, the budget law has also changed. Since this law is closely linked to the budget law, it could not have been dealt with earlier. We had this situation that... of course, these regulations are so closely linked to the budget that they couldn't have come out sooner than the budget bill came out. Since we wanted both laws to be dealt with at a similar date, so that this link would be visible and be applicable to both laws, and since the budget law was about the latter law, after the elections, it had to be addressed to the Sejm before the beginning of January this year, the around budget law was addressed at the same time, without consultation. That's why there was no consultation. At the same time, the budget law, by no means the first one, was consulted, although some changes were indeed made to it. The fact that this second version was no longer consulted, and therefore also the around budget law, stems from the pace of work on this law and from the fact that it had to be sent to the Sejm by the end of last year, otherwise there would be no financial plan on which to work in 2020, i.e. the project had to be submitted to the Sejm at all. And that's the reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u326	Thank you very much. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. The question will be on the question of the amendment tabled by us last year, the amendments of the Civic Platform, to the around budget law, which was voted by the House and allowed for an increase of the National Health Fund to 3 billion. I have a question: have the money that has been transferred to a backup fund to the National Health Fund already been distributed, and if so, for what? That's the first question. The second question concerns the amendment of the Around Budget Act, which assumes that funding of medicines 75+, for seniors, is transferred to funding by the National Health Fund. My question is: will these medicines be financed by the current fund or from this reserve fund? If so, I would still like to know how it will be in the following years, because now, through the grant, you are increasing the resources of the National Health Fund and the transfer of funding to the National Health Fund will remain for the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u328	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u329	These questions, of course, relate a little bit to each other. Yeah, yeah. The funds have been transferred and as it has been written in the around budget bill... Not the entire amount was transferred here, because the provision of the around budget law was such that funds up to PLN 3 billion could be transferred, depending on it. I also explained it in Parliament. - What's that? possibly there will be savings in the budget. So that ultimately this amount that was transferred to the NFZ last year is PLN 2 billion 700 million. This amount under the Act went to fund the reserve fund and this reserve fund has not yet been distributed, i.e. these funds entered the National Health Fund and they will be distributed during the year. As far as 75+ medicines are concerned, it will be these measures that will fund 75+ medicines this year. Therefore, there is a provision which provides the basis for such financing. This is an episode, because the bill is an episode. We'll be thinking about what's gonna happen next year, but this year it's gonna be funded by the National Health Fund, not necessarily by a backup fund. No, among others. In order to finance these tasks, this fund has been increased, but generally the National Health Fund is increasing all the time, year by year, due to contributions. So that whatever it will be financed, it will be financed by the National Health Fund, but the reserve fund has not yet been distributed, the use of this fund will be distributed during the year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u330	Thank you, Minister. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I only have a brief question about the article. 31. We talked about this at the committee meeting. If we got this information, it's okay. We asked the Minister to find out what was going on with the companies in question, and to provide lists of those companies whose Article was mentioned. 31 concerns. I will merely remind you that it concerns the remuneration of persons managing certain companies, i.e. that some companies of the State Treasury will operate according to this article and the others will operate according to other principles. Which is why I would ask the Minister to explain. Has the Minister been able to determine that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u332	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u333	Yeah, I know I committed myself to making that list. We don't have that data yet, but we're gonna hand it over so that they're available before the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u334	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to ask a question. I'm not hiding that the question is a little perverse. Is the around-budget bill even necessary? I have been a Member for many years and I do not remember the budget law, which would not be accompanied by the around budget law, but I think it would be better if this around budget law weren't there if it didn't have to be, if all the rules were so precise that we could create a budget without a around budget law. But who needs this bill? Well, this bill is needed primarily for those who create this budget, the government. She's needed for the government to make some transfers within departments, between funds. Unfortunately, it can often also be said that it is conducted so-called. creative accounting. This, in my opinion, is also evident in this bill and I will try to justify it to some extent. The changes that are presented in this Act, I would divide into those that are acceptable, which are difficult to accept and which should not be accepted properly. I would add to these acceptable changes, for example. amendments to the Police Support Fund. In this provision we allow the chief police officer to finance the voivodship commands, finance police schools. It's as if it's obvious, it's about the same kind of activity, so here it's hard to have any special reservations about it. I'd consider those difficult changes to accept, for example. those relating to financing from the Labour Fund or the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. These issues were also raised by representatives of trade unions present at the committee meeting. With the Labour Fund, we'll finance internships for doctors, dentists, nurses. From the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, we finance the salaries of young people who are preparing for work. And everything would be fine, except that these changes were first introduced in 2009 and were incidental. They, like many other changes, were supposed to last for a year, maybe for 2 years, and they last for more than 10 years and it seems that in subsequent around budget laws they will also take place. I'm saying that this is possibly acceptable, because, actually, when we talk about internships of doctors or nurses, it involves some degree of work, so if we're funding it from the Labour Fund, I think it might be possible to turn a blind eye to it to some extent. A few words about financing the Armed Forces because that's what we talked about today. Here is the story, that we include the amount of funds allocated to the defence of the country under this around budget law, among others. the funds of the Military Property Agency, those which are devoted to Internet investments or to housing investments. Well, that's a little artificial, because we want to get the right indicator, which the Minister said, 2%. GDP, so we add as much as possible to these defence expenditures to achieve this indicator. But on the other hand, it looks like we can't spend the rest of this money, because with these defence expenses, we finance the fire department, the Border Guard, the State Security Service. So it doesn't make any sense. And two more words about this most discussed record today, which would enable the Finance Minister to make transfers between departments at the request of the Minister for Defence. And on the part of Senator Mroz, and on the part of Minister Robaczyński, it was most often argued that this makes the activity more flexible. I, on the basis of my many years of parliamentary practice, would like to say that the Committee on Public Finance has very often consulted proposals on whether these are changes in funds, whether they are transfers of special provisions on the day on which these applications were affected. So there is no concern that the Public Finance Commission of the Sejm will to some extent torpedo or slow this process down. That's why I'm surprised it's happening. However, this is a lot of money and I believe that the opinion of the committee responsible for public finances is necessary. Parliament's control of MON expenditure in particular is necessary. Another issue that raises doubts is the CepiK case, which was also raised by the Member... excuse me, the rapporteur's senator. Well, in fact, the situation is that for many years the CEPiK, Central Vehicle and Driver Records has not used the means it collects. This year the revenue of this fund is planned to be about PLN 150 million. Unfortunately, until now the CEPiK could not use this money, there was over PLN 300 million in the account at the end of the year, so it is really big money, and the CEPiK still does not function properly. So we wanted this amendment to enable the CEPiK to finally get back on its feet, so that all these vehicle and driver records matters could function. But you want to spend a lot of that money on digital, Internet-related things. Well, it is a necessity, but it would be better if the government found separate money for these tasks and this is how he financed it. And the last thing that is hard to accept is that from the funds of the Technical Supervision Authority we want to finance the State Water Farm Polskie or the National Property Resources. These are completely different things, here we have technical supervision, and there we have completely different things. But it seems that the revenue of the Technical Supervision Authority is too high and the other institutions are too small. The question is, do we have to do this in the budget bill? I started with the question, and actually I'd like to put an end to the question. I don't know if I'm gonna answer that question right away. I wonder if the senators who are critical of the draft budget for 2020 should support the around budget bill. However, she is somehow inseparable from the draft budget, and we will still talk about this budget at the next Senate meeting. Many of us are very critical of this draft budget. However, it seems that if we are able to vote on the amendments we are proposing, we will support the around-budget bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u336	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Szwed made his speech in the debate on the minutes, and you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Kazimierz Klein. And Leszek Czarnobaj. And Leszek Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... But they're... Oh, there are adjustments. No. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on Thursday. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that tomorrow we will begin the session at 10.00 a.m. from the examination of the point concerning the second reading of the draft law on the Łódź metropolitan union. After considering this point, we will proceed with the examination of paragraph 16 concerning the Law amending the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. After considering these points at the request of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, we will consider the tenth, eleven, twelve and thirteenth points, i.e. Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, the Law on Plant Protection against pests, the Act amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and certain other laws. I now ask Senator Secretary for communications.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u337	Message one. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of the requests submitted at the fourth Senate meeting to the Act on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2020, Senate Print No 60, will take place tomorrow, 6 February at 9.30 a.m. in room 182. Second message. Tomorrow at 9.00 a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held in room 217 on the first reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea 10 February 1920 in Puck, Senate printing No 64. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-05-senat-04-1.u338	I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 49]]
