ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 16, - Economy and Development - at 3 p.m. 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the quorum. I ask all Members present in the plenary room, in other rooms, as well as those who connect with us remotely, to press any button to confirm their participation in the meeting. 435 Members are taking part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. There are formal requests. Here you go, the first Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u3	God bless you. God bless you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to order a break in order to convene the Convention of Seniors, so that you can decide there that it is time to end the regulation of access to this place, to the Chamber of Plenary Sessions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. As far as the Confederacy is concerned, your marshal persistently refuses to enter this room with more than two members of the Confederation. It is tiring, senseless, like all the coroner's, pandemic psychosis, whose victims I see also in the walls of the Polish Parliament. It's time to end this. It's time to let the nation out of quarantine. It would be best to start this process by releasing Members of the Republic of Poland from quarantine immediately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u4	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to remind you that this is not my decision. There is a resolution of the Sejm, which will be in force until 30 June. But this is your arbitrary decision. I'm sorry to hear that you're referring to a decision here. At the meeting of the Senior Convention, on the other hand, this matter was discussed. There's a request for a recess, but we'll listen to the others first. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u5	High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I'd like to file a request for a recess and a convocation of the Senior Convention. The Left wants us today to take advantage of the opportunity offered by a large emptiness in today's schedule and take care of something really important. Ladies and gentlemen, another month has passed. Thousands of people get laid off, thousands of people get unemployment. Another month goes by, and the government hasn't offered anything to people who are losing their jobs. The government hasn't offered anything to people who are now sentenced to starvation benefits. Recently, one of the ministers of this government showed a lack of knowledge, could not answer the question of how much benefit it was. He's a manor. Well, I'd like to tell you how much the benefit should be. The minimum allowance should be PLN 1400 per hand, and the allowance should, ladies and gentlemen, account for half of the last salary. These are normal European standards. It's about time we introduced them in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last week, Robert Biedron and I presented an appropriate bill. Let's take care of him today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u6	Thank you, sir. Let's help people who lose their jobs... Thank you, sir. Excuse me, Marshal. ...instead of dealing with things of a slightly lower weight. Thank you very much. Another request for a recess. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u7	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to thank you in an unusual way, Marshal, for understanding and in a sense support for the voice that Mr Budek presented today at the Convention meeting on behalf of the Coalition Club. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a very dangerous situation. Today a report of the National Bank of Poland was published, which talks about forecasts and bank policy towards the credit market. We've got a massive bank hold-up. Despite the liquidity, the banks accepted the principle: whoever received the aid under the shield, whatever - no aid, no loans. Someone who conducts an economic activity which in any way is limited by the government because of coritotus: hairdressers, hairdressers, cosmetics, but also theatres, actors, cinemas, shops, all who have any restrictions - no credits. This will kill the Polish economy. We demand that Prime Minister Morawiecki come and answer as Prime Minister the question of how we will deal with this crisis. Because this is (The bell) a trailer - this also applies to mortgage loans - a dramatic economic crisis in Poland. The Polish economy without loans is unable to survive. We ask the government to intervene in this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u8	Thank you, sir. Mr President, I have already explained this situation. I have addressed the Prime Minister with such a request, and I think Thursday... Thank you, Marshal. That's why I thanked you for understanding. There you go, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. Sorry, not anymore. And Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. I'm here, Marshal. You are Mr Kropiwnicki. But there has already been a formal proposal, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state is in disarray, the state is in organizational disarray. This is a total disgrace to the power camp, but this is also a disgrace to the system framework, which allows self-government, which allows the citizen to be treated as a subject rather than as a host. The elections are due in four days, and Poles do not know who, where, when, how, how... They don't know how they're going to vote. Then ask Grodzki. It is necessary to bring about a natural disaster, because this situation is not the fault of the candidates. This isn't even the fault of Coronavirus. This is the fault of bad decisions, forbids the powers of the State Election Commission, the lack of cooperation with local governments and the failure to bring in the state of a natural disaster, not to move elections, but to state the fact. Today we were going to talk about the liquidity fund. You haven't even been able to prepare this bill for three or four weeks. Get your shit together! Get your shit together! [[Applause]] Shh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u10	Oh, my God, sir. We can all hear you, really. Thank you very much. In fact, there was one motion, a double, a recess, and I will put this motion to the vote. The others were not formal proposals. You're welcome. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please press the button. It's not working. Marshal, formal motion to be off the agenda. But we're voting now. Who's against it? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 221 was for, 228 against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. How little we've run out. Before we proceed to the next item, I would like to inform you of the Bureau and Senior Convention meetings. I think this is important information for all of you. As there are many Members today and we are sitting in 11 rooms, after the discussion I have said that you will have a representative of the IT Centre in each room. I will only conclude the vote when the representative of the IT Centre gives the secretariat a telephone signal that the vote is completed because we are present here in the Chamber, we have Members in 11 rooms, as well as those who participate remotely. I am shown the number of incoming Members who log in. We'll have information. Of course, it's gonna take a little longer to vote, but I think you're gonna be a little calmer. That's how she was, I understand, the suggestion that it all goes smoothly so that everyone knows how to log in. If there is a problem, the representatives of the IT Center will tell you what needs to be done so that there is no problem with login above all. On the other hand, each Member is responsible for the quality of the vote. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives (Prints 336 and 352). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u11	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Dear Members, I have the honour to present to you the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, print no. 336. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 15 April 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting today, i.e. On 5 May 2020, he asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Such a brief report on what happened at the agricultural committee meeting. After the start of the committee meeting, Minister Anna Gembick explained this proposal. She told me how much this project was expected by the village housewives' circles. She has made it clear to us how good this direction is when it comes to the activities of the Rural Housewives' Clubs, which the Government of Law and Justice appointed in 2018. This direction of action encouraged more than 5 000 to be created in the villages. new circles of country housewives. Dear country, the new circles of rural hostels, not only those registered, are 5888, i.e. Almost 6,000. Ladies and gentlemen, 96% the powiats in Poland are Circles of rural hostels, which are registered in AriMR. This shows how important this project is, how important is this direction, which the government of Law and Justice, first Mrs. Beata Szydło, then Mr.Matthew Morawiecki, started. It shows how expected it is, how important it is. Why? That's because this project is primarily for the subject of a rural hostel's circle. Until now, the rural hostel circles have operated in different structures, there have been different possibilities, and this project will allow the entity to act officially, act in accordance with the law. This project will allow business to be carried out, and will allow the legal sale on various festivals, harvests or stalls of products that ladies and gentlemen from the rural hostel circles produce. This is the direction that allowed us to give birth to the circles of the country's hostess. And what's important is that the rural housewives' circles have somehow become independent of the wojews. Up until now, it was mostly the elders who had much to say about the circles of rural hostesses, and some circles liked them more, the other less - said the Minister. Minister! We thank you very much for this justification for presenting this project. What are we changing about this project? First of all, the project provides for statutory tasks to be carried out by the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises to be entrusted to the government's representative for local social initiatives. It's one change, kind of formal. The second shift is probably more expected. No: probably, just more expected by the rural hostess's wheels. This project is being implemented with a financial change which allocates 40 million PLN for rural hostels in Poland. This is another change that allocates funds to rural areas, because this is the way to say: rural areas, but above all for the activities of rural hostels. I don't think we need to convince any of our fellow Members how important the rural hostels' circles are, how much good they do in the countryside, how many good things they do, how many good things they do in the countryside. First of all, perhaps the most important thing is the question of identity, the foundation of our small homelands. I come from Opoczyn County, ladies and gentlemen. Opoczyn County is famous for folklore. I know how country housewives work. For this work, the Minister thanked us and we, Members, are also joining you in this thank-you. As rapporteur, I would like to present what was at the committee meeting to the honourable Members who were not at the agricultural committee meeting. The second change I have already mentioned is the 40 million PLN. Where does this 40 million PLN come from? In 2018 it was PLN 16 million, in 2019 it was PLN 29 million, in 2020 it was PLN 40 million, because there is so much interest (the bell) in the circles of rural housewives just this project. There were critical voices, which I must also tell you. Marshal, allow me to say two more sentences. It's about critical voices that surprised me very much in person. One of the messengers said that in a time of crisis... Questions have been raised as to where we will get money in a time of so much crisis and why we are dealing with such a matter as the circles of the country's housewives, when there are more important matters. A lie, a lie, sir. For the Government of Law and Justice, all matters are important. The issues of the hostel circles are also very important. Report. The Left Club has tabled an amendment on this provision to cover the next 10 years as regards measures for the rural hostel circles. The Minister explained that such an amendment could not be introduced at the moment, because this is a long-term forecast that can be taken into account in the budget. The Minister promised that she would do everything she could to talk to the Chairman of the finance committee, as well as the Prime Minister, in order to introduce this in the long-term forecast. This amendment was therefore rejected by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u12	Thank you very much, sir. In the future, please stick to the appointed time. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u13	I have just spoken as rapporteur, and now I have the honour to present my position to you on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Of course, I don't think I'll surprise anyone if I say that the Law and Justice Club fully supports this project. The club also fully supports the direction taken by the Government of Law and Justice, which is to support the rural hostels' circles in the countryside. You know, I've already told you how important the activities of rural hostels' circles are, how much good they do in the countryside. First of all, they care about our folklore, this small homeland, or foundation. This is our identity, if we're talking about the foundation, our little homelands. And here, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to thank all the rural hostels' circles very cordially for the fact that they lasted, that they survived different periods of history, that at the moment they are developing so much that so many new circles of rural hostesses have been created. Thank you very much. And here I also want to say one very important thing. This is about the Polish product that President Andrzej Duda was talking about. Thanks to this law, this direction that we have chosen as Law and Justice, as the Government of Law and Justice, we have given birth to the circles of the country's hostess. It is this Polish product that the president mentioned, the rural hostels' circles can finally legally produce, legally sell and legally share this Polish product with the inhabitants of the cities as well. I think it is with great benefit for all of us, and above all for Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! There are constant political allegations regarding registration with Arimr. It is alleged that these rural hostels' circles, which will register in the AriMR, are PiS's rural hostels' circles. If we were to look at the matter this way, all farmers who are in the ARimR and take direct payments would be farmers of Law and Justice. We are aware that the Polish village supports the Law and Justice, and most of it, but there are also farmers who support the Polish People's Party, there are also said to be those who support the Civic Platform, and also take these subsidies in the AriMR. This is not political in any way. Why... That's because they can't get grants. That's why there's a big... That's not true. Your marshal, they're disturbing... Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - I speak on behalf of the club Law and Justice, politically - a great appeal especially to the candidates who are running for president at the moment: tell the wojews who are attacking so badly the circles of rural hostess registered in the Arimr... I say this especially to the PSL or the Civic Platform, because there are such warriors, dear ladies and gentlemen, there are such warriors. I can give an example, but I don't want to set an example at this point that they're attacking, that they're doing everything they can to make sure that the rural housewives' wheels don't register at the Arimr and use these resources. That is why I call on the candidates who are now running for president to appeal to the warlords of their party that the ARIMR is not political. ARiMR is a state office that supports all, not just farmers from Law and Justice and not just the circles of housewives from Law and Justice. Everyone in Poland, all circles of country hostels can register. There is no segregation, as some have said at the committee meeting: that it is segregation that only part of the wheels can register and some cannot benefit from these measures. All the rural hostels that will register at the ARiMR, the state office, will be able to benefit from this, and it will be mandatory. As soon as they register, they will benefit from these measures. It will not be done on such a principle that if the uncle is satisfied with the activity of a given wheel, it gives more money, and if he is not satisfied, it does not give more money. To quote the classic we have just heard here today, I appeal to all the candidates: take them down, take them down so they don't attack the circles of the country housewives, just to let them register at the ArimR. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u14	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The rural hostels' circles have survived a lot. They also helped Poles survive the partitions. They will also survive the rule of law and justice, sir. [[Applause]] The problem is that you say that local government officials discriminate against those circles of country housewives who go to the agency, to your president. No local government discriminates against any circle of rural hostess. Women in hostess circles are wise and will not be addicted to anyone, and local government officials are from every political option, from the right to the left, because that's what self-government is all about. On the other hand, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - forgive the Member of Law and Justice - has the President of your nomination. It is a great injustice that you in this agency only give money to those wheels that go to this agency and go to that president. It's very unfair. If you respect every wheel of country housewives, give the money to all the wheels. Don't force them to register with the agency. Don't make them do this. E.g. In the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, there are probably 800 circles that were associated with farmers, circles and agricultural organizations. 500 have joined the agency with a request for registration and funding, but 300 have not joined. What's the effect? Well, the effect of that is that even the money you've spent for them, for the hostess's circles, wasn't used because you can't even do it right. Well, somehow it's so strange that you always remember the circles of the country housewives just before the election. This was the case just before the 2018 local elections, just before the 2019 European Parliament elections. And so again in 2020, just before the presidential election. What did it look like in practice? Well, in 2018, you spent 90 million for the wheels. They took advantage of whether or not they used this money in the amount of about 16 million. You spent 40 million last year. Again, the hostess's wheels used 29 million. You're talking 40 million this year. Unfortunately, the risk is very similar, but not all this money will be used because your assumption is wrong. Don't just give it to those who go to the agency and to the president, just give it to everyone. Don't discriminate against them. Everyone should be treated evenly, because every wheel of the country hostels is doing a really great job at the bottom of their local community - all the wheels, not just the ones that are in the agency. That's one thing. However, I would encourage you to create a mechanism that will make this money every year and be uniform and universal for everyone, like the Sołecki Fund. I know it must be hard for you to name this fund because this fund introduced the Civic Platform and the PSL in 2009. - not before the election, just after the really winning election. From what I recall, by 2016, about 70%. all villages have already benefited from the Social Fund and the value of all these citizens' initiatives amounted to PLN 400 million. Now 600. If we were to divide this from 2009 to 2016, in fact this 400 million is 50 million a year. You can really use big money when the solution is fair, universal and universal. That is why we would like you to look at the circles of rural hostesses like the organisations working really pro publico bono in this small community, always local and most often rural community, so that you do not discriminate against the circles and women, especially women - because there are also men in the circles of rural hostesses - who really spend their private time, sometimes at the expense of personal and family life doing something for others. That's what we want to thank them all for. Of course, the Civic Coalition Club will vote for money to go to the country hostels' circles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u16	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Obaz will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I lacked one sentence from the rapporteur: the right line is our authority. Like Bareja in the Bear, he emphasized how well it is and how the government of Law and Justice treats everyone equally. You spoke about 96% the counties from which the rural hostels' circles registered in the AriMR, but unfortunately this represents only 21% of the village. In Poland we have 43 thousand. village, today we have registered about 9,000. wheels. I am convinced that each of us should depend on the construction of civil society, which is based primarily on the grassroots initiative, integrating Poles and Poles, and involving them to strengthen social ties, education and search for optimal solutions to local problems. There is no doubt that one of the most active groups in support and development of local communities is an underappreciated way by the government's rural hostel circles. That's over 40,000 today. organisations actually operating on the basis of three laws, both those registered, which operate on the basis of the law that we are indirectly proceding today, as well as the law on public benefit and voluntary activities. That's why the $40,000. the organisation has the right to be treated equally. I would like to stress that financial support for the rural hostess circles cannot be based on the electoral calendar, because unfortunately today it looks like this. 2018 - Local elections, we have support for rural hostels' circles, 2019 - we are at picnics, Mr President welcomes all ladies, Mrs Marysia, Mrs Zosia, and today with the votes of the PiS Members, an amendment giving the opportunity to support the circles of rural hostesses not only in 2020, but in the years to come, is voted negative. The use of funds to only provide ad hoc support to those beneficial on the scale of the local organisation is a waste of the social potential that rural hostels have developed over the past years. Research shows that most of the circles are organisations that are largely focused on small-scale activities and focussed primarily on the immediate environment. The nature of the activity and the local activity result in a high degree of cooperation with the local authorities, which the rapporteur here referred to, which is wrong - me and all the Left do not think so - the municipal centres of culture, but also with the voluntary fire department, which is another pillar of strengthening civil society in the countryside alongside the rural hostels' circles. Its members often also work in local organisations of the rural hostels' circles. At this point it is worth recalling, because yesterday was firefighter's day, that until today the Law and Justice government has not passed a citizens' bill on the pension allowances of voluntary firefighters, for which nearly 700,000 are waiting. members of this organisation. Taking this into account, it should be noted that social trust, which is bestowed on rural hostels, is characterised by a high degree of social engagement network building, which not only facilitates joint action with the local community, but, above all, facilitates them to build social capital around their activities, which integrates and strengthens social links in the local structure. What is the approach and why this money was to be given, today at the committee meeting we probably heard... It sounded best when asked about vacathio legis. The Minister replied: This change is dictated by the fact that the rural housewives' circles will receive this assistance as soon as possible, especially during the difficult time we are in. We get a lot of questions, for example. whether they will be able to receive the funds for massage sewing as part of the fight against the coronavirus. We want this help to get to them as soon as possible. Excuse me, is this money meant to be used - and that is the argument that we need to introduce it quickly, without extending it for the next years - only so that these ladies sew masks because the Polish government cannot afford to buy them? That's why on behalf of the Left Club, I'm applying for a change in the bill, and I also submitted it to the committee's meeting on behalf of the Left Club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the allocation of appropriations for the following years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u18	Thank you, sir. The speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Mrs Bożena Ironwska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u19	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on amending the law on the circles of rural housewives from print no. 336. How important the circles of rural hostesses have played in the history of our homeland, in which they have been operating for more than 150 years, I do not need to convince anyone in this room. I want to thank all the ladies involved in the work for the local community - folk activists, teachers, housewives, doctors, creators, cultural animators - for the great work you have put into the development of your communities; you have worked to help rural families, help raise and educate children and young people, and have worked to protect health. Women's organisations have strongly contributed to the development of education and entrepreneurship for women. They make a huge contribution to the development and cultivation of our history and tradition. Every day I meet with the ladies from the circles of rural housewives in my subwarszawski district, but not only, and I know how strongly members of the circles engage in the integration of the environment, in cultivating national customs and traditions. I also see how, with social changes, rural hostess circles change the formula of their activities and are doing great in the new reality. The members of the rural hostess circles are always extremely ambitious in taking up new challenges. Their activities have been and are widely respected and appreciated. On behalf of the Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to thank you once again for this work. The current amendment is already the second amendment of the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The Act was established in November 2018. The first amendment took place as early as April 2019. She hasn't changed what's most important in this bill... [[Game in the O.R.]] Keep your voice down. ...which divides the rural environments. Well, according to the provisions of this law in one village, as you know perfectly well, only one circle from this village can be registered. Imagine, and you must know very well that the circles, which had a huge history and tradition that had been operating in a given village for many years, had only less than a month to register. It was a time from November 29 to December 28. We know that Christmas is at that time, but there was also a whole action to keep them from registering. At that time a lot of new wheels were registered, which could receive grants. And these new wheels are 59% today. Another non-constitutional issue which is included in this law is the issue of membership. The point is that a member of a given circle cannot be a member of another circle. It is in the present proposal that it is still unchanged. Once again, I stress: this is a very important issue for the environment of rural hostels' circles, because when I meet with ladies, I often hear that they pay attention to the fact that these wheels, which did not register at the time, cannot benefit from funding. As regards the amendment I mentioned earlier in April 2019, there were amendments made. From now on, there can be wheels in cities up to 5,000. residents and villages, which lie within the administrative boundaries of cities. The current amendment maintains the amount of PLN 40 million for the rural hostels' circles, and let us remember that in the first year the amount of PLN 90 million was allocated for this purpose. And the most important change is a change of attorney. So far, it has been a representative of the government for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in the first and second versions of the Act supervised the (Ring) circles, and in this amendment is to be replaced by a representative of the government for local social initiatives, which, according to the new provisions, could be established in cooperation with the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in order to activate local communities and communities in rural areas of the voivodship coordinators. Thank you very much, Member. The government's attorney for cases... Member, please proceed to the end. Just a moment, Your Marshal will allow it. ...local societies were established by a regulation of 14 January this year. So that the post of attorney was created to mention the existing act. So that on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I propose that all the wheels that operate in rural areas and not only can receive grants... Okay, thank you very much. You're making an amendment, aren't you? Thank you very much, and I am making this request. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u20	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Urbaniak will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u21	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about another amendment to the bill, a law that changes the bill. I have the impression that the Sejm is a little heroic about the problems he created earlier, the government and the Sejm. Already ad rem. The rural hostels themselves have, let's agree, a very long tradition, since 1866. In Piaseczno in Pomerania the first company of housewives was established. It is a small town near Anger. These organizations, traditionally women's, although we also have circles to which men belong, play a really great role in the life of the Polish village. That's something you should keep in mind all the time. It is the circles of rural hostesses that help to raise, as well as to form in the spirit of Polishness and patriotism of these youngest generations of Poles. Here is the great cultural role of these associations, especially for folk culture. In general, they promote traditions and promote a normal family. [[Applause]] It is such a relay, such a depositary of our national culture and it is understandable that these initiatives will be supported by the state. On the other hand, what should also be noted, already in 2018 a law was introduced concerning the circles of rural hostesses. Specific subsidies have been provided for these hostess's wheels, because they also have tasks as feminine, but they can be compared to voluntary firefighters. In 2018, we had elections. That's when the bill was created. In 2019 we also had elections and then there was an amendment of this law. We have elections again in 2020 and a revision of the Rural Housewife's Wheels Act is being made again. So I don't see such a long-term plan from the government to put in place a concrete, stable solution, but I do see the preparation of a new law every now and then, mostly to score polls. We have to be clear about this. Since 2018, this law has discriminated against certain rural housewives' wheels, because if any specific rural circles register with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, there can be no new wheels. I encourage you to change that. [[Applause]] Since the beginning of this term of office, none of the Confederation's amendments have passed through the Sejm... Get used to it. ...and we know that this is a political action, so I'm addressing the government: change it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u22	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Dobromir Sosnierz also on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u23	It is really hard to believe that the Republic needs the right brought to the level of agricultural circles and rural hostels. [[Applause]] Every time I think we're already digging into the bottom of this ocean of legislative absurdity, someone knocks from the bottom with this idea. What's next? I don't know. The rosary circles will be regulated, aquarium fish farmers' associations? Really, the sicker the country, the more laws in it, that's the truth. I don't mind - I don't think anybody mind - rural hostels' circles, these are respectable organizations, with a long tradition, praise them, but why the hell can't they act on exactly the same rules as all other associations in Poland? Why do we need a separate bill for this? Why should a taxpayer who doesn't belong to these groups of housewives pay contributions? Because the bottom line is, we all pay contributions to an organization that we often never see. Of course, in reality, these are pennies, which are merely meant to make such an impression, to psychologically make another group dependent on the government in the rhythm of subsequent amendments to this law. [[Applause]] And hence the diarrhea of these amendments. So I have an appeal to all rural hostesses and all other groups to which the government directs similar ideas: Don't get bought with your money, because each stick has two ends. Whoever gives it requires it. If we allow power to seem like we owe it to it to finance us, then let us not be surprised that it will try to command us at every turn. Of course, it's one big collective illusion, but that's pretty much how it works. The government promises everything one at a time. Today he promises housewives, tomorrow he will promise miners, footballers, artists, aquarelists and somebody else. And where will he get watercolors, footballers, miners and bakers? No. From the country housewives. It creates such an illusion system (the Bell) that everyone thinks it's the others who pay for it, and usually it's him who's the other one. And that's the case. Besides, the bill is, of course, discriminatory. Because I don't know why we're dealing with the circles of rural hosts, not the squares of rural hosts or urban triangles. I don't understand. Will all other associations be regulated in the same way? And that's my question. Thank you very much. We will move on to the questions in a moment, sir. Will we have philatelist societies for philatelists and philatelists according to a separate bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u24	Thank you very much. That concludes the statements. Let's get to the questions. I am closing the list of Members wishing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Ms Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition, will ask you as the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I encourage everyone to participate in the work of the Committee on Agriculture. There was an interesting committee meeting and it was interesting to talk about it. I have a question. Of course, you're all right, that's clearly the electoral bill: every year the election comes up, every year the money is promised. None of us have any doubt that the rural housewives want to be independent, well funded and the state budget can help them. However, the question arises, and that surprises me most, Minister. You spoke so nicely in the committee about the fact that you have given impetus to the circles of the country's hostess. The pulse was 120 years old, and the state destroyed the balance in these wheels. If there can be one wheel in one village and it can get money, and a wheel that runs 120 years and hasn't registered, it won't get money, in one village - I don't know if you were - it's really not fair. You divide Poles not only in cities, but also in villages, you divide Poles where you can, only to come here every year, Mr. Messenger, and say, Now the Law and Justice give money and be grateful, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause no one else did. Rural hostels' circles were not established in 2018, the rural hostels' circles were established 150 years ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u26	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u27	High Seym! We have learned in this Chamber that the empowerment of a non-governmental organization is about her being affiliated to a government agency. Mr. Chairman, there's no greater absurdity to come up with. Your attorney, you would have done the right thing if you had introduced this novel of equality between the rural hostels' wheels, i.e. No matter what legislation they registered on, they could all get their money. You would have had the credit then, and this is how you participate in the work of sharing and breaking the continuity of the rural hostel circles. I'm sure you know, and if you don't know, I'll tell you that the most local initiatives in the country come from the Social Fund. Did you know that the Polish State no longer pays the municipalities a refund of PLN 75 million, i.e. twice as much as this grant? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Next year it's going to be 85 million, next year it's going to be 150. That's what it looks like. Take care of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u28	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u29	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As has been said here, the housewives have been operating for 150 years, and the first wheel of the housewives of this name was founded in 1877. At the turn of all these years, the hostess's circles worked, supported and at the same time united the rural community. Circles of housewives pass on their experiences and knowledge to each other, their generations and women. They work with the Soviet Councils, volunteer firefighters and unite the entire rural society. And with this experience, you want to establish a law of coordinators who will support the activities of rural hostels in rural areas. Do you have a list of these coordinators yet? Are there appointed persons who will be these coordinators, and what tasks, Minister, are these coordinators to carry out? What will be the amount that you use to pay those coordinators (the bell), and what will the money be used to finance these tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u30	Thank you, Member. The next question will be asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Financial assistance to the rural hostel circles is very important. The rural hostels' circles are organizations that cultivate traditions and local customs, very much needed and deeply rooted in the local community. No one opposes the transfer of funds to these organisations. But is it necessary to create another administrative body, the government's representative for local social initiatives, that is, another secretary or undersecretary in the Ministry of Regional Policy? In the midst of the epidemic, you are talking about cuts in the administration, because you are well aware of the budget deficit and that there are social groups that need to be helped now. But on the other hand, you're creating new organs to fill your people. And my question is above all this: Has the current proxy not properly cared for the circles of rural hostesses and other social initiatives? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u32	Thank you, Member. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law provides for support for rural housewives' circles - only for rural housewives' circles. Yet we know that in rural and urban communities there are many NGOs who carry out tasks both for the local government and for the state and are waiting for such support. Are you planning to launch such support for these other non-governmental organisations as well? The Act also appoints regionals... regional representatives. Do you really - and you care - think that you will support these fantastic women to whom we bow beautifully and thank, regardless of political colors, do you mean the usual, the jobs for your own and the money for your own? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u34	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! For 150 years, rural hostess circles have been part of the cultural map of initiatives from Polish villages. And the fact that they're funded is very good. But I cannot understand how unfair, inappropriate and biased it is to divide one village into better and worse ones, into a circle of rural hostesses that was registered under the 2018 Act, and a circle of rural hostesses that, for example, operates for 60 years. For years these women have nurtured, supported, developed and helped culture, traditions. So? They don't get support and funding today. Why doesn't the village hostels in the municipality of Zakrzówek in Majdan-Grabina, which today celebrates 60 years, get this support, and the village in the same village that has been registered for a year, get it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You share neighbors, you share Poles. Funding should be available to all rural hostels. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u36	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there are around 21 thousand. rural hostels bringing together more than 1 million women. You have taken away their independence with your actions and made the possibility of obtaining financial support conditional on registration in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, leaving these unregistered without any help. Now you're bragging about more money, but you still can't solve their real problems. Why are you sharing the village housewives' wheels? Ladies have much regret for making them happy by force, but selectively. Women rightly complain that only one wheel can work in one village. You have prevented yourself from becoming a member of a circle operating in another village. Not to mention the bureaucracy they've faced. And so examples can be multiplied. I have a question: What is the purpose of entrusting the tasks carried out so far by the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises to the government's representative for local social initiatives? Why did you create it in January this year? Is that a position? Is there another place for the Pisiewics? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u38	Thank you, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u39	Mr. Private Mr. Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs... I appreciate any initiative that promotes the integration of women and makes women able to exchange their experiences and support themselves. Such a role is undoubtedly played by rural hostesses. But I hope that these additional funds will make women more able to exploit this potential. Maybe it's time for such organizations to promote regular cytology and mammography among women. Maybe they should also be a place where a woman can find support when she's a victim of family violence or when she's at home struggling with alcohol sickness. In cities it is much easier for such assistance, we know that, we have numerous NGO pro-women who, by the way, cut off funding. But it's harder in the country. The circles of the country hostess may change the atonement of our disbelief: don't tell anyone what's going on at home. We've already taken the first step. A few days ago, almost unanimously (the bell) we adopted a good law against violence, so let's move on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u40	Thank you. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that the government proposes to allocate at least PLN 40 million of financial assistance to the groups of rural hostels this year. It is important that these centres of development of local communities are co-financed. But at the same time it saddens the fact that this funding comes so late, almost mid-year, and just five days before the election, which gives rise to the suspicion that the circle environment of rural hostess is perhaps another environment that the PiS government treats instrumentally. That is why I ask: are you trying to buy the votes of women from the rural hostess circles with this gesture to vote for your presidential candidate? And if not, can the Minister promise us that he will increase the expenditure limit from the state budget for the development of rural housewives' circles within the annual budget, as in normal countries? Minister, please answer honestly: Is this a one-time pre-election sausage or a real, permanent support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u42	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The minister's mouth was polite to note that he gave impetus to the rural hostels' circles. I would very much ask the Minister to present in writing a list of those wheels that had to be activated. As I say, in writing, so that nothing escapes later. I am from the south and in my district, the district of Bielsko-Biała, in the districts of Cieszyński, Żywiec and Pszczyński there are dozens of circles, and they really work so that a number of other circles from all over Poland could probably be separated from these wheels. So either you're trying to black out the image, or there's really grounds, so please make a list of the wheels that need to be activated in writing. Second question. This law is a very clear and clear example of discrimination against women who have been members of the circles of rural housewives operating for 150 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question to the Minister, to the Government: When will the government end up with discrimination against those ladies who operate not in political circles called by law, Law and Justice, but in circles that have been operating in Poland for 150 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u44	Thank you very much. The Seym Law, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u45	Dear Marshal! Minister! Any help that goes to citizens who are able to organize themselves and do a lot of local tasks for the nearest community is worth the attention, worth the support. This is why we welcomed the information about the support of the rural hostels' groups this year with the amount of PLN 40 million. But Polish citizens, especially those who organise themselves, cannot be treated differently. Therefore, I ask the question: Why are the circles of rural hostesses that are registered as associations deprived of the possibility to participate in competitions announced by ARiMR? This is unequal treatment of Poles, i.e. entities that function. Secondly, what about the wheels of the country housewives registered at the farm wheels? They are also deprived of the possibility to participate in these competitions. Their tasks are very close. What about the activity of people who, especially in larger villages, decide to set up a few circles of housewives? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the villages are diverse. One last question. There is such an initiative in Lower Silesia, in the municipality of Osiecznica, in the village of Tomisław and Osieczów - the first association was established here: near the peasant as a response to activation. Why should we deprive the farmers involved who function and carry out their tasks? They may not be able to do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u46	It's been a while, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question often arises: How many buses can the government of Mateusz Morawiecki fit in? Correct answer: in three, because just as High Izbo, you have returned to the record of Beata Szydło - 121 members of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Today we have actually learned, I think most of you, that we have a government proxy for local social initiatives. That's, uh, I understand, Deputy Minister, isn't it? Yes. January 17th. I do not know how this function differs from that of the representative of the civil society government, because it is this representative who is subject to local social initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that this bill sorts. This law sorts out the circles of the country housewives, which have been for 150 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're fighting for women's rights. They're also fighting to make it worthwhile... They have won a place in society by supporting them by educating them, and today some of them are actually deprived of funding: only those persons and only those who have registered in the agency will receive such support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u49	God's greetings to all good housewives - rural, urban, all-galactic. Bravo! Indeed, it is legitimate to ask about hosts, it is justified to ask about people of other activities who have different residences, but you, the Żolibor Socialists, continue this tradition. Here I address all the good patriots who are so replete with these circles of country housewives. This tradition originates from a wretched person named Filipino Plaskowicka, a companion of Varyński. It was she at Skierniewice in 1877 who set up the first circle of village hostesses, which was notabene as a socialist jackpot under such a cover. This is your tradition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's then, that's then. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is how many additional offices you intend to create. When are you gonna try to activate the city housewives? What about those hosts who already activate and feel discriminated against? Shouldn't some special agent be involved in the action for discrimination or non-discrimination by one another. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u51	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Marshal. I will say, Your Marshal, if your Marshal speaks to me, Your Messenger. Can we go out like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u52	I'm sticking to the setup. But the messenger is also a form of... Time is running out, Member. I hope it's not mine. Rural women are the salt of the earth. For 150 years they have been gathered in the circles of rural hostess who care about social and cultural life. They're the backbone of the local community. Rural hostels need state support. But here are the questions. Why does the government only give them one-off forms of ad hoc assistance instead of introducing systemic support for rural hostels? Why does this ad hoc aid only receive wheels registered by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, rather than those that have long been in the framework of the machinery rings? This is a clear discrimination against numerous groups of rural housewives operating in such a formula often for many years. That is why I ask, Minister, will you extend the aid to all circles of rural hostess, no matter when they were created and in what formula do they operate without discrimination? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they receive assistance from a circle that is not registered by the agency? Anyway, why would they register when the government only wants to give them one-time support? There are no women better or worse. All women deserve help and support from the state - evenly, fairly and without discrimination. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation and appreciation as an activity for all the women in the circles of rural hostess working in agricultural circles registered in the National Court Register as ordinary associations and ARiMR. They play a very important role. By creating appropriate support mechanisms, the State should not share them. Action to build civil society counts. It is good that the State has created the possibility of simplified registration. It's a good thing you're helping. It is wrong that the State divides access to public funds due to the legal formula. Another government programme - Civil Initiative Fund. On the contrary, non-formal groups are encouraged: come, let us create civil society, let us implement specific projects for its activation, using the legal personality of other entities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not here. It's locked. Question to the Minister: What role will the coordinators play? The law provides for their appointment. I'd like a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u54	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Kulasek, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For nearly 150 years, rural hostels have been caring for Polish tradition and activating local communities. Peanut, Brodowo, Sampliwa - these are examples of the village where women took the fate of the local community into their own hands. At the same time, the rural hostels' circles pass on the local tradition to tourists visiting rural areas. That's what happens in Warmia and Mazury. I bow to our hostess. The State should support its activities, but also consult on the principles of support with stakeholders. Even in difficult times, power cannot give up dialogue with civil society. Hence my question: Why was there no public consultation with the groups of rural hostesses and other stakeholders? Unfortunately, not all local activists in rural areas could benefit from state aid. This applies especially to wheels operating within agricultural wheels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence my second question: Why does the law cover only selected circles of rural housewives, skipping other, often not less deserved? Please respond in writing, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u56	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is a good thing that the Plaskowice Philippines is mentioned in this room. We should call social and social activists here more often. [[Applause]] I will say, on the other hand, with regard to the law itself, that this is another recent amendment of the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. It seems that her intentions and regulations are right, but there are a few but, because she does not bear the biggest problem of wheels, i.e. too much bureaucratic requirements. Rural hostels often operate informally and, if already registered, are subject to a number of formal requirements. They must use a qualified electronic signature, they are registered with the National Court Register and also with the restructuring agency. It's already been mentioned today. My question is: Isn't it time to finally solve the basic problem of wheels, i.e. to create a uniform, simple and transparent structure and registration procedure (The Bell) and the formal handling of these wheels, so that the law is not an obstacle and an obstacle, but supports and encourages them to set up and operate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u58	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. We'll connect remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u59	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Unlike some of my previous speakers, I would like to begin by expressing my full approval for this project, which is another good proposal from the government, aimed at facilitating the functioning and performance of tasks by the rural hostels. These are organisations that, as we know, have a significant impact on improving the socio-occupational situation of women and their families, not only in rural areas but also in small towns. Rural hostels' circles, as we all know, carry out their goals and tasks in an invaluable way, nurturing and preserving our national and regional traditions, which is extremely important. Thanks to this law, in 2018 funds of over PLN 16 million were spent from the state budget for the implementation of applications submitted by these active organisations, and last year it was almost PLN 30 million. I would therefore like to ask if, in the Minister's opinion, the funds of PLN 40 million planned for the current year will be sufficient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u60	Thank you very much, sir. With another question I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the support coat for the rural hostels' circles PiS is trying to divide the Polish village, and not for the first time. Now he's trying to divide into those wheels that are new, those that are old, those that are registered, those that are not registered, those wheels that have money, and those wheels that don't have money. Why don't you give the money to all the village housewives? Is the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture that small or is it more about sharing? Why do you want to interfere with the history of the country housewives? The law suggests a different reading of the KGW shortcut. I have a request: do not attempt to attack the wojews and discredit their relations with the representatives of the rural hostess circles. Between fairy tales you can put attempts to make the KGW independent from the wójtów, because everyone knows that for years the county council has been supporting the KGW, TSOs and vice versa. The municipality could never function without their proper functioning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd rather have PiS bragging about his accomplishments, e.g. why the KGW get tickets from the IRS at the festivals where they try to sell their local products. Scandal! That's what happened in the Łowicki district, that's what happened in Tomaszowski, that's what happened in many other counties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] A scandalous situation, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u63	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The November 2018 Act has given many new possibilities for registering and functioning of rural hostels' circles. Those figures that the rapporteur spoke about really make an impressive impression. Then almost 6,000. groups of rural hostess have been registered with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In the area of Poddębicki County, my home county, there were exactly 41 such circles. That's really, ladies and gentlemen, very, very much. It is a small, 40 thousandth district, six municipalities are part of this district. 41 new active groups of rural hostels have been established for almost 2 years in the functioning of this law. You can really see it, you can hear it in the field, there are many opportunities to present yourself, many possibilities (The Bell) to present their products. I wanted to ask you, Minister, how many nearly 6,000. rural hostels' circles mean new, active members and members of rural hostels' circles in the country. This is probably a large number that has not been mentioned here today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u64	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u65	In the context of the discussion on the role and importance of the activities of the rural hostels, I would like to highlight a very important area of social life in the countryside - this is a problem of self-organization, an active participation in shaping this reality by villagers. I am thinking here not only of the circles of rural hostels, but also of voluntary firefighters, folk sports teams or agricultural circles. Of course, we are talking about the circles of rural hostesses whose role and contribution in maintaining traditions, in organizing cultural life, in raising children and shaping such an atmosphere are unique. I think they deserve a huge thank you for that. As it happens, I have the pleasure of observing this activity, and I know how important it is to villagers. However, I think that [[♪ The bell ♪]] local governments are very open and all local authorities are working to support the structures in their activity in the municipality, while the agency seems to have a bit of an office for rural hostels, although it should not do so, because it is an institution which has EU accreditation and has to follow certain procedures and rules in terms of supporting all activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u66	Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome. Before I give my vote to you, I have a great request to you and your fellow Members - to limit the discussions in the plenary room, because when there is so little of us, the sound is very loud and very disturbing to those who ask further questions. Let's respect each other. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam Agent! Ladies and gentlemen! In this room there were many warm words about the merits of the rural hostels' circles, about their traditions, about their activities for the benefit of local communities, but it turns out that this is not enough. Social activity of rural activists is worth more or less. Some will receive such support - this is the proposal in the bill - and others will not. That is why I have some doubts and specific questions. How many circles of rural hostels were in operation in Poland before the introduction of the law as regards registration and non-registration wheels, and how many wheels registered in ARiMR are new? How many circles were created after the introduction of this law, using the funding allocated to them? And the point of the situation: For what reason does the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives not cover all wheels operating in Poland, but covers only those registered in the ARIMR? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it turns out that one wheel is worthy of it, their tradition is worthy of appreciation, and the tradition of another wheel is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u68	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By representing the Podlaskie voivodship, I would like to ask two questions: What are the responsibilities of the coordinators of the voivodships referred to in the Act? Why, despite their optionality, did the bill include a record of their ability to appoint them? Will the position of voivodship coordinators be financed from the money pool provided for by the Act? Finally, I would like to ask that we do not divide the wheels into registered and unregistered wheels, but treat them equally. The point is, we don't share our neighbors because they're people living in the same towns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u70	Thank you, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u71	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! My questions: Did the rural housewives' circles make their own comments and reservations about the bill? If so, what were the reservations? Please respond in writing. Why haven't there been consultations on the bill? Epidemiology is not slowing them down. I mean, they can be done in correspondence. And I join this question, which has already been asked many times. The Polish right often refers to the importance of tradition. Why, then, are the circles of rural hostels with the longest tradition discriminated against? Or is it because a socialist founded it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u72	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions directly from members of the rural hostels' circles, which often ask them to me at meetings: Will the amendment of the law finally eliminate the divisions created in rural environments? It's about divisions caused by faulty records. Do we need more government representatives today with their salary, office, back office, other voivodeship coordinators and more resources for this purpose? On the other hand, my questions are: Why were the funds allocated to the activities of the wheels in the third year of operation of the law not planned in the budget, but still from the reserve? On what basis was it calculated that in 2020 the amount of PLN 40 million will be needed for the activities of the rural hostel groups, rather than PLN 20 million (The Bell) or PLN 90 million? The explanatory memorandum of the project does not indicate the resources for the activities of the voivodship coordinators. Within what structures would they operate, since today in each regional department there are appointed carers of the KGW, and that is rather enough, because there are 362 of them? Why create more posts, e.g. secretaries, drivers? Thank you, Member. Has the government carried out an analysis, or maybe an audit, of what the funds of previous years have been used for? The bill says... Member, time is up. ...for statutory purposes. Were they spent on this purpose? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u74	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Anna Gembicka, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u75	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives is a project expected by people working for the countryside, culture and traditions. The rural hostels' circles under the law from 2 years ago gained legal personality and a number of facilitations in their activities. It's very important, and I don't think it sounded good enough. The state brings everything to money, while the circles have gained legal personality, they have gained numerous facilitations: tax exemptions, facilitations in accounting, in selling products. I think that's the key factor why these ladies and these gentlemen decide to register the wheels. Today's project concerns, on the one hand, the delegation of tasks under the Act to the Government's representative for local social initiatives, on the other hand, the granting of assistance of PLN 40 million. Many questions have been raised on the basis of which these measures have been assessed. We have data from 2018, on the basis of which we can determine the growth among rural hostels' circles. Of course, we also carry out promotional measures and educational activities, because unfortunately, many people who fight against the circles of rural hostess... Unfortunately, contrary to all these assurances, the thanks of your Members, many local governments are simply fighting these circles, which is very sad. And here's what I'm gonna say: I'm meeting with the circles of the country housewives not only on the occasion of various anniversaries, holidays, events of all kinds. I see them every day, I have practically daily contact with them. They have my number, and if they doubt me, they'll contact me. It really is very sad when you call me, who says that you heard from your uncle, that if you register, you won't get any money, because before that it was the case that the uncle from one of the parties who was screaming the loudest here gave money to the wheels, yes, but you had to spend it in the shop of one of the activists of this party. [[Applause]] Where exactly is this situation? You're gonna color it. I invite you to Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. I'd be very happy to point out. And say that, you can't spread innuendo. Total bullshit. And it is very sad that unfortunately there are many such situations. [[A stir in the courtroom.]] Member, please. Excuse me, Marshal. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Anna Gembicka: There are many situations where, for example, The ladies are asking to meet practically under the cover of the night because they're afraid the uncle will take revenge. To be honest, it's unacceptable to me. Or the kind of voices you hear from the workers of the farm circles that they won't be invited to the harvest for registering. To be honest, it's unthinkable for me. I do not know if you spend a lot of time in the countryside, but I happen to be from such a small village and I know that harvest is one of the most important holidays for farmers, as well as for those who work in the circles of rural hostels. And it's very sad that you're just trying to stop the wheels from showing up at events like this. With regard to these various questions - most unfortunately did not concern this draft law at all - firstly, I would like to say that no one claims that the circles of rural hostess were created in 2018. We all know that they function, some have over 100 years of tradition, but some have been created in recent years. I think we should appreciate both these forms, both those wheels with a huge tradition, as well as those new wheels that have activated now. There's no list of coordinators, no one's gonna impose anything on the wheels, no one's gonna make circles of country housewives from the top, because they're gonna be on the committee, too. This is complete nonsense. Nor does the Act provide for the creation of a representative office for local social initiatives. That's from the text of the bill itself. As far as support for other NGOs is concerned, because such a question has also been raised, support has been provided for several years within the National Institute of Freedom. It's a few hundred million zlotys. We have made sure that the rural hostels' circles can also benefit from this support, because it is not only an opportunity to obtain the 3,000. zł, but it is also an opportunity to use various types of grants, competitions which are conducted e.g. by the National Freedom Institute. Plenipotentiaries in the restructuring and modernisation agencies of agriculture have been functioning (the bell) for 2 years now. This isn't a new office, so I'd like to straighten out that we're not creating any new offices. Another question. As far as these tasks are concerned, which circles of rural hostess are concerned, we are preparing a law and regulation in such a way that this freedom of spending is as broad as possible. That's what I'm talking about. We do not want to impose that you are to spend for this particular purpose, because the ladies in the country know exactly what to spend this money on, and they also do not need someone who will be in some organization over them and will tell them that they are going to pay a contribution here, and here they are going to spend it for this and that purpose. They know very well what this money is spent on, and such instruction is absolutely unnecessary. Mr Braun said that men are discriminated against. Men can sign up for country housewives, too, so I wanted to... And they are. And there are such wheels, exactly so that there is absolutely no discrimination here. Here's another thing. As I said at the beginning, this law, although the amendment concerns the transfer of funds, provides the entire legal basis for easier operation of the wheels. These solutions are adapted to the nature of their activities. We have in the third sector various kinds of organizations: we have regular associations, we have associations registered in the KRS, we have foundations, we have circles of rural hostels, some people operate informally. All these legal forms differ, but most importantly, they are adapted to their nature and each of these forms combines certain rights and obligations. Minister, please move slowly to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Anna Gembicka: Okay, then I'm done. Some of the questions were asked in writing, so we will also give them answers. To conclude, I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen who work in the circles of the country housewives from this place. You guys do really great things. What you're doing is appreciated. Without you all this cultural work, these traditions, material and intangible, would really be in jeopardy. You integrate your villages, you integrate your municipalities, your districts. Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Anna Gembicka: ...and thank you very much. For all your work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. And Mr Robert Telus as rapporteur for the committee. But please, sir, stick to the time, because we are already very late.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u77	Okay. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! There were a few questions, but I would've grouped them so I could answer them quicker. First of all, there were such questions as why we have to register with Arimr. Dear country, farmers who receive area payments must also register with the ARiMR. It's such a normal thing. In order to get that money paid, you have to register. It's so simple and so normal. I don't understand why you don't understand. I was reminded by this joke that if you want to win a lottery ticket, you have to send that coupon, just send that coupon. Here is the same situation that you need to register with Arimr. That you're criticizing this, I don't understand. The second group of questions was that we divide into better, worse, new, old. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't share anyone. All circles of country hostesses: and those in which men work, and those in which women work, all circles of country hostesses can... Ladies, ladies and gentlemen, who are working in the circles of the country housewives, do not listen to those who are thus abusing you. And somehow they're rebelling. All circles of rural hostess can register, and I know that they also benefit from these measures. These measures are prepared for you, and you don't have to be afraid of any uncle who scares and tells you to meet under cover of the night so he can't punish himself in some way. No, ladies, ladies and gentlemen, once you register, such measures will be, no matter what the general says. So we don't share anybody. This is the country you're trying to divide. All of them can. The other thing, there was this thing about the Social Fund. Dear Members of the Civic Platform, who refer to the Social Fund, I would like to remind everyone, not all of them were in the Sejm in 2009, that it was our law, the Law and Justice, which I had the pleasure of being the applicant, which was the first, and yours was After six months and together our laws were passed, so that it was our idea: the Social Fund, and it is good that it is, because it is very necessary and very well works. The bureaucracy that we impose bureaucracy. I am the one who proposed to the Member who was talking about this bureaucracy to try to register this near the country housewives as an association, and then she will see what bureaucracy it is, and then she will see what amenities it is that we are introducing this law, that we have introduced this law so that there is no bureaucracy. And, ladies and gentlemen, one thing all the time: that bill before the election. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform and of the Polish People's Party, I remind you that you have ruled for 8 years and for 8 years you have not given for the circles of the country's housewives a zloty. You didn't give one for eight years. Long, long, eight years. And now you're telling us that we give every year, and that's what it takes, 16, 29 and at the moment 40 million PLN? And you say before the election? Dear country, you could not afford 500+, nor 300+, nor to finance communication, nor to create Polish Post in the countryside, nor to create... The Member wants to take it out on himself. ... Will there be another bill, sir? ...rural pistols. You couldn't afford any social programs... We're talking about the country housewives. ...no programs for people living in the countryside, for communication. You were just able to finance the VAT mob. Mr President, will there be another bill next year? Nearly 300 billion zlotys that was on... You funded the VAT mob. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are financing people living in the countryside, ordinary families, ordinary families who need such support. And these are the programs we're going to run. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You may scream as much as you want, but we stole that money. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But to the VAT mob. [[Applause]] Lie! And not like you, folks, you've been giving these mobs VAT and stealing... The Member is taking it out on himself. A lie for a lie. ...of ordinary families. You've been stealing from ordinary families, you've been stealing money. And that's why we're gonna give. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a matter of war. That's where the Minister said it already. I don't want to name names, and I don't want to say which uncles. Tell me. But there are uncles who really do everything they can to keep the country housewives' wheels from registering. Finally, there was one question from Mrs PSL, whether we were checking whether they were intentional or not. Really, believe the people, believe the village hostels, believe the housewives, believe the Poles. Poles know what to spend money on, and Poles spend these resources so that ordinary families benefit from it, so that rural areas benefit from it, and so that civil society, which you are so beautifully referring to, works. We believe in the crowbars of the village hostess. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and we will support the circles of rural hostesses, because they are very important for us, for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws (prints No 207 and 351). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws, print No 207. The Sejm at its 5th meeting on 12 February 2020 in accordance with Article 9 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission considered the above draft law at its meetings on 13 February and 5 May and the subcommittee was standing for monitoring of the tax system on 11 March 2020. The committee considered the amendments tabled and discussed the proposal extensively. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the draft law contained in print No 207. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u80	Thank you very much, Member. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Piotr Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u81	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws, prints No 207 and 351. High Izbo! The bill submitted amends several laws, namely the Personal Income Tax Act, so-called. the PIT Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the CIT Act, the Tax Order, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, the Goods and Services Tax Act, so-called. VAT Act, Employment Promotion Act and Labour Market Institutions Act and Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Order and some other laws. The changes that are included in this project, in prints No 207 and 351, are changes that adapt the income tax rules to the new Polish Classification of Products and Services. This classification is the classification that was established in 2015. These changes also limit the number of annual PIT-40A calculations drawn up by the pension authorities for taxable persons whose calculation of the pension authority results in an excess tax, and are provisions comprehensively regulating the taxpayer's claim to the pension body not to reduce by 1/12 the tax reduction amount. There are also changes in this proposal that clarify and complement the existing rules. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I would like to stress that the changes contained in these draft laws do not affect or affect the revenue of the public finance sector. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the solutions put forward by the government and will vote in favour of the draft print laws 207 and 351. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u82	Thank you very much, sir. The declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to the High House Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the draft law in print No 207 and 351. The draft law amends seven laws, mainly tax. What are these changes, and what are they about? This proposal in most of the regulations improves the previously adopted laws, some of which have been adopted in the last 6 months. All this is due to excessive haste during the legislative process, which in recent years does not meet the basic requirements and principles that are necessary for the creation of a good, stable law. This causes many serious problems in the application of this law and many errors and irregularities arise. They are on the agenda and taxpayers are in huge trouble with this. How, then, can we build the trust of Poles in the rule of law? The answer to that question is important. I'm getting to the bottom of this. The first objective of the contested law is to adapt the income tax legislation to the new Polish Classification of Products and Services, which entered into force on 1 January 2016. There is no doubt about the proposal to adapt the rules. This is necessary because the current situation is very burdensome for taxpayers who are forced to interpret different laws on their own. However, the question arises as to why it took so long. The government needed as many as 4 years to agree with the Central Statistical Office to adapt the regulations on the Polish Classification of Products and Services to tax law. This is absolutely incomprehensible because everyone sitting here, in this room, we know that there was a lot of time in the Seym to deal with it, but the government was putting off this problem, putting it off. Another very important issue for taxpayers. The bill included - and I stress - the issue of the wide use of the postal service for the delivery of electronic printouts concerning tax matters. The postal operator and persons acting on his behalf shall have extensive access to information covered by the tax confidentiality. At the same time, no safeguards or measures are envisaged to protect these data, which are particularly sensitive. For example, recent events on ballots show that there is a great risk of leaking information that is a tax secret. However, this method of service has already been voted by the Sejm majority on the occasion of the vote on the COVID-19 Act and this proposal does not contain this. However, this error must be corrected. We cannot risk this risk for Poles. That is why I am making an amendment on behalf of the Civic Coalition concerning the deletion of this item from the act on COVID-19. A significant part of the bill is devoted to repairing errors, removing obvious errors, introducing clarifications. A few examples. We have an art adaptation. 294 Tax Order to the provisions of the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. We've been changing this bill a lot lately. Mistakes, on the other hand, have arisen. Here's another thing. The VAT Act changed the incorrect name of the Head of National Tax Information to the appropriate one. There is a change in the Tax Order by extending the definition of a declaration which currently raises many doubts about the legal status of reports, etc. There are many examples, and I will not discuss them. But it just proves a great hurry, a great mess and mistakes. These errors and ambiguities would not have happened if greater care had been taken in legislative work. I am astonished to read in the explanatory memorandum, quote: When assessing the impact of the proposed VAT Act on micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, it should be pointed out that the proposed amendment will require taxpayers to be more careful with regard to the selection of counterparties and the verification of their tax status, which will increase the taxpayer's commitment to fulfilling tax obligations. It's a pity that a taxpayer is required, not a ministry. It is also justified, in the explanatory memorandum, that this will contribute to simplifying and sealing the tax system, which has absolutely nothing to do with this and does not exist in this project at all. Tax law should be stable, clear and understandable, without any question of interpretation. Taxpayers claim such a right. Let's respect the rights of taxpayers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u84	Thank you, Member. Correction, I get it, right? I'm making an amendment. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Monica Falej will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Left Club a position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Tax Act. The proposed solutions can be divided into three sets of rules. Firstly, these are provisions aimed at adapting the income tax rules to the new Polish Classification of Products and Services of 2015. The second group consists of provisions limiting the number of annual tax calculations, so-called. PIT 40-A, drawn up by the pension authorities for taxable persons whose calculation of the pension body results from an excess tax payment, and the provisions comprehensively governing the taxpayer's application to the pension body of 1/12 of the tax reduction amount. The amendment extends the effectiveness of the application submitted by the taxpayer for the following years until its withdrawal and indicates that the pension authority is required to take account of the withdrawal lodged during the month of submission by the taxpayer or at the latest in the following month. The third group consists of other amendments supplementing and clarifying the existing rules. The fact that the government's tax regulation project doesn't vote until today, almost at the last minute, is taking place. I would remind you that the regulation of the Council of Ministers on the matter concerned entered into force on 1 January 2016. As a result of the omission of this amendment from 1 January 2021, there would be no grounds for recourse to the new classification in the tax legislation. It is a purely technical law adapting tax legislation that improves clearing activities, although it does not improve the transparency of tax rules alone, and even obscures them. It regulates detailed records. The government presents this law after more than 4 years of waiting for regulation. Better late than never. However, it is regrettable to note that this is another piece of legislation that raises multi-area questions about which there is confusion. This is a weak legislative proposal. During the environmental consultation phase, many industries have put forward proposals for changes and clarification of the provisions. The fact that the regulation is unclear indicates that the Legislative Office has in many cases indicated area reliability for specific requests. You're creating a law that's unclear, incomprehensible to professionals, let alone people to whom it's supposed to include. I call for honesty in my legislative work. The law must serve citizens and citizens. Entrepreneurs expect a simple tax system. The quality of the law is also its clarity and precision and the timing of its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u86	Thank you, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Mr Czesław Siekierski to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's bill concerns an important area of our civil, socio-economic life. It makes a certain arrangement of tax matters in a number of laws in this area: the PIT-owska Act, the CIT Act, the Tax Order, the Roar Act or the VAT Act. In general, it is a technical law, although it is worth saying some things by the way, because it is not only the adaptation of tax regulations to the new Polish Classification of Products and Services, which was adopted in 2015, so the preparation time, as Members have already mentioned, was extremely long. It's a shame we're doing this in a hurry now, but that's life. As I said, this law is not substantive, it does not change the rules of taxation. On the other hand, what I pointed out is that it introduces a certain assignment of new symbols. This is of course extremely important because, as I said at the outset, we are all very sensitive to tax matters. Therefore, it is important that this law will give a chance to reduce the number of annual PIT calculations or introduce a number of additions and clarify the rules. I have talked about some delays, but more important to me is that this bill will help taxpayers, make more easier, force some correctness and contribute to tax security, which is extremely important to me. I think it's important for every taxpayer. Finally, I would like to point out that some of the amendments that were proposed in the draft law, which were subsequently adopted during the work of the subcommittee or committee, had to be omitted, since they had already been included in the COVID laws, so it was difficult to repeat them now. Finally, certain rules are being introduced for the duration of the epidemic, which is right. And finally, there are doubts about the time limits. Although we discussed them and adopted them earlier at first reading in committee more than 6 weeks ago, some were supposed to apply from 1 April, it is good that changes have been introduced since 1 July or even since the end of the year. Of course, the finance department explains that these changes have been consulted and known to entrepreneurs and meet the expectations of entrepreneurs, so you have to hope that this implementation process will be much, much better than the preparation process itself, which has been dragged very hard, which probably does not serve the procedure, but hopefully contributed to the improvement of correctness. Despite all these criticisms, we believe that this draft law should be adopted. We support the amendment tabled by the Member. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Russian Emperor Nicholas I did not bother to take over the Polish throne, but sent General Bajczek, who gave a throne speech on his behalf, in which there was one sentence about taxes. It sounded as follows: tax matter is difficult and important, but stability is the most important thing, so we will observe the situation carefully and after a year we will issue a bill that will never be changed again. Well, about 10 years ago, I found that in the Third Republic of Poland the tax laws had already been amended 300 times. I think it's gonna be 500 now, off the hook, 'cause I've already stopped counting, ladies and gentlemen. And people don't know what's gonna happen to them. My previous speaker said it was such a bill of order, but it still contains important changes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the prominent socialist thinker is asleep. Charles Marks said: There is only one way to destroy capitalism - taxes, taxes and taxes again. Neomarksists who currently rule in the European Union, Poland, etc., do only one thing - they destroy this capitalism with taxes, taxes, taxes. And, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, the first President of the Supreme Court of the United States in 1901 said that the tax authority was the power of destruction. And that's how 300 or 500 times we've tried to destroy people by taxing them. The Confederation does not know whether the tax bill after this change will be better or worse than the previous one, and we will therefore abstain because we cannot assess it. For the time being, we ask you to take into account this change, that unfortunately, by taxing people, we are destroying entrepreneurship. Excessive taxes destroy it completely, and income taxes are the worst kind of taxes because they punish for work. If someone's working, they pay the tax. The tax bill is you're working, pay the fine. You work well, pay a high fine. We're against that kind of philosophy. A friend of Urbaniak's is quite yet, I hope, to explain. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u90	Thank you very much, sir. And just announced by Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u91	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Government bill on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax, on corporate income tax... on certain income generated by individuals - the name itself is complicated. Well, the fundamental changes that are taking place here are the possibility, for example. non-compliance with liability rules when taxpayers make payments to accounts that are not those official accounts reported to public authorities, e.g. in the case of VAT. All right, that's a plus. Compared to what's in today's legal state, it's a plus. Introducing transfer possibilities e.g. receipt by electronic means is also an improvement, okay. However, the problem lies somewhere else. First of all, as my previous speaker mentioned - Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, you change taxes, change the law hundreds of times. And the entrepreneurs themselves - and your government knows it very well... I represent Pomerania myself, I talk to entrepreneurs, at the same conversations he was even. Minister Sellin. We are discussing and the fundamental problem which is now, in a time of crisis, is and which is seen by entrepreneurs, is the split payment that you have introduced, i.e. the split payment, keeping part of the money in banks, so that banks can turn it around and lend it to the government. And the second thing is the tax billing method. You don't use it, and entrepreneurs have been talking about it for years. Think a little bit and take advantage of what the entrepreneurs themselves are telling you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u92	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I am closing the list of Members wishing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Hanna Gill-Friday, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The processed project may look boring and innocent, but the PiS wouldn't be himself if he hadn't put a face on it. This law proposes the transfer of secret tax data to citizens and citizens of Poczta Polska. We've already deleted this at the committee meeting. This was done not because he was angry, but because earlier this throwaway managed to push through in the first act about COVID. Ha, ha, ha! Today the Polish Post has already our PESEL-e, secret tax records, maybe shoe numbers. This morning, during the check I carried out at UODO with Mrs Monica Falej, we were surprised to find that this institution, intended for the protection of personal data, does not know anything about what happens to our data after the transmission of our data to the Polish Post Office. That's why the Left is proposing an amendment to remove mail access to our secret tax records. [[Applause]] Extreme right hand applauded.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u94	Thank you. Another question - Mr Paweł Krutul, the club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As an entrepreneur with nearly 20 years internship, I have the following questions. Today's rules are important for many entrepreneurs. Tax settlements are often more or less awkward for many economic activities. During the crisis, financial liquidity is crucial. Therefore, the Left submitted a draft law on the financing of the costs of permanent entrepreneurs in conditions of economic threat following the occurrence of Coronavirus. The project involves financing the costs of permanent entrepreneurs from the state budget up to an amount not exceeding 50 000. PLN per month for a period of 6 months. Electricity, gas, rent, lease. I would like to ask: What is the position of the Ministry on this law, and what will it take during the parliamentary work? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u96	Thank you very much. And Mr Zdzisław Wolski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u97	Hello, Marshal. Hello, fellow Members. Nobody likes to pay taxes, neither individuals nor economic operators, but if you already pay, you want to feel that the government is using money properly, as well as the feeling - and this is extremely important - the sustainability of legal solutions. We're changing seven laws today. Changes are made all the time and too late. Once something's over, the government's trying to catch up. We are talking here, I will not repeat, about the international classification of goods and services. She expired at the end of the previous year. We extend, adjust - a few years too late. It's the same with PIT. Several times a year, this law on individuals is being amended. I have a question for the government: When will the government start in due course and ultimately introduce tax regulations so that there are no constant changes in the rules? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's bad for the economy, bad for individuals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u98	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u99	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Change is after change. We're improving the rules we've just adopted today. In fact, a horse with a row of those who keep up with these changes. In this context, however, it is becoming increasingly important that we do not know where and why the new Tax Order. Assumptions adopted in 2015 by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, the PiS government approved and sent to the Sejm in 2019. And that ordination died. It is worth vacuuming it and I call for it, especially since today we could use solutions that were included at least in the first version of this ordination, concerning information... It is about the sovereign forms of functioning of the tax administration, such as information, consultation, the tax officer's agreement with the entrepreneur (the bell) and the legal protection of the taxpayer, who for this information, this consultation or this agreement... Thank you very much, sir. ...to comply. I ask: When will this ordination finally go to the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u100	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u101	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have a simple and simple question: Has the Polish Post become a special service to monitor citizens for the government? Because the powers you pass on to Poczta Polska are so incredible that it is amazing. First, you gave Poczta Polska all our personal data, including PESEL numbers, which for unknown reasons was omitted by the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. Now it turns out, by the way, that they also got access to the tax secrets, which is to all the documents that we send to the IRS, to all the data concerning our controls. Why should Polish Post have access to such information, not only Polish Post, but also all agencies that work for it? We're not authorized to do that. We have tabled an amendment deleting these powers and we expect the Sejm to be unanimously [[♪ The bell ♪]] She'll take it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u102	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The delay on this bill is the key word. This delay is a few years of delay with these regulations. But in a tax context, it takes on a completely different and broader meaning. Minister! For many months, businesses have been complaining for many weeks that the funds they spend on VAT, both in a split payment and in another traditional formula, are behind the tax authorities' accounts and tax offices are doing their utmost to ensure that both in this accelerated and ordinary manner they do not return the funds that are coming from VAT. And here's the question: Is it true that this is due to instructions from the Ministry of Finance, which aim to pay as little as possible VAT to businesses? As I say, this happens both in this accelerated mode and in the ordinary mode. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the last day, entrepreneurs are informed that any irregularities have been detected, and there is a refusal to return them. When are you gonna stop this? When will you start returning VAT to businesses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will quote three passages from your justification for the law: the bill aims to remove the inaccuracies in the VAT Act of August 2019, to clarify the provisions of the Tax Order concerning individual tax accounts and - my favorite one, because it is probably the most complex - to remove the inaccuracies resulting from the adoption of the amending act of 9 August 2019. I do not blame you for wanting to systematize this, but I have a question about political responsibility. The stability of the law is the basis for the good functioning of each entrepreneur. I know that as the person who was the entrepreneur. There's nothing worse than hiring experts to keep analyzing new rights. If there are new laws all the time, and here we have an amendment to the 2019 laws, which is just... Changes in seven laws. If that's how it's gonna work over and over again, [[♪ The bell ♪]] then every entrepreneur will be burdened by the fact that he must employ more people to analyze and interpret laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u106	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u107	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, in accordance with the provisions of the Tax Order, there are two types of service: the first - for the receipt, the second - for the official attestation of receipt. The Law of 31 March 2020 has already introduced some changes, including: in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 144b Tax Order. The purpose of the amendments described, visible in both laws, is to introduce a hybrid service which enables the postal operator and its employees to inspect consignments containing information covered by the tax confidentiality. Therefore, I have a question: Why is regulations being introduced again recently to allow the postal operator to see sensitive information? Do we want the postal operator's employees to have information covered by the tax confidentiality? And the most important question is: Is this another element of surveillance of Poles and Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u108	Mr... The next question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bill, changes in tax in Poland. However, I would like to point out that this year, the changes in personal income tax have already taken place five times, last year - twenty times, and as far as VAT is concerned, we have introduced changes in VAT eight times. Some of these changes are due to the epidemic, it is justified, some are amendments. However, some provisions on the justification of the VAT Act are of concern to me, as we read that the taxpayer is required to be more careful with regard to the selection of counterparties and the verification of their tax status. I ask: Is this the role of the entrepreneur - verify? Should an entrepreneur work, earn or verify? Or is it supposed to equip itself with a lie detector? How is he supposed to do that? This is not an entrepreneur's role. In my experience, more than 20 years of business, I don't know how to verify contractors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who may or may not be a good taxpayer. And that's the question I'm asking the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u110	Thank you, Member. And Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] But I'm asking you to keep your bench calls quiet, because your voice is really spreading, and you're disturbing your friends and clubmates, and I'd like to point out. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You gotta hit the alarm. Postal Operator Poczta Polska obtains access to information covered by tax secrets. This is an unthinkable thing, ladies and gentlemen. Polish Post has our PESEL at the moment, has full information on many sensitive issues concerning each and every one of us, in many cases already has access to the electoral census, even though the electoral code is clear: the electoral census is drawn up only in duplicate - for the municipality and for the district committee. At the moment, you want to equip this company of the Treasury with data, information covered by the tax confidentiality. It's very dangerous. It is also very dangerous that millions of zlotys are spent every day preparing the Polish Post for the election on 10 May. These are issues related to the purchase of urns, issues related to the purchase of bags... Question, sir. ...issues related to the IT system and other elements that are secret and serve at the moment... Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. ...so that these elections can take place. This election isn't gonna happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u112	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You have already accustomed VAT taxpayers to regular changes to the rules. Before they learn to apply one rule correctly, a new one or an update of what has recently been introduced appears. Unfortunately, this is the law in this House, but by introducing the anti-tax avoidance clause to include hypothetical interest costs in income costs, you tighten the screw on businesses, especially now that we have pandemic time, which has affected business people to a large extent. Another issue is the delivery of letters by means of a hybrid service. How will you guarantee the security of converting an electronic document into a letter delivery by operators? Whether the data will be processed in accordance with the guidelines [[♪ The bell ♪]] ensuring the use of GDPR? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u114	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We have tabled an amendment to this bill which deletes this postal service. We waive the postal service for the provision of sensitive tax data to taxpayers. You are aware that this availability of data, this confidentiality is in no way secure. There's no means of protection. I believe that we should accept our amendment - which I very much call for - and in the meantime adapt the law in such a way that our tax data is safe. What happens if there is such a scandal, the leak of tax data resulting from the Polish Post service? What are the consequences? What will be the credibility? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish government and Polish Ministry of Finance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u116	Thank you, Member. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is discussed, among others, clarifies the existing rules or removes remaining doubts. Entrepreneurs complain all the time about the fact that there is a law that is unclear. It is good that sometimes reflection comes and certain regulations are corrected. Therefore, I have the following question to the government: Can we not immediately prepare the rules so that no one has any doubts about what is going on? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u118	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your work is impressive. On the one hand, there's some unbelievable latanin, and you say that you're putting patch on patch, you're getting something out there in these antivirus specials, you've smuggled in some sort of magazine, so you don't have to deal with it this time, but on the other hand there's an incredibly far-reaching thought, mysterious in your far-reachingness. I recommend to our esteemed fellow countrymen the reading of this law, because how beautifully this law shows how much concern for our temporal existence the legislator comes down to. In this bill, ladies and gentlemen, among others. products of folk-type underwear are taken care of, excluding bras, corsets, harnesses, stocking belts, etc. - in the bill (the bell), bravo - and on the other hand there is transport, attention, aviation and space. Reading that air and space transport... Question, sir. Prospectively thinking legislator predicts that there will be this space transport in Poland, which I am very happy for. Question, sir. I'm asking if we have any of his seeds somewhere, because if he's not here... Okay, thank you very much, time's up. ...then you're able to vote the next bill out in five hours, carry it out, rescind it. It reminds me that... Thank you very much. One last word, Marshal. Last one, sir. It reminded me that in the Soviet Union, before he was still called Soviet, and he was Bolshevik, Felix Dzierżyński was at the head of such an association for bringing communism to the undiscovered... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...even planets. So I'm asking about space transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u120	No, sir, let's not really go this way. Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In the context of the debate on the Personal Income Tax Act, I would like to ask you about the state of play of the Ministry of Finance on the creation of legal opportunities for the distribution of 1% personal income tax on more than one non-governmental organisation. For 2018 in 2019 taxpayers transferred PLN 875 million, 14.5 million of taxpayers took advantage of this possibility. Average deposit of this 1% That's 60 PLN. Jerzy Kwieciński, then Minister, in the Ministry of Finance's information, encouraged these funds to be given to a public benefit organisation. Many taxpayers now in the reporting period ask whether they can transfer their 1% for more than one organization. At the moment, this is not possible, so I would like to ask if the Ministry of Finance is currently working on the possibility to transfer 1% tax in the following year. a tax for more than one public benefit organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u122	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the problem which was most frequently reported, in connection with which an amendment was tabled, namely the issue of Polish Post, which supposedly would have access to secret tax data. Some of your fellow Members also asked questions about how packages or letters delivered by the Polish Post will be protected from opening them and their content by the postal staff. So I'm in a hurry to explain which one's gonna be a little technical. It will certainly shed light on the technique by which this certainty will be achieved. So that by way of admission, the process which will be initiated in cooperation with the Polish Post will be completely safe and will not lead to the fact that wrong persons will have access to tax information of taxpayers. A letter to the taxpayer is created in the National Tax Administration system. There this letter is signed, and then via an encrypted link it is sent to a dedicated encrypted server of Polish Post together with so-called. the control file. The control file shall indicate to which address the consignment must be delivered and how many pages it consists. From this server, the Polish Post machine downloads the file and sends it to the printing and certification machine. This machine prints the magazine, folds it and places it in the envelope it closes. The machine also prints the address on the envelope from the control file. Within a minute, even a few hundred such shipments will be printed and enveloped. After performing the service, the file containing the data covered by the tax confidentiality is deleted from the server. During the whole process there is no physical opportunity to get acquainted with the content of the letter by the Polish Post employee. Such a situation could only potentially occur in the event of a failure of the printing-compacting machine, e.g. in the case of a paper cut. Then the Polish Post employee would have to remove the card from the printer, possibly partially printed, and could potentially read it. It should be noted that a similar situation may also arise if traditional mail services are used, e.g. When the registered letter is transported, the envelope is torn open or smeared. So that in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance there are none of your threats. The process is automatic and completely safe. We kindly ask you to reject the amendment you tabled. I will refer to the other questions of your fellow Members. How to verify counterparties. Is it the task of the entrepreneur to monitor the persons with whom he cooperates and to make sure that they are reliable? According to the Ministry of Finance, the focus of the entrepreneur on business activity is crucial, especially now, at the time of COVID-19. E.g. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance made available to entrepreneurs the service dedicated to them, which is split payment. By transferring VAT in the case of transactions to a split account, the taxable person ceases to be responsible for the possible tax dishonesty of the counterparty, so that he is completely safe. Are the funds on the split accounts frozen? This is where you have to put it, too. As early as July 2018, when this service was introduced, it was possible to pay VAT to counterparties from the split account. From October 2019 you can also pay from the split account other public-legal debts, income taxes, excise duties, customs duties or ZUS. If the trader wishes to use the funds collected in the split account for other purposes, he may apply to the tax office. As a rule, the average waiting time for the release of funds is 10 days. So that in a situation where there is no doubt, it can be said that funds are released practically overnight. The average is increased by a number of taxpayers, for whom doubts actually arise. As regards the VAT spot method, it is already available to a small VAT taxpayer. 90% VAT taxable persons have access to it and use it only a little over 0.5%. What does that tell you? This is due to the fact that the spot method is very beneficial for those taxpayers whose counterparties delay payments, while it is detrimental for those who themselves have liquidity problems - it further deepens them. So that it is not a golden means and a tool of rescue for entrepreneurs (the bell), on the contrary, it is a double-edged sword, which can make their situation even worse. In relation to entrepreneurs who have liquidity problems - especially now - and problems with contractors who do not pay them dues, special solutions were introduced by the COVID laws. Since the beginning of this year there has been a relief for bad debts, which has also been changed for COVID time so that it protects creditors in a special way. First, they retain the right to deduct a claim they have not received. The debtor is not obliged to include it in the tax base. Moreover, the creditor may do so not within a normal period of 3 months, but in a month. I'm gonna go over some other questions. Tax Ordination - the project did not die. In view of the principle of discounting the work of the Sejm, the project will again have to go through the entire government path. We hope that he will be sent to the Sejm as soon as possible. Given the burning needs of the COVID-19 epidemic, the moment at which it will be implemented is currently being postponed in some way over time, while it is still one of the priorities of the Ministry of Finance. As for the PKWiU, the adjustment of this change from 2008 to the one from 2015 - it is indeed a technical change, while it is a technical change which was postponed over time, taking into account many other projects carried out at that time in the Ministry of Finance. The members of the Confederation also drew attention to issues relating to the level of taxation. Since 2016 an unprecedented tax reduction process has taken place in Poland... You gotta be kidding me, you gotta be kidding me. ...starting with a sharp increase in the tax-free amount for PITs: from 3,000. PLN first up to 6,000, then up to 8,000. zł. 30 new taxes. There was a doubling of employee income costs last year, a reduction in the first income tax rate from 18% to 16%. And, most importantly, total income tax exemption for young people up to 26 years old. In the case of corporation tax - reduction first to 15% , later up to 8%. The most innovative projects affected by the IP Box benefit will be taxed, or actually already taxed, at a rate of 5%. In total, according to various calculations, also made in the Ministry of Finance, various tax reductions and reductions led to a reduction of the Polish budget revenue by about PLN 20 billion. This is 20 billion PLN, which remained in taxpayers' pockets thanks to tax reductions. With regard to the 1% distribution for a public benefit organisation for more than one organisation, work is already under way at the Ministry of Finance, we are conducting research on the European and global benchmark, other countries, on the number of organisations open to sharing this 1%. Someholds were introduced in different countries for a minimum of 1% which could be divided. We also hope that this work will be completed as soon as possible and we will introduce this possibility from next fiscal year, i.e. for the annual accounts for 2020. If I haven't answered any of the questions, we're ready to answer... Space transport. We'll answer in writing. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-sejm-11-3.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for May 5th this year. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 6 May 2020, by 3 p.m. 10. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 54]]
