ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u1	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a request for a break in the session of the Sejm with a view to convening the Seniors' Convention and adding to the agenda a point concerning the examination of the draft law which the Left has submitted and which has not been procedated for several days, which involves providing 75% of the funding of the jobs of each Pole and each Polish woman. Today, Poles have witnessed disgraceful trade fairs, shameful deals between Prime Minister Gowin and Prime Minister Kaczyński. This House should be engaged in decent work for Poles who are losing their jobs today, while today Jarosław Gowin proposes a change of constitution, a change of fundamental law. Let me remind you that this constitution is not only for good times, but also for bad times, and it is not the time for digging up the constitution, it is not the time for tampering with the fundamental law. Get to work, government, no deal, no deal. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u2	Thank you, sir. Mr President, first of all, I would like to inform you that at today's meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention, I have announced that we will call the Convention and the Bureau again to find out what will be on the agenda. So this is a bit premature. Can we not vote on it in this regard? I said that there would be another Bureau meeting. Do you want me to vote on this request for a break? Yes, I'd like us to vote. Well, in that case, since a request for interruption has been made, we will proceed with the vote. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 207 - for, 193 - against, 3 stopped. I believe the motion has been accepted. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a five-minute break. But I will not call the Senior Convention because this is my right. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 41 hrs. 13 min 46]] There's already a transmission. We checked. I'm reopening the session. Formal proposal, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u3	I bow, God bless you. Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the Sejm be adjourned until the marshal restores his seriousness. It is completely ridiculous - to call the High House, at the same time putting out a work plan for the next hour and announcing that this work will be interrupted again so that your marshal learns what is the further sequence of scenarios in which your marshal has played one of the leading roles, but is not privy to the full drama of these events and therefore has to learn from time to time what is to be. So get it together, ladies and gentlemen, don't expand this circus scene in the Sejm building. Let's prolong this break so that you can get along with each other, whether the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Smolensk liar Gowin, starts his presidential campaign (the bell) or ends it. Thank you, sir. Did you file a formal motion for adjournment until when? Request for a break to convene the Senior Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u4	No, sir, then I will not put this proposal to the vote because it is the same as the proposal that we voted on just a moment ago. And Mr Boris Budka, the last formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u5	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion to adjourn until Monday. Until then, I expect that, in accordance with the declaration and announcement by Mr Jarosław Gowin, the election cannot take place on 10 May, the Prime Minister of the Republic will fulfil his constitutional duty, submit his application and introduce the state of the natural disaster. It is the only constitutional possibility to sanction this lawlessness which is currently taking place. And the other thing. I ask you, Marshal, to put a bill on the agenda that guarantees compensation to all those who have been deprived of their job for a long time and who are losing their jobs. We've wasted a few hours on your shoving. The Sejm is being treated by you. People expect specific help (the bell) while once again you are dealing with internal games. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u6	Thank you, sir. A formal request was made to postpone the sitting until Monday. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting until Monday will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 225 was for, 227 against, 1 abstained. The motion was rejected. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes following the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020, print No 315. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 (prints Nos 313 and 315). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific solutions to support the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the presentation of COVID-19 in 2020. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading on 31 March of this year. In this first reading of the government project, which contains 35 articles, four amendments have been tabled, which concerned either a complete or a partial amendment of those provisions. All these amendments were accepted. The other provisions of this law were covered by a very long, substantive discussion with the government representative of the Minister of Finance and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak. The Legal Office of the Sejm was also very involved in this work. After a substantive discussion and a vote, the Public Finance Committee shall present and request the High House to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u8	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u9	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on special arrangements in support of the implementation of operational programmes following the presentation of COVID-19 in 2020, print No 313, and the report of the Public Finance Commission, print No 315. It is a law for the current time necessary for the implementation of programmes using European funds, for the implementation of operational programmes. In view of the difficulties encountered in the implementation of these programmes in relation to the epidemic, it is necessary that beneficiaries do not have to bear the consequences of the various cases, inter alia. deadlines for submission of applications, billing, but also the way in which projects are carried out. Examples of projects include partnerships, foreign trips, etc. Everything has been cancelled, sometimes it has already been in advance, so it is difficult for all design assumptions to be realised. So these particular circumstances that arise are, in the case of beneficiaries, the basis for making those records more flexible. What is worth pointing out is that this law emphasizes that the rigour of using European funds in general is not mitigated at all, only each time the right or authorisation to mitigate or otherwise treat both beneficiaries and the managing body may concern only those projects affected by the epidemic. Therefore, only in the event of a legitimate impact of the epidemic can the beneficiary, the managing authority or the implementing authority be treated differently. As regards changes in programmes, the mandate to change operational programmes is a separate mode of making these changes, there are call times, and therefore there is flexibility. This is an extremely necessary statutory provision because, in the absence of such a provision and the occurrence of these circumstances, many beneficiaries could have many problems. Managing authorities would also have difficulty implementing this. It concerns, among others, the following: loosening deadlines, adjusting certain entries to remote working conditions. It is also extremely important to be able to redirect European funds under operational programmes directly to intervention related to both the prevention and mitigation of the effects of these epidemics. It's an authorisation, especially. with regard to local authorities, which host regional operational programmes, it will allow these funds to be transferred, of course also by way of exception. Once again, I stress: only after the justification that pandemic time has a direct impact on this. We are also talking about the application of the Public Procurement Act, the waiver of sanctions for exclusion, when there was no settlement, etc. These are all the records that are extremely important, especially for the benefit of the beneficiaries. The Act also provides for a revision of the timetable for the implementation of projects so that this programme can be updated due to the duration of the epidemic. This also applies to the possibility of amending the co-financing agreement if the conditions for the execution of this agreement are not met due to Coronavirus. There is also a special procedure for the selection of proposals for managing authorities where these proposals will address the impact of the epidemic. All these provisions, which are flexible in approach to European programmes, are treated only as transitional provisions and are applied only on a reasoned request related to the outbreak of Coronavirus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They do not, of course, change the general principles and rigours of the Act on the use of EU funds. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club supports this bill and requests its adoption as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u10	Thank you, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Boris Budka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a special moment. Polish workers expect concrete solutions, employers close their bets only because instead of a real crisis shield we are dealing with great fiction. You didn't listen to us here in the Seym, you didn't listen to the Senate's good advice, and you rejected all the amendments. Today we are debating a law that in such a tiny part tries to patch what you have done, but does not solve the essence of the problems. Today, Polish entrepreneurs and Polish workers need to treat them fairly and partnerly. Today, the state cannot help its citizens without trusting them. We have proposed and proposed: replace all rigors with formal statements, trust Polish workers and employers, trust citizens and let them keep their jobs. Finally, we ask for Polish doctors, we ask for Polish nurses, we ask for health care. There is a bill in the Seym that guarantees all doctors, nurses, people who fight the coronavirus, weekly tests. Other hospitals are only excluded because you can't understand that health safety is the most important thing. Prime Minister! Once again, I appeal to you: please sit down and talk about how to help Polish workers, how to help Polish employers. People lose their jobs, they stay without benefits, they stay without help, and you guys keep playing election. We lost a few hours today. Just because you're trying to play what's going on with each other right now. Forget the election on May 10th. Let's focus on working together, let's do something good together for Poland and Poles, and then, when the outbreak is over, it's time to vote. The sooner you understand this, as Prime Minister Gowin did, the better for you, but also better for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u12	Thank you, sir, although that is not the point of this order. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr President forgot to mention one very important point: that the European Union, which you believe is not helping, made an unprecedented decision yesterday so that all unused structural measures could be allocated to the fight against the coronavirus by the Member States. From this Poland can have up to PLN 50 billion, i.e. more than it has so far scraped out of all sources the government - much more. But there is one condition: these measures must be used better than before. We have just heard, Prime Minister, that Polish health care is ready to fight the coronavirus, and today we know that one in six infected is a healthcare worker. Plus $4.5,000. Medical personnel can't treat us because they're in quarantine right now. You're about to do the same thing to the Polish economy. In the last three days of March 22 thousand operations were liquidated or suspended in Poland. companies. This is the response of the entrepreneurs to your hole shield. If someone else in Poland thinks that Polish entrepreneurs - whether small or medium or large - are lying on money, let them stop thinking that way immediately. They're not lying down, Prime Minister. Polish entrepreneurs who have had to stop their business day by day on the basis of your decision are looking very often at their empty bank accounts and wondering what they will pay their employees, contractors and the state, because the state does not even want to exempt them from contributions to the Social Security Office. If we don't fire them today, two or three months from now, the ZUS won't get them, because these entrepreneurs are just gonna fall. What are entrepreneurs wondering today? Whether to pay for the ZUS or to spend money on payouts for their employees. If they lose their liquidity today, you will be responsible because they will have no reason to resume their business in the moment when the situation is back to normal. These are the dilemmas of Polish entrepreneurs. These EU measures need to be used well. As Chairman of the Sub-Committee on verification of the use of EU funds I promise to all Poles and Poles that we will settle every dollar. And we're not gonna read that money accidentally went into some councilman's account of a PiS who suddenly started trading with masks or disinfectants or ventilators. We'll settle every penny, we'll settle every penny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u14	Thank you, Member. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I have a huge request to the President and the Prime Minister not to mislead the public. We all know that playing people's emotions during the epidemic can be very dangerous. Siering fake news in times of epidemic is harmful, but when the Prime Minister or the President of the State does it, it is just reprehensible. Mr. President! Prime Minister! Stop lying to your own citizens. You repeat over and over again that the Union is not helping Poland to fight the epidemic and crisis. That's a terrible lie. After all, we are currently working on a law on the distribution of the huge financial resources that the Union has given us to combat the epidemic and the crisis. Oh, come on. Lying has very short legs. Mr. President! Prime Minister! Don't measure the others with your measure. Just because you're all about your own party interests doesn't mean that others aren't guided by the values of community and solidarity. Just because you are insulting yourselves over and over and over again and with no one in the Union, does not mean that the Union will leave us alone in need, unless we reject this aid ourselves, as was the case with the EU's tender for protective equipment, among other things. for health care. Today, many hospitals and health care units lack enormous equipment and equipment: protective masks, suits, ventilators, etc. Why? Because we were the only country that did not participate in the joint tender for the whole of the European Union. Why? Because Prime Minister Morawiecki's government was late with the documents. Now the same Prime Minister Morawiecki claims that the European Union has not yet given a cent to the fight against the virus. I'll open your eyes. Poland is and will be the largest beneficiary of EU cohesion funds to combat the effects of the epidemic. We are to receive nearly EUR 7.5 billion, that is over PLN 32 billion. I am pleased that this huge aid will go to local governments, because it is they who are on the front line of the fight against the epidemic, that they are the most burdened with the cost of fighting the crisis, and the state is not helping them. You cannot protect your citizens from the crisis. You have prepared terrible solutions and rejected all the opposition amendments, including 200 Left amendments, but you are looking everywhere, in opposition and in the European Union. How about, Prime Minister, it's time to look in the mirror? That's where you'll see the guilty one. The fault is that half a million citizens have already lost their jobs, several tens of thousands of companies have suspended their activities or simply went bankrupt. According to estimates in April the work could lose nearly 3 million Poles and Poles, and each day of delay is 100,000. other persons made redundant. And what does the government do today? Digging and manipulating electoral law. Doctors, nurses, all medical personnel are fighting a heroic battle against a progressive epidemic right now. They're tired, they're short of basic resources. They treat using equipment purchased by the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help in masks made by citizens. Where's the government? The government in the Sejm rejects hospital support. Why? Because the project was submitted by the Left. Yesterday we were dealing with the worst day ever since the start of the pandemic. Nearly 400 people got sick. Tonight, to the hour. 10 - already 203 people, and I think there will be much more of these cases today. Today we do not share the left and the right, today we differ in what is most important to us. For you, it is the election and the president of the envelope, the envelope president, and for the Left count millions of Poles and Poles, the fate of those people who fight for survival every day. That is why we will support this law, because we are not driven by the party key, but by the common interest of citizens, local governments and the state. At the same time, we will make amendments and look at your hands so that support goes where it is most needed, where it will be used in the most transparent way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u16	Thank you very much, Member. There you go, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u17	Thank you very much, Marshal, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. The situation is getting serious. Yesterday we had the most disease since the first case of Coronavirus was diagnosed in Poland. 1/6 infected are health professionals. There are places where 100 and 200 people working in a hospital are quarantined. There's still no security equipment for workers who work and fight on the front line. This is case number one, this is a matter of urgency. There's no need to wait. Solutions must be put in place to help those who save health and life who work in shops work in places that provide services that are still available today. This is the first issue, and that's where we should be dealing with this morning. The second point is the economy. 50,000. companies suspended their business in March. More and more companies have no liquidity. You have not accepted our proposals for a liquidity fund at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which offer a chance for payment, purchase of goods and maintenance of production. This bill is filed. She should be considered today. Another issue is the exemption from PIT, CIT and ZUS for all, regardless of the size of the company. Without that, we can't keep jobs. There is no room for lack of solidarity today. If we continue to pursue only and only a particular interest in discussing how, where and what to do, and not when to do it, if we delay important decisions, then none of this will happen. A package of solutions must be introduced for farmers, for those who live at such a difficult time. Really, jobs in every area of our operation are at risk. Support for local governments is very important. They must feel our solidarity and support from the government level. The idea is to move as many funds as possible to local governments, because local governments are doing much better with these tasks, such as the local government of the Mazowieckie voivodship, which bought 7 thousand. tests, buys ventilators, helps and moves European funds. Let us use European funds, and let us not talk about matters that are completely not interested in Poles. The election date is not important for Poles today. The most important thing is their health and life, their place of work, whether the family will be guaranteed safety, and health safety, and social security. People worry about it, that's what they talk about at home. As long as we are only discussing political issues, not dealing with daily help, because it must be daily and not festive, we will not only not protect our country from biological disease, a disease that has biological consequences, but also from economic consequences. We need these solutions that are included in the pact, the real crisis pact, the real crisis shield that we presented. We're hoping to consider it today. This is a request for your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u18	Thank you. I invite Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u19	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to present amendments to the proposed law, ladies and gentlemen, which is going in the right direction, but we would also like to make it clear that it is not just an infectious disease, but also a prevention, prevention and eradication of this disease. Nor can we allow, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be no consultation with local authorities, with the Marshals of the provinces, that we should ignore it, and that we also make such a proposal, and that where, for reasons which the beneficiary has not committed, and which are caused by the disease, the Treasury should not be responsible for this and not help solve these problems. We also point to deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, we request an extension of the time limits. As far as payment applications are concerned, we suggest that this should not be 30 days, but 60 days. As far as completion is concerned, we propose 180 days. We also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this year's deadline, i.e. by the end of December 2020, it will be insufficient, so we are proposing a deadline of 31 December 2021. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u20	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And again I hear, once again, that people are mami, that the most important thing is money from the Union, not our own money, because they will give us something, the Union will give us. Ladies and gentlemen, all that the Union will give is half a day's work of our powerful Polish economy, which you are murdering. Your shield is murdering the economy. You don't have to help people, just don't bother them. 98% Poles will come into contact with the coronavirus, if not now, within 5 months. 80% He won't even notice or get sick very lightly. All you have to do is keep the kids out of school. It's not gonna happen to the kids. If you want to help people at risk after 60 years of age, help them isolate themselves from the others. Help the sick. The rest of you are to act normally, business as usual. People of age are practically no more at risk than the flu or anything else. The economy is supposed to work normally, and you're murdering it. This is a huge opportunity for the economy. The same idiots as you rule in other countries, maybe outside the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Sweden and the United States of Brazil. However, Mr President, please do not use such words, do not offend anyone. Please, sir. The ethics committee. There are people everywhere who murder their economies the same way. There is a great chance that the Polish industry will take this place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u22	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention again. Count your words. Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! There are great challenges ahead of Poland, and what you are doing is calling for vengeance to heaven. The economy is collapsing, we're going into crisis. Tens of percent of companies are currently losing liquidity, thousands of entrepreneurs have suspended their business, hundreds of thousands have already been fired or threatened to be fired, have reduced wages. What you have proposed, Prime Minister, is a bureaucratic shield. A concrete rescue wheel dumped by entrepreneurs. That's what banks are happy about. Good solutions were suggested, but you don't want to listen. Reduction of fixed costs, so ZUS, taxes, loans, leases. Easy-to-reach working capital. Simplifications, not new regulations. Unfortunately, these solutions were rejected, stuck somewhere at a low level of professionals who tried to advise the government. It didn't work out. You only do the election, you take care of yourself. Gameplay in the ruling camp. The president insists on the minister, the president insists on the Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister negotiates with the Prime Minister. You all negotiate with each other endlessly, how to make the election on May 10th, not what the Poles expect. Poles are scared, Poles are dying because they are sick, because health care is inefficient, and you take care of each other forever. You're blinded by your party business. You can't do this anymore. This is not what the Poles expected when they chose you. Today they're watching what you're doing and they're learning. You think you're going to gain politically by making choices during the epidemic. It's a cynical calculation, Mr. President. You know that. You think there's still a chance to win the election now, because when you wait with them, introducing normally, constitutionally, contrary to what you said on the radio this morning, the emergency state, then people will see the crisis and you could lose. But maybe just a little decency, maybe just a little caution, maybe just a little sense, listening to what the Poles really want, rather than what your Members want, your facilities in Treasury companies, your disoriented officials at the Prime Minister's office, your ministers and vice-ministers, who today are afraid for jobs that have a wage guarantee from you, not like ordinary Poles who work in normal companies, where there has been a breakdown in turnover as a result of your decisions, which you do not compensate for because you refuse to introduce an emergency that would force official compensation. People see what you're doing. People aren't stupid. You think you can manipulate both the Constitution and the electoral process forever, change everything like in kaleidoscope, every three days to present a new project, how it's supposed to work. Ladies and gentlemen! You've already lost it yourself. Today, three times the session of the Sejm Bureau was postponed. We'll see what else awaits us, what you want to surprise us with. What you're doing is acting against the nation. Poles see it, Poles learn from it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u24	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. The first Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u25	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! I listened to those statements that had nothing to do with this bill. I'll try to refer to this bill. I had the impression that the European Union had given us an additional €7.5 billion for the fight against the coronavirus. I have a question for the Prime Minister or the Minister, because this bill, if I read well and understand it, allows us to move the money we already have. Which you didn't use. It's as if someone had 100 zlotys in their account or pockets, and someone else kindly let him spend it not on bread, but on jam. And that's the whole essence and philosophy. Let's not confuse people with the fact that we have an additional 7.5 billion euros because we don't have that kind of extra money. Corrigendum. It is simply this law that allows us to use these funds (the bell) which have not been contracted or will not be used for other reasons, to fight the coronavirus. Please confirm this by the Prime Minister or the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u26	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For a few weeks now, I've been saying, I'm appealing, everyone's saying that there's been no tests, no safety measures, no protection for doctors, no health care professionals. In Poland, one in six is infected by a health worker, in Italy every ten. It means that this equipment isn't enough, and the assurances you keep showing us that everything is okay aren't true. I hope that with this money, these funds will finally be purchased the appropriate amounts of tests, masks, so that actually cyclically working people in health care can be controlled. This is so important. You can't say we do a lot of tests because we don't. The Ministry of Health gives the number of tests every day. I'd like to know that every person working in health care is periodically tested to make sure she has a sense of security. It is very important that such protection be not only in infectious hospitals, but also in all others, because the same is important for the county hospitals where patients go. There's got to be security there, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing. We've made adjustments. Accepting one of them will ensure that we can see how the money is spent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u28	Thank you, Member. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Self-governments are the leader in spending EU funds and we know how much this law is needed today, but I have a few questions. Does this law fully improve spending at the present time? Will we not hear in a moment that it needs to be modified? Why is its duration not adapted to the duration of other perivirus laws? Will it not be so that in some cases there will be discretion as to the costs presented by the beneficiaries? And my last question is to you, Prime Minister. What were the real reasons why Poland did not join the first collective EU tender for the purchase of koravirus protection measures? Have we even made the appropriate request? Did we miss the motion or did we feel that we didn't need these groceries? If so, who's to blame? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u30	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Many probably wonder what the fund bill is for us, since we haven't even gotten a zloty from the European Union. First of all, the Prime Minister lied to Poles again, but the second point is much more important here. This law is needed so that we can use all European funds to fight the dangerous virus. The European Union allows up to PLN 50 billion to be allocated for this purpose, i.e. all funds that have not yet been contracted because there are not enough good projects for them. However, this is not the last word on this issue. As you know, with the great support of Members of the Civic Platform and the European People's Party, the European Union will spend an additional €100 billion on maintaining jobs and businesses and €3 billion on emergency support. These funds will go, among others. for the purchase of security equipment and measures for the health sector. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's why we need this bill very much. The point is that entrepreneurs and local governments do not have to pay back the funds they have already raised so that we can make more effective use of the resources available... Thank you very much, sir. ...so that we can quickly defeat the dangerous virus and effectively fight...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u32	Thank you very much. There was no question here, it was a statement, and we are at the stage of asking questions. Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A number of further laws are ahead of us, which will patch a hole in the anti-crisis shield, on which you will look for further measures. However, what is most needed now for entrepreneurs is a map of the exit from the crisis. Entrepreneurs need to know what's gonna happen in a month or two to be able to act, make decisions. As the prominent economist Ludwig von Mises said, the basis for human action is planning. In order for this to be an economy that is not centrally controlled, which is free market, to be effective, we need to know where we stand. So that I propose that the next bill or information of the government that we are going to proceed to refer to a clear plan for the end of the lockdown economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u34	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised that when Poles get sick and die, the power camp continues to discuss elections. It's a testimony with a black belt from the government's morals and its facilities. It is all the more important that the government shield is cardboard, as confirmed by broken entrepreneurs and people losing their jobs, also in the south of Poland, which I do not think is visible in the PiS. Today I demand that the government deal with real help, not electoral puzzles, even if it frees companies from VAT. However, this bill, although going in the right direction, relieves the people of power from their responsibility for violating the discipline of public finances. How will the Ministry guarantee fairness, competitiveness and that EU funds are actually spent on saving Poles and not in the pockets of people associated with power? We see in the example of lessons on TV (The Bell) that today public funds are used by various shaman powers pretending to be teachers. Thank you, sir. Minister! Will this law guarantee that with EU funds it will not be like with TV lessons? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u36	Thank you, sir. I invite you to respond to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy, Ms Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for those words about our bill. I think it is this law that answers all questions, issues concerning the implementation of projects financed by European funds. From this point on, I would like to say once again that the European Union has not given any new money to fight the coronavirus. What we are talking about, which is EUR 7.5 billion, is still money that is meant for us, for our country, within the framework of cohesion policy. The European Commission has allowed these measures to be used more flexibly and that is what we are doing. Only yesterday after many notifications from both our country and other Member States, the Commission took this very seriously and allowed us to make the system of spending more flexible so that we could redirect it to the fight against the coronavirus. The European Commission's first legislative proposal was very preventive. It allowed for small shifts, it didn't allow much. Today we are talking about much more simplified rules for spending these funds. And from this point on, I would also like to say that our country would not lose any resources. Poland is... That's not true! Poland, ladies and gentlemen, is among several other countries among the leaders in the spending of European funds. Today we are talking about contracting 83.3% the resources that are meant for us. There are no conditions for use. If we'd contracted all the money today to fight the coronavirus, we wouldn't have any resources. Poland did not return any money in 2019 as part of the mid-term review, under the n+3 principle, as was the case with Slovakia, Italy, France or the United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's why today we can use the 17% to fight the virus. the remaining allocations we are talking about. However, let us also remember that, as part of the distribution of these funds, there are competitions which have been decided, there will be co-financing agreements to be signed in connection with selected applications for co-financing, which should also be signed at the moment. If we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the spending of funds by local governments, no one is taking money from local governments, these funds remain there as part of the implementation of regional operational programmes. Regional programmes manage 40% today allocation if we are talking about measures that are within the perspective of cohesion policy. As to whether the law narrows the scope Only to support or prevent... No, the provisions of the law are very widely understood, we are talking about both the consequences, prevention and the opposite of the fight against the coronavirus. The law was consulted with the marshals of voivodships, it was consulted and some of the proposals submitted by the marshals were introduced into the law. Of course, we give the opportunity to extend the deadlines both for the submission of a payment application and for the completion of projects. This bill allows it. With regard to the deadline set in the Act, which is 31 December 2020, it follows from the proposed EU crisis framework. If the Commission extends the time to implement and counter the crisis to a further perspective by 2021, this date will, of course, be changed by us. Yes, as part of the implementation of the bill under review today, you will be able to buy personal protective equipment, masks, ventilators, and that is exactly what these liberalised rules of assistance are needed for. The idea is that the Marshals of the voivodships can provide support for the purchase of these personal protection measures within their projects and extend the scope of the projects that may be carried out in connection with health protection. As regards issues relating to the accession to the procurement invitation to tender for a general Union invitation to tender, I would like to point out here that the first EU purchase of security measures was carried out on the basis of previous rules and Poland did not proceed to this invitation to tender because of the decisions that were taken during the time of the PO-PSL government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order to address the differences in this issue, we entered into a major EU tender in March this year, which is being implemented. So that Poland will carry out a large EU tender. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u38	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill... I'm sorry. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I declare the session adjourned until 3 p.m. 5:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 35 hrs. 18 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific solutions to support the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. The additional committee report shall be in print No 315-A. We proceed to the third reading. The formal proposal was made by Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 2, point (b) is replaced by the following: Point 3 (1) and paragraph 3. 3a resolution of the Polish Parliament of 30 July 1992. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland shall be formally requested to interrupt the meeting of the Sejm and to convene the Convention of Seniors and to add to the agenda a point including the examination of the draft resolution on the obligation of the Council of Ministers to declare the state of the natural disaster. We have also made such a request in writing to the Prime Minister today. I know that such an application was also submitted by the club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to stop this chuckle-dance, it's time to stop, say, talking when there's gonna be elections or how the elections are going to be held. We demand that we talk about Poles today, that they lose their jobs, that they be liquidated companies. It's time to get started, ladies and gentlemen, not for the election, but for the job. The state of the natural disaster will allow us and you to carry out these tasks. At the same time, we declare that we will account for each month of this state. We demand, Your Marshal, that this item be placed on the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u40	Thank you, sir. Excuse me, sir, but a meeting of the Bureau and the Senior Convention took place just moments ago. This resolution came in less than an hour ago. We have already voted on the request for a break, and the convening of the Convention is my decision. I will not call him in on this, because we had just talked about it at the Convention meeting, Mr President. And one more formal conclusion. Mr Grzegorz Braun. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u41	Dear Marshal! I would like to ask you to make a formal statement as to whether this small council, which you were nodding at when you went out to this place, calling on the members of the Bureau, was the Sejm Bureau or the Senior Convention. If it was the Senior Convention, then I would like to know why a representative of the Confederate circle was not summoned and why in such unofficial mode we find out when the Sejm will continue its work: whether tomorrow or Monday. And in general, this is the same conclusion as the request made a few nice hours ago to restore the seriousness of the activities of the High House, in which you, your marshal, set new standards of embarrassment and self-compromising, which I find regrettable. You're being embarrassed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u42	I do not believe in regret, sir. It wasn't a briefing. The Convention and the Bureau were held in my office. Convention? So where was the Confederate representative? Mr President, please don't argue with me. A representative of the Confederation was at a meeting of the Convention. Apologize for that now, sir. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes following the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. At its 9th meeting on 3 April this year, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the draft law contained in print No 315 was re-directed to the Committee on Public Finance in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. These amendments were tabled 13. Most of them concerned matters related either to the title of the law, to the amendment of the title of the law, or to the introduction of additional consultations with marshals, even greater than was the result of the Act so far, or to the loosening of the rules relating to settlement and the possibility of such a situation as is contained in this law, in the quarterly reports of the Minister for Development, without counting interest as well as the extension of the term of the Act for a year, i.e. until the end of the next year. During the discussions and votes of these 13 amendments... There were 12 votes because Amendments 1 and 2 will be put to the vote together, and so was the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. In all 12 votes, these amendments - 13 amendments, but in 12 votes - were negative. And that is the proposal of the Public Finance Commission that the High Sejm should reject all these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u44	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 315. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first and second amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 168 - for, 267 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 220 for, 228 against, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 224 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 175 - for, 282 - against, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 5 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 7 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 223 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The amendment was rejected. In the 7th amendment to the article. 5 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Madame, I ask you very much, what is this all about? What is this, my fellow Member, some kind of personal tour? Please behave as a Member of the Parliament should behave. We're reading this ridiculous bill, Marshal. Then read it quietly, okay? And if you don't want to be in plenary, you may not be in plenary next time. But we're not at school. Don't treat me like a student. Because I'm not your student. I am a Member of the Sejm and I have the same right here as any other Member. And don't treat me... Because I was also voted for by the voters, the sovereign you like to appeal to. We're in the middle of a vote. Let me remind you that we're in the middle of a vote. But that's the third time he's gonna make a mistake. That's why the important vote... I ask you to stop this discussion. Mr President, I ask you to stop them. It's your duty to obey the Marshal's orders. Sir, I'm asking you to stop discussing this. The president will be fine. 455 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 9. The nerves are letting go. It's a tough negotiation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 177 - for, 280 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 177 for... Oh, no, I'm sorry. It's an old board. I'm sorry. 456 Members voted. 216 - for, 239 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose a different wording of points 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 223 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 21 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 175 - for, 283 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 33a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 234 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 34. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 176 - for, 284 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. For the first time, we have 460 people. The Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, in this Chamber, there were questions about the EU tender, about the means that come to us, and personal protective equipment that could be in Poland, about the state of supply of personal protective equipment. I'd like to give you some information about these questions. On 28 February, an EU tender was launched for personal protective equipment, masks, gloves, suits, goggles, and a few more points. The tender was partially cancelled on 12 March. On 24 March a success was announced, while, ladies and gentlemen, even the contract for this equipment is still not signed, therefore the date of delivery of personal protective equipment from this tender is unfortunately unknown, and the epidemic we have here and now. We, of course, took part in another bid for ventilators. At the moment, these offers are evaluated. I think if we were waiting for this equipment, then when he comes, the situation would be much more dramatic than it is now. Of course, I know that in many places there is a lack of equipment, I know that equipment is extremely needed, which is why we are looking all over the world for this equipment, so we buy it from all over the world and bring it to Poland. As of today, we have transferred 7240 thousand to hospitals, medical agents, other people. Masks, 2699,000. gloves, 407,000. And sanitizing fluid, 575,000. HEPA masks and we bought and accepted 165 respirators, and more than 1000 respirators are contracted. This equipment has been distributed to 19 single-name hospitals, over 80 hospitals with infectious wards, to over 500 other hospitals, to 105 with oncology and haematology, where there are patients most in need, to 1585 medical emergency teams, to over 9,000. The practices of POZ doctors, where there are still more than half a million advices every day, mainly telemedical advice, thanks to the fact that we have better computerization of health care, up to 13 720 pharmacies, where still more than a million patients receive medications, thanks to the fact that they have the possibility of not coming to the doctor to receive prescription medications, to laboratories, to the police, to the Border Guard. Of course, this is still very little in relation to needs. That's what we know. But that's why we've contracted another 31 million masks, 28 million HEPA masks, 14 million gloves, 855,000. suits and 1250,000. Goggles. This is the equipment that will now be gradually delivered and immediately passed on. You also asked about the tests. Right now we have 150,000. tests that are already in laboratories - they are physically in Polish laboratories. There's about 6,000 of them. daily. The possibilities of these laboratories are about 8,000. daily as of today, these opportunities are gradually increasing. The Minister of Health really doesn't decide who has to have the test done, who has the test commissioned. We're still not making full use of the potential of the labs and the tests that are. Another 150,000. tests (The bell) is in Poland and 500 thousand. We have contracts. And the last piece of information I wanted to give you. At the moment, we have a 24.5% reduction in infectivity. In order for us to stop this epidemic, we have to have more than 50%, or even 60%. Therefore, we must do everything we can to continue to reduce the level of infection - to maximize the level of the disease and to limit the number of patients. If we hadn't done anything, if we hadn't done this draconian thing, we'd have over 8,5,000 today. patients diagnosed and infected. This shows the scale of the reduction that has been achieved, but we really need to do even more to achieve this reduction at more than 50%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u46	Thank you, Minister. And before the end, Mr Grzegorz Braun. One minute - question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I will repeat the question that Mr Jakub Kulesza, chairman of the Confederate circle, asked here a few hours ago. When will you free the economy? When are you gonna stop with this crazy idea of lockdown, shutdown, shutting down the Polish economy? And a question for the Minister of Health. In addition to promoting all of these, as you yourself said: draconian, and some will say: absurd, sharpenings, the type of ban on entering the forest, will you finally start promoting tests, serological tests, which allow to determine the possible emergence of antibodies, which would be a certificate authorising you to get out of quarantine, to take care of people from high risk groups? Why are you making psychosis without looking for a real solution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, many entrepreneurs would order such research for their employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u48	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been nine hours since the Sejm should be held, and we've adopted one short bill. Instead of dealing with the fact that at that time several tens of thousands of people received notice, instead of dealing with the fact that at that time several thousand Polish entrepreneurs applied for suspension or closure of business, instead of dealing with the fact that at that time several hundred people reported an urgent need for medical resources, you lost all these hours of fighting each other to discuss some absurd solutions to keep repeating an absurd election date. We're here to work. Once again, Prime Minister, I urge you to come to your senses. Finally take care of what we are committed to. Let's start working together on solutions that Poles are waiting for. It's about helping everyone affected by the crisis. And the election (the bell) could be next year. It's important that no one loses their job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that the Minister of Health spoke because these are the most important topics and really interesting topics of all our fellow countrymen. I have a few more questions for the Minister. Have all the doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab diaphragm, and all those who have any connection to the first line of combat, been placed under additional insurance? We proposed this during discussions at our meetings - not only those in hospitals with one name, but also all other health care units. Is there special monitoring of patients in geriatric wards in terms of COVID-19 diseases in care and care facilities, in social services homes? These are the most vulnerable patients. As we can see in other countries, there has been an intense spread especially through social services homes. The last question (the bell) concerns patients who had scheduled procedures. This isn't about patients with suspicion of coronavirus or COVID-19 disease, it's about everyone else. How are we prepared to help them now and after this phase of the struggle? I ask for these answers - so that the time we spend here is not wasted, but used effectively for our patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u52	Thank you, sir. And last question - Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Although the virus pushes our economy into more and more chaos and forces us to freeze investment, people are losing their jobs and companies are failing, the European Union's budget is now a guarantee for Poland of undistorted funding, which will also help us to survive this difficult time. That is why the Left will support this bill. Just please don't spoil it, ladies and gentlemen, because I hope - and that is my question - that these funds will be distributed proportionally among local governments - evenly, they will not only go to local governments that are governed by the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-03-sejm-09-2.u54	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 315 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 454 - for, no one was against, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a law on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes following the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 3 April this year. I am ordering a recess until Monday, i.e. 6 April 2020 at 3 p.m. 10. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 04]]
