ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u1	Dear Members, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 12, - Legally, at about an hour. 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u2	Thank you very much. The formal proposal was made by Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u3	God bless you! The High Izbo Act! Honourable Mr. Marshal! A formal request for an adjournment in order to convene the Seniors' Convention and to hold a discussion on a practical proposal to stop the regulation of access to this Chamber, access which is arbitraryly restricted, irregularly, inextricably, from our point of view illegally, because the regulation of access to this House is in a clear way contrary to the duties of Members of the Parliament of the Republic. Anyone who issues such regulations, and anyone who enforces them, therefore, accepts the duty and right of a Member to carry out his mandate. The Parliamentary Confederation's Circle is very consistently held in this House by the Sejm's Bureau. To this House, we were announced yesterday, only one member of our circle will have access, which it seems, ladies and gentlemen, is a really excessive, grotesque usurpation from the Sejm Bureau. Please stop with the raccoon, stop with the practice that parliamentarianism in Poland reduces to facade, decoration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Manage a break and get out of these evil, harmful, and illegal solutions as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u4	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mrs Dorota's question on Sunday. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here in this Chamber, 3 April 2019 during the debate on the vote of distrust towards Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski I promised that by the end of the world and one day longer I will defend the horse stud in Janów Podlaski from the losers who will not touch what they will destroy. So? And after 15 months I must defend Janów Podlaski again, because the financial collapse of the company is getting worse, and the hygiene conditions in the stud where the animals are staying are calling for vengeance to heaven. I saw it with my own eyes during an intervention visit on May 19th. Now Minister Ardanowski will tell me I don't know what I saw, and he'll say everything's okay. If so, Minister, why did you send the chief veterinarian there on May 12th? Well, in the last 30 years, there was no need for the welfare of the animals in Janów to be checked by the chief veterinarian. You're gonna leave right now and say you're gonna fix everything, or you're gonna send extra inspectors to check it out. I'd like you to answer all the questions I've sent you. In addition, I have a question: Did the former president receive a position in KOWR as a reward for this terrible situation? What were the remuneration costs with all the components, i.e. Prizes, briefings and service, all members of the boards appointed in Janów from 19 February 2016 to 1 April 2020? Minister! You want to teach your veterinarian how to determine your well-being. We may disagree, but my qualifications are certainly higher than anyone's (the bell) qualifications who came to this stud. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u6	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to thank you for this question, of course, with the thesis, because it will allow you to at least briefly explain the state of the stud and - you may not believe it - present a certain objective assessment of its condition. In Poland we love horses - this is our national pride - especially Arabian horses. Historically, thanks to Poland, Polish magnates were saved, therefore the concern for Arabian horse studs is absolutely justified. I'm not gonna answer you with my grades because, as you said, they're gonna be subjective because you know better. I'm going to read some documents that other people, unrelated to me, people, institutions have presented. The Chairman of the Employee Association of Agricultural Workers in Janów, as a lively unrelated to me, writes: In recent days, all major national and foreign media, not only the industry press, have heard that in the Janów Podlaski Stud there has been a situation of extreme animal negligence. According to the messengers of Dorothy Sunday and Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska horses, as well as cows, are extremely neglected. We, as a union organization, have to discredit this information. We assure you that the current health and animal condition is very good. That's not my phrase. Were you there? The General Board of the Trade Union of Agricultural Workers responds in this way: The demonstration of negative events at the horse stud in recent years is used to combat party groups. The horses always look worse in the spring. The fact is that some of the hay collected was bad quality... Jesus Christ. ...and the weak growth of grasses in pastures due to cold days and drought caused prolonged horses to stay in stables and the need to feed them more hay, which affected their condition. Have you seen that rotten silage? Also, problems due to the lack of its own horseshoe and the lack of possibility, due to Coronavirus, the employment of outside horseshoes resulted in the lack of ongoing hooves care in parts of horses. These facts were used by politicians to show the stud in a bad light. We call on the opposition and the media to come to mind and not to destroy people, in this case the hard-working horsemen in Janów Podlaski, and all ointments to politicians - I think this is for your messengers - we remind you that they live with hard work of agricultural workers. Don't let the ministers lie to you about anything. The Union of Agricultural Workers, an organisation unrelated to the Ministry of Agriculture. Buy a card at the harvest festival. Now, ladies and gentlemen... Member, we can shout out, but it's not with me. It's not me. Don't lie to me and don't insult me. Now the myth about the excellent running of the stud in the past years by Krzysztof Jurgiel's predecessor. It is a large farm, 1700 ha. It should have good results, although breeding horses is not a profitable activity in Poland, especially in the state edition, where it is necessary to preserve the genetic resource, rather than just look at the sale of horses. Thus, in 2011 - 60 thousand, in 2012 - 243 thousand, in 2013 - 313 thousand, in 2014 - 413 thousand. These were the years when they were entitled to increased subsidies taken by Minister Sawicki. Although these were EU rules and capping was applied throughout Europe, Poland could, it did not have to do so. So these results were at a time when there were much higher direct payments. Famous 2015, euphoria, excellent financial result. The financial result was minus 2765 thousand. and was rescued from selling the best Polish mare. But there was something to sell. One Polish mare. A sale that bears the mark of even breeding stupidity because you don't sell the best horses. Oh... You don't sell the best horses. You sell your daughters, not your mother. The sale of Pepita this year saved the financial result, because 2015 I will remind you, it was a difficult year due to drought, we mentioned it repeatedly, and the financial results dramatically deteriorated in the stud, also due to the taking of direct payments. So what great success can we talk about here, Mr. Trela? The financial result in 2019 - you already know, because you use it, some millions you invent - has been improved by 2,700 thousand compared to the previous year. zł. So what I'm saying here is, all these charges, I don't want to use bad words... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, another sentence. ...all these charges that are being filed are being sucked out of their fingers. These are false allegations. I will answer this very carefully in response to the interpellation which you have also submitted. At the beginning of June, I invite all journalists to a press conference where detailed documents will be presented. At the same time, I invite all journalists who are misled by ladies to visit Janów at the agreed date at the beginning of June. Two months the new president was cleaning up after you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u8	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wonder if you're trying to deceive us or if your officials are cheating on you. I have a letter from last year, May. KOWR wrote that when it comes to cattle breeding, in the rooms where animals reside, the walls are wet, soiled with feces. Animal feces are not disposed of frequently enough. Dirty feces are animals of all ages. A year ago, in May, the situation in Janów was already very difficult. From now on, we've got a worse situation. You can, of course, charm us here. The truth is, you have entrusted the duties of running this stud to President Czochanski and he has led this stud to an ever-increasing decline. As regards political issues, we will account for this gentleman, but as regards substantive issues, this (Bingle) inability should be held accountable by Mr Czochanski instead of giving him a reward in the form of a KOWR job.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u10	Thank you very much. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish saying: the grandfather, the woman his - is probably here. Anything but a peasant. So I will also answer with documents, not your opinion, just documents. The Supreme Audit Chamber under the rule of Mr Kwiatkowski, unless not an ally of Law and Justice, carried out an analysis in the company in 2019 and the audit recommendations stated: In the activity of the audited entity to the extent described above - i.e. concerning these animals - no irregularities were found. The Supreme Audit Chamber also controlled supervision by KOWR... 2014 ...in relation to the stud in Janów and stated: In the absence of irregularities found, conclusions and follow-up recommendations are rejected. This is the opinion of the Supreme Board of Control. The breeding supervision was also carried out and carried out by persons, as it seems, competent: Prof. Dr. Hab. Krystyna Chmiel, whom I recommended to hire a few years ago, one of the most famous horse breeders in Poland, was until March, and now is Mrs.Stoyanowska, which I believe you do not report any vote of distrust. There was also a charge of lack of significant demonstration successes. So I can present to the ladies - and I will do it at a press conference, where a lot of documents will be presented - several dozen promotional and exhibition events, where Janów's horses get the highest places, the highest prizes and congratulations. What's that? The stable is so dramatic that those who reward it do not know what they are doing? Finally, I'll tell you what the motives might be. In a letter signed by the President of the Polish Association of Arabian Horse Breeders, it is written: As breeders of the Polish Association of Arabian Horse Breeders, we would like to protest against the painless attempt to discredit Arabian horse breeding in Poland. Recently emerging information in Polish and foreign media presents a very critical picture of Arabian horse breeding in Poland, and thus have an impact on their value on world markets. We suspect that the intermediaries involved in the sale of our horses are interested in lowering their value and by engaging in this attack, they are able to gain significantly more profit from their commercial activities. Heiters, presenting in a very critical way the picture of Arabian horses breeding in Poland, have a negative impact on their image and thus on the value and prices of horses coming from the Polish Arabian horse breeding program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u12	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u13	Minister! You're famous for not being able to tell the truth. You lied, you lied, you lied. We have reached the report which Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska has shown. It was your men who went to the horse farm in Janów and found out what was going on in the cattle farm. I'll read to you: In a pot for domestic cows, water mixed with feces, in parentheses: manure, lack of stock of bulk feed, hay wax in the silos is organoleptically like manure. Is this, in your opinion, a well-run cattle farm? Is that okay with you? And you're telling me I don't see anything? Ladies and gentlemen, here's a picture-- a picture I took in Janów. Maybe I'll show you. Have you seen the calves? 15% calf falls. Calves have diarrhea, they cough and they're sick, they're neglected. And the fact that you're gonna show a well-prepared stud next month is only going to happen because of a new president who's been there for two months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's cleaning up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u14	Thank you very much. Minister, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Please excuse me from having to answer that question as well. I'm going to present very precise data, including the photos you took there. Thank you very much. And that's not true, too? I wonder if the president saw those pictures.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u16	Thank you very much. Now Mr Marek Polak will ask a question about the scale of domestic violence in Poland and the solutions introduced by the anti-violence law. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. I now ask the Member to ask a question. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Nearly a month ago, the Sejm adopted almost unanimously a law prepared by the Ministry of Justice to oblige the perpetrator of domestic violence to leave the apartment immediately, forcefully. That's an answer, among other things. the need to stop violence without delay by isolating the victim from the perpetrator. I think it's a very good bill, because in the event of a threat to the victim's health or life, it gives him the opportunity to give real help at the time of police intervention, while ensuring a decent life while awaiting the court's examination of this decision. But I would like to ask the Minister: What is the scale of people affected by violence in Poland and how many people, according to the Ministry's estimates, will be able to benefit from rapid and effective assistance under this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u18	Thank you very much. Please respond to Mr Marcin Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A law drafted by the Ministry of Justice on amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws introduces solutions which aim to introduce comprehensive solutions to the Polish legal order concerning the rapid isolation of the perpetrator of violence from the victim of violence in situations where there is a threat to the life or health of the householder. This is one of the new instruments in the Polish legal order, i.e. a new right for the Police, including the Military Police as appropriate, to issue a right to an immediate order to leave the apartment and a restraining order against a violent person who is close to the apartment and its immediate surroundings. This means that it will be the perpetrator of violence who will have to leave the apartment immediately, not the victim, as before and before, and there will be no more situations where the victim of violence will have to stay under the same roof with the perpetrator. As far as scale is concerned, the number of people who were affected by domestic violence, domestic violence in Poland, according to the statistics of the Police Headquarters in 2019 was 166 thousand. cases of violence. Compared to the previous year, 2018 is an increase of 6 thousand, compared to 2017. - a little over 300 cases. According to statistics, these were various forms of violence: mental violence - just over 80,000. cases, physical - almost 60 thousand, sexual - over 1200, other - 23 thousand. As far as statistics on Blue Cards are concerned, in 2019 we were faced with slightly more than 88 thousand. people suspected of being affected by violence in the family, of whom 65 thousand. They're women, 12,000. They're minors, a little over 10,000. - Men. With regard to certain estimates, because of course we do not have any hard data here, reports made via the emergency service, the blue line, it is determined that about 10% all reported cases of domestic violence required urgent intervention by the services, among others. because of the threat of life. It gives you a picture. This picture also includes the number of proceedings under Article. 207 Criminal Code, which we had 28,000 in 2018. With regard to hard data, at the earliest six months after the entry into force of the Act, we will have reliable data on the number of people affected by violence and using the solution in the form of an immediate police order. I can say that as part of the Ministry of Justice's activities, preliminary statistical forms are already being prepared, which will allow for detailed observation of this phenomenon. We are also in constant contact with the relevant units of the Police Headquarters and the Military Police Command, so that these statistics are correlated. It is also important to use existing tools to isolate the perpetrator from the victim, civil and criminal tools. As far as civilian tools are concerned, it is based on Article. 11a so-called the anti-violence law in 2018 the courts dealt with a total of 1500 cases for committing the perpetrator of violence to leave the apartment. I might add, on average, that one case was dealt with by the court for 134 days. This is also important information, because in this amendment, which has been signed by your President, we are also introducing a solution that will improve civil proceedings so that, in one instance, the procedure takes up to 30 days. As far as criminal tools are concerned, this includes a preventive measure in the form of an order to leave the premises. In 2018, there were slightly more than 2600 such provisions. As regards the spontaneous criminal measure in Article. 39 The Penal Code has covered about 500 cases in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows the scale of the problem that is important. And what's important: we're introducing a new tool for the police, which is free of ideology. This is a real action by which Poland joins countries where the protection of victims of violence is most effective.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak will also ask an additional question. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, Thank you very much for these detailed statistics and data. As I said in my previous statement, it's a very good bill. Although this is a necessary regulation, the question arises: Will not this far-reaching authority be abused? I am referring here to the result of possible false accusations of domestic violence in order to easily get rid of an unwanted householder. I would therefore like to ask: Will evicted persons have to pursue their rights in a customary way, before a court, which, as you know, may take up to a few months, or will they be able to benefit from an accelerated, specific procedure for dealing with these possible complaints? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. This is indeed an important issue that we have been very detailed on during the work on this bill. As regards the question of the Member, I will answer directly: there is a form of complaint against a police order, or the Military Gendarmery, and the court has a duty to deal with this complaint within 3 days. So I repeat: this is a very short time limit, the court will be required to consider within 3 days a complaint which may be lodged by the person in respect of whom a police order has been issued. I'll also say that the police warrant is obviously not the same as the eviction. Here we are talking about an order to leave the apartment, which, on the basis of a police order or military police warranty, will apply only for 14 days, and the extension can only be carried out on a judicial basis, just in the context of a separate civil procedure, which also in this law has been specifically regulated with all guarantees. Of course, at the time of intervention, the police will make very detailed arrangements with regard to the actual findings. We have also provided in the law very detailed, based on previous experience, the actions used by the police in detentions, a form to assess whether there was a reason for the threat of life or health of the household. Separate forms are provided for adults and minors. As regards the complaint procedure, if the court finds that an immediate police order is unlawful or unfounded, it will be necessary to inform the direct official of that officer who has applied the measure. There is also a real safeguard in the form of possible disciplinary action. I would also like to mention that the police have a lot of experience when it comes to intervention in violent situations. People who use violence, those relationships where violence takes place, are very often well known to the police. It's not new to the police. The police are the subject, as far as intervention is concerned, which is as competent as possible. Together, we will strengthen these competences by preparing and conducting with the forces of the Ministry of Justice training for the Police, for the Military Gendarmery, which will be dedicated specifically to the implementation and enhancement of police competence in the application of an immediate police order.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u23	Thank you very much. The next question will be about threats to freedom of creation, the return of censorship and manual control of communications in public media, among others. in the context of events in Programme 3 of Polish Radio and the Minister's silence in the situation of repression against people of culture. This question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Mr Paweł Lewandowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, will answer these questions. The question will be asked by the marshal, I apologise very much, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska. Your marshal's gonna do the same. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! However, I will ask Minister Gliński, if you don't mind. Minister Lewandowski! With all due respect, sir, the question was for Minister Gliński. So let me start with the question: Where are you, Minister? The last time I saw you in this room was when you defended your colleague, Minister Szumowski. Or didn't you have time to come here today to answer our questions because you were looking for proof of the innocence of your colleague Minister Szumowski? When we want to talk about culture, you're not here. When we want to talk about the media, you're not here. You, I think, is silent at all when we want to talk to you about culture. You were silent when scandalous things happened in Program 3 of Polish Radio. You were silent when the police attacked those who were outraged by what was in there. You were silent when the police and the health services were punishing 10,000. Evil to young artists. I don't know if you know who Kantor was. Or because they made a replica of Kantor's performance here, they were going to get $10,000 each. Evil punishment? Silence is eloquent because you hate culture and hate people of culture. All I'm saying is that you're responsible for what's going on, you're not gonna get away with it. As far as the media are concerned, sir, all these laws were born under your hand, those media monster laws. It was from your hand that your former deputy, Krzysztof Czabański, came out, who today, as head of the National Media Council, is carrying out these personnel casts. You will be responsible for Jack Kurski and Agnieszka Kaminska. You will be responsible for them, you will not escape that responsibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are the general assembly of these media companies, and you are acting to the detriment of these companies. I ask that you come here next time and face the messengers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u25	Thank you very much for asking the question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr. Paweł Lewandowski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u26	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members of the Commission, questions are being asked! A few preliminary remarks. The first preliminary remark is that, since the question that Prime Minister Gliński is the general meeting of this company has been raised, that I am also the general meeting of this company, I also have the authority to hold this general meeting. I therefore inform you about the regulations that apply to the general meeting. The Commercial Companies Code prohibits the issuing of any binding instructions to the Supervisory Board or to the Management Board. The Management Board is autonomous and it shapes the company's operating policy in all areas, the company's operating programme, how the company operates. In addition, the Radio and Television Act clearly states that the sender himself shapes his program and must not interfere in any way with its activities, because it could cause some accusations of political control or censorship. Therefore, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage rarely speaks positively or negatively about the media, so that no one can think that he somehow wants to influence these media. However, about the situation of the Three Prime Minister Gliński a few hours after the disclosure of this information spoke in the media. He said: It happens that some artists sing foolishness, even shocking, but it's more shocking to take off the song for imprudentness. I think it's some kind of provocation. Fortunately, we live in a free country and the Minister of Culture does not have to agree with all decisions of the public authorities of the radio. And at this point I would like to draw your attention to one important detail that Prime Minister Gliński has responded very strongly to this case that has taken place. You have heard in the media that the new director of the Triple, who is, as I understand it, respected by the environment of the Triple, also received the support of Prime Minister Gliński, Prime Minister Emilewicz, as well as the head of the National Cultural Centre of Mr Rafał Wiśniewski. They contributed greatly to fixing this situation with the Trinity, which was undesirable. One more thing I would like to point out is that you didn't react so harshly when the cemetery was dating the head of one of the editors to throw out journalists who wrote not in the taste of power. You didn't protest when you entered the editorial office, when the ABW tried to confiscate a laptop in which there were some journalistic materials, thus breaking the journalistic mystery. You don't know we didn't protest. I wanted to tell you that when we introduce laws, we protect journalists. We've been depenalized, for example. issues concerning authorisation, at this point any journalist can literally quote any statement and does not need an authorisation for this. We are working for freedom of speech and for artistic freedom, which is illustrated by a number of solutions that we have introduced, among others. in an anti-crisis shield to allow artists to experience this difficult time. You can see all the details of this shield on the website of the Ministry of Culture. If you have any further questions on this matter, of course I do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u27	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u28	True, I would also like Deputy Prime Minister Gliński to answer this question, because the Minister of Culture should not only stand up for freedom of culture, but also take care of the condition of Polish culture, Polish artists and cultural creators. We are freezing the economy, which I am very happy about, and I am very happy about it, but why there is no dialogue, why there is no talking to the environment. We hear that movies are supposed to be open, I'm all for it, but these environments are worried about how these movies are supposed to be defrosted. No one has set rules with them on how this is going to work. After all, this is very important because it is the cinemaists who will then be responsible for the safety of Poles. I'm glad we're freezing, but let's prep the regulation. It's gonna happen in a few days, and they still don't know what it's gonna look like. I don't know if such protests are made by theatre directors. I know about the owners and the cinematographers. Second thing. The Minister was talking about the shield here, about the fact that you're helping the creators. Yeah, there was a support program for artists who lost opportunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] functioning. He's supposed to be six months, he's three months old. Maybe you have to tell people honestly: loved ones, no money, we can only help you for 3 months - but you have to go out and say it because understatements are the most harmful. So let's take care of culture, but let's tell people the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u29	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is not true that we do not enter into a culture of our solutions in consultation with people, especially regarding the freezing of the economy. There's an anti-crisis team working. culture that meets on average every week. In principle, representatives of every industry participate in it. At the same time, at the Polish Film Institute we have the second industry team, ds. cinematography. This one's working. Therefore, on the basis of this team's work, we have also prepared a manual, which has been reviewed or is being evaluated by the GIS, the Chief Sanitary Inspector. This instruction will of course be introduced and announced as soon as possible. This is a manual that's been... Same with theaters. All frostbite instructions have been prepared in dialogue with representatives of cultural institutions. However, as I say, there are a number of solutions. There are so many that I could basically read a list of solutions that we introduced during the shield. I think that artists are aware of what these solutions are because we talk about this every week. I, too, am a member of this crisis team, and I have not seen any significant protests or additional demands from the cultural sector that we would not be able to respond quickly to. Recently, we have responded so quickly to the postulates, e.g. cinematography, introducing 1,5% VOD fees, as we respond to the demands of cultural institutions that operate in the form of associations or foundations, giving them powers such as normal employers to use the FGŚP, or creating similar solutions for other types of organisations, including. local authorities to partially participate in the salaries of the employees of these institutions, including the FGŚP. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u31	Thank you very much. Don't leave yet, Minister, because Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska has tabled a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am very glad that you are talking about this shield, because we have already submitted two interpelations to the Minister to tell us exactly what is so brilliant about this shield and how many institutions have benefited from it, how many creators. I look forward to responding to two more interviews. So much for the shield. On the other hand, as far as censorship is concerned, Minister, I said very clearly: media laws lead to such a situation that the National Media Council, which consists of three of your party friends and colleagues, makes such decisions, not other HR decisions. I repeat once again: censoring by the management of the Polish Radio is a rule, please ask journalists who are thrown out on the street, ask the Programme Council. For this you are famous President Agnieszka Kamińska, also as Chief of the One. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She kicked out journalists and censored them, and now she let them do the same thing in Trinity. So don't tell me that the Minister is silent so he doesn't censor. The Minister is silent because he allows censorship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u33	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to avoid this so as not to prolong, not to take the time of other Members to ask questions, but since the President asked, that is good. The total amount of PLN 80 million in the programme "Culture in the network," which consists of two parts: scholarships and grants... And we know that. Four billion. 2223 artists received scholarships for a total amount of PLN 20 million. As part of the grant, 1182 beneficiaries received a total of PLN 60 million. Four billion. State of 27 May 2020 More than 3,000 were awarded. social assistance in the total amount of PLN 5.5 million. At least PLN 6.5 million in the second stage of the competition for creative scholarships. Applications shall be dealt with. We've got $1,000 so far. conclusions. 500 million PLN for credit guarantees for the creative sector in BGK, a continuous programme. PLN 10 million for 227 beneficiaries across the country in the National Culture Centre programme The results were announced on 8 May. 468 grants for a total amount of 1200 000. zł, scholarships for filmmakers from the Polish Film Institute. The money's being paid right now. PLN 50 million is a pre-planned budget to launch a programme to compensate for the loss of culture after the outbreak. In addition, we have applied for a zero VAT rate for printed books, we continue to work on the Act on Professional Powers, we have enabled the heads of cultural institutions to pay additional remuneration for substitute artists, we are preparing an amendment to the budget to compensate cultural institutions run and co-financed by MKiDN for the losses associated with restrictions on their activities, we have changed the definition of a film work, so that we can receive grants from PISF also from audiovisual productions that will not have premier cinemas, we have suspended the reporting of data by cinemas, we have made the deadlines for submitting applications for financial support more flexible. But it's not over yet. But why for three months, not six months, what was it supposed to be like? And where are the 4 billion? Even around 6, 8, or 9 billion will be the final amount. We'll count it at the end of the epidemic. I can assure you of that. 8 billion per culture in a year? Please bear in mind that cultural institutions also operate in the form of normal companies, in various other forms and use generally accepted methods, including aid schemes for employers and employees. Therefore, they can also use the shield on general terms. We figured about 1.7%. all traders these are entrepreneurs in the cultural sector. And about that amount or a little bit higher, in addition to the amounts that we mentioned here, they will receive. That's what's going to be within the limit of PLN 6.8 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u35	Thank you very much. Members Jarosław Rzepa, Jan Łopata and Dariusz Klimczak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will address questions to the Minister of Health on the deteriorating financial situation of Polish hospitals, threatening the loss of liquidity. Mr Jarosław Rzep will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u36	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We have not only frozen the economy, but we have also greatly reduced what is happening in Polish hospitals. This was, of course, the result of all of our recommendations, but it caused, ladies and gentlemen, that in many hospitals every day the number of surgeries, treatments and advice was reduced in a very drastic way. That's what happened, ladies and gentlemen. In April, although the general contract regulation was revised, indicating that hospitals can get 1/12 lump sum - because, as you know, hospitals are mostly using this form of funding - as a form of advance, but all of you, ladies and gentlemen, are aware that today we have a huge threat that these advances may have to be returned. Here, Minister, I would like to hear a clear answer from you as to how a lump sum will be charged to hospitals, which are single-name hospitals today, and whether other health services, including in particular county hospitals, which have not made a lump sum because of restrictions, can count on the payment of amounts previously charged. How will the Ministry address the issue of lump sums in subsequent periods? Is the Ministry considering extending the deadlines for the clearance of lump sums? Does the Ministry finally see that hospitals may have problems performing the required procedures? Ladies and gentlemen! Polish hospitals were in debt before the beginning of the pandemic (the bell) for about PLN 14 billion. Today, Polish hospitals should be helped. I'd like to hear how the Ministry of Health is going to look into this, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u37	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Janusz Cieszyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because the condition of Polish hospitals is a very important issue and the fact that, as we all know, they are now operating in completely exceptional circumstances cannot change the fact that we need to take care of these individuals and we need to ensure that they maintain their potential and are ready to return to normal functioning as soon as possible. I'm saying normal, but it's definitely going to be different, it's going to be different from what we know from previous years, for a few more months, maybe even longer. From the very beginning, however, the Ministry of Health has been working to provide an independent source of funding for additional benefits in the fight against COVID. If we look at the finances of single-name hospitals, we can see clearly that for March and April these hospitals received additionally, depending on the entity, several dozens, up to 80% more than they received in the standard months, because they received at the same time lump sums and funds for maintenance in the fight against COVID, the funds, I will remind you, paid regardless of the standard rule, which provides that we pay for the provided benefits and not for the notified readiness. Here we offered 100 PLN per day for each bed ready and an additional 200 PLN for each respirator bed - for each day of maintaining such readiness. At the same time, there is a lump sum issue. Here, as the Member noted in the question, this lump sum is maintained in the form of an advance. And as part of the legislative initiatives of the Ministry of Health - this has already been reported on the list of legislative work of the Council of Ministers - we are looking for an extension of the settlement period, which will allow us to settle this lump sum for a larger number of months, which in turn allows hospitals, we can say, in a balanced, balanced way, to carry out this lump sum. I'm sure we're going to want to extend this by six months, by the middle of next year, when the first cycle of the hospital network ends. On the other hand, we are flexible in this matter and we know that there may be a situation that will require further extension. Then, of course, we'll do it. It is absolutely understandable that there was now no possibility of full lump sums. Appropriate solutions will be prepared in accordance with our declarations. Tomorrow is the meeting of the government's work programming team and I hope that this team will adopt an appropriate legislative solution. I would also like to remind you that despite the extremely difficult financial situation that affects all public institutions, according to the agreement that we have concluded with the hospital union, we pay 5% increase in the valuation of each point. This happened, you can say, in the midst of an epidemic, despite the fact that we know that the proceeds to the National Health Fund in March fell by PLN 700 million compared to the forecast year-to-year, and in April they remained at a similar level, but it was related, among others. with the payment of the 13th pension. So that, of course, within the framework of the shield, we have guaranteed ourselves that the funds will be complemented by a grant from the state budget, while we must remember that, for sure, due to the global economic downturn, this revenue from the contribution will be less and it will be our role to prepare the system to provide additional external sources of funding, as was the case with COVID funds. Let me remind you that these benefits and these instructions were financed exclusively from the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u40	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for your answer. I would like to ask you precisely about the National Health Fund, after all we know very well that the impact of COVID-19 and this epidemic on the economy is already clear, the decline in production in April is twenty-six percent, there will certainly be an increase in unemployment, there is also a reduction in wages, and this is also linked to the financial plans of the National Health Fund. We ask directly and ask for less general, as you just said, the government's predictions of a possible addition to the National Health Fund's financial plan, because that is exactly what we imagined, and just as hospital directors are asking us to do, whether these lump sums will be reduced and whether they will not be charged differently. And I will also ask about a possible regulation or a proposal for a regulation to extend the period of lump sums, because there are areas such as surgery or orthopedics (the bell), where it will be very difficult to make up for even six months of the extended period of settlement. In these cases, do you provide in the regulation any additional elements for hospitals to be able to carry out their plans on a lump sum basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u41	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u42	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the plans to extend this period are concerned, as I said, we want to extend it by six months, but if there is a situation that will require us to extend further, then of course this possibility exists and we are here declaring full flexibility. It is also worth remembering that when in Poland the provision of health services was limited due to the epidemic, some entities significantly decreased their costs. Especially in treatment specialties - I assume that you will agree with me here - but often contracts provide that the level of remuneration depends to some extent on the number of treatments carried out, which means that also during the epidemic these costs have decreased. We did this study on a group of single-name hospitals, and we noticed that despite the fact that the scale of the standard activity was significantly limited there, despite the fact that there were single-name hospitals, which fortunately did not have to work their full potential, these costs did not increase significantly, but increased revenues, which paradoxically led to a situation in which these 2 months, when the solutions prepared by the National Health Fund, March and April, were very, very favourable months in terms of the finances of these hospitals. So that, of course, the absolute agreement with the Member that it must be in such a way that the system we adopt will be flexible. That's how it has to be. That's how it has to be. On the other hand, as regards the details, I am convinced that the proposal we are going to make will be acceptable, especially, which is extremely important, that we have a situation where these measures are already being passed on with much less delay than they have been so far. There were 14-day payment deadlines, they were shortened to 5 days. This happened, for example, with regard to medicinal products, e.g. for pharmacies for which we are trying to transfer these funds, in fact, the day after the refund statement has been drawn up. This makes it possible for us, at this difficult time, to ensure that, in addition to the transfer of funds, we also maintain liquidity as much as possible. On the other hand, as regards the question concerning the entire budget of the National Health Fund, I would like to remind you that the so-called. Act 6% which must be used for each revision of the budget. And I'm sure it will be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u43	Thank you very much. The next question is also addressed to the Minister of Health, and will concern the allocation of additional funding to medical staff who undertake work during the difficult time of the COVID-19 epidemic. Ms Urszula Ruseck will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The world has been struggling with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic for several months. Poland against the background of most European countries, and it is also those much, much richer than our country, that is very good. We're pretty good with this epidemic. This can be demonstrated by the number of deaths per million inhabitants, as well as by the fact that we have free seats, free beds, free ventilators. Only 10% respirators intended for patients with COVID-19 are used. So these are very optimistic data. On the other hand, with particular respect, we observe the work of medical personnel who risk their health and save the lives of those who have fallen ill. These are doctors, nurses, paramedics, all medical personnel, especially those on the front line. My questions are related to the work of the medical services. How does the Ministry of Health support health professionals, especially those on the front line? Does the government intend to allocate additional funding to medical personnel taking up work during a difficult time to fight the epidemic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u45	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u46	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. In fact, what you said is 100%. It's true. We wouldn't have been so effective in fighting the spread of Coronavirus if it hadn't been for sacrificing medical services, if it hadn't been for the fact that we actually have so committed, so eagerly dedicated health care workers on the front line. I'm talking about all the professional groups that work in this system. Therefore, we appreciate this commitment and we are thinking, we can say, the nature of the work in the health system, which today is connected in many cases with the fact that workers work at the same time in more than one place. Within one of the shields, a provision has been introduced which gives the health minister a delegation to issue a regulation whereby workers performing medical professions may have limited opportunities to perform their work elsewhere if they are caring for patients with COVID. In view of the above, the Minister of Health has also been ordered to finance special allowances for all these persons to the President of the National Health Fund. These allowances will amount to at least 50% monthly salaries in the previous month and not more than 10 000. PLN, but if the employee lost the opportunity to earn another place, this amount could also be increased to a limit of 10 thousand. zł, by 80% earnings lost in another place of work. It is also worth pointing out that medical workers who have been quarantined in connection with work with patients with COVID-19 receive 100% benefit their salary for this period of incapacity for work, i.e. the absence of work opportunities due to quarantine. This also distinguishes them from other sectors. From the very beginning of the epidemic we have allocated to this from the state budget, i.e. not from the funds that we pay in the health contribution for the financing of benefits, only from the additional funds allocated by the government for the fight against the koravirus, over PLN 1 billion. This appropriation is intended not only to cover additional appropriations for the provision, preparedness, remuneration allowances, but also to ensure the safety of medical personnel, for the purchase of additional equipment and other expenditure which allowed them to be provided under more comfortable conditions and at a higher level. It is worth pointing out that one of the fundamentals of performing medical professions is to be able to perform them in a manner consistent with the most current medical knowledge, i.e. access to state-of-the-art therapies, modern equipment and what is needed at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u47	Thank you very much. The second additional question will be asked by Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would be very interested to know how many hospitals have submitted a list of employees covered by these regulations, which you spoke about just a moment ago. Does the Ministry have the possibility to verify this data? How does he do that? The situation related to the pandemic is very different in different voivodships. In a special way, I am interested in my voivodship, the Śląskie voivodship. What could possibly be the amount and, above all, the number of medical professionals who will be able to benefit from it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u49	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u50	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! As far as accurate data are concerned by regions, we do not yet have this data at our disposal, because here we are based on the conclusions of the medicinal products. These proposals shall be dealt with as soon as possible. I know that the first applications have already been examined, whereas they usually concern smaller entities and, consequently, have also been provided with adequate financial resources to these entities. On the other hand, the exact values and breakdown into different voivodships will be made public probably at the beginning of June. As for what scale we're talking about, it seems to be between 10 and 20,000. medical personnel. I'm talking about all of Poland. As far as regional breakdown is concerned, we will also present a brief report on this subject so that everyone can get acquainted with this information. In order for it to be complete, we need data from all actors. They usually swim in the next month until the middle of the next month. It still takes time to process this data, but of course all this information will be made public. There's a full financial security for these allowances. Based on the residual data that we have so far, but which allow for some preliminary respect, we learn that the height of these additives was about 6500 PLN in the case of doctors, about 3000 PLN. zł in the case of nurses. So that, of course, the exact values will be known when we have a set of data, but I think that this respect is ultimately similar, more or less giving away reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u51	Thank you very much. Members are ready to ask the question, but there must still be a person who would answer these questions. Deputy Minister, he's here. Good. In that case, the question will be to Minister Maciej Małecki, Secretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets, on the mismanagement and loss of PLN 1 billion of State Treasury companies created during the construction of the missed investment in Ostrołęka Power Plant. Mr Czesław Mroczek will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After several years of action by the government of PiS there was a disaster in the energy market in Poland. Electricity prices have risen dramatically. Some customers pay up to 70% More. The government, frightened by the effects of this situation, decided to pay compensation to households. In 2019 9 billion PLN was allocated for this purpose. This year there is no more money and compensation will not cover all households. Why is this happening? Because energy for the government camp has become a tool for achieving political goals. The PiS government bets on coal, and it's also on Russian coal. In 2015, President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Beata Szydło, seeking support in the presidential and parliamentary elections, made declarations concerning the construction of a new coal block in the Ostrołęka Power Plant, although it was already known that this investment was not profitable and that there was no willingness to finance this task. Energy companies Enea and Energa were forced to do this. The disaster came sooner than it could have been predicted. At the beginning of this year, both companies withdrew from financing this investment with a loss of PLN 1 billion. But this is not the whole loss of this investment, because there were also budget money involved there. It is estimated that this loss for today may already amount to PLN 1.5 billion, but this is not the end of claims, because there are still claims of the main contractor, etc., etc. What is a misfortune for our country has become a paradise for PiS activists who have settled in supervisory boards and management boards of energy companies associated with Ostrołęka, preying on public property. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this policy, several billion zlotys (The Bell) have been lost, which could have been allocated to energy projects to reduce air pollution and reduce costs. I ask: Who in particular is responsible for this situation, so great losses in the Ostrołęka Power Plant, and what next with this investment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u53	Thank you very much. We ask for the reply of Minister Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The new power plant in Ostrołęka will be implemented. This investment is necessary to ensure the stability of the energy system in north-eastern Poland. The power plant in Ostrołęka is needed due to the constant development of the region and the annual increase in energy demand in Poland, also in north-eastern Poland. The power plant in Ostrołęka could have been built a long time ago if not for the government to abandon the Platform coalition with PSL. It is primarily about abandoning gas supply to Poland in the process of diversification. It was one of the key factors that affected the decision to build a carbon block earlier. Let me remind you that you have also decided to build the Ostrołęk C carbon block, but you have stopped the construction by explaining that it will not pay off. Will it pay off? And wasn't your deal with Russia on the construction of a nuclear power plant near Kaliningrad really a reason to block the construction in Ostrołęka? But you're the ones who bring in coal from Russia. After all, you talked to Putin's people at the gas contract about the power plant in Kaliningrad. All you have to do is review the report of the Supreme Board of Control on your gas contract negotiations with Putin's people. Ha, ha, ha! And where did the problems you are talking about today come from when you care so much about electricity prices in Poland? Isn't it from the decision of the government of Donald Tusk in 2008? Was it not from the 2014 decision of Ewa Kopacz and Rafał Trzaskowski who agreed to adverse changes in the Union's climate policy for Poland? Wasn't it Ewa Kopacz and Rafał Trzaskowski who gave the European Commission a decisive influence on Polish energy? Rafał Trzaskowski even assured that electricity prices would not go up. Meanwhile, carbon prices have jumped five times in the last two years and you know it. And this is the aftermath of those decisions by Ewa Kopacz, Rafał Trzaskowski and previously by Donald Tusk. And I think it's obvious that without penalising the energy produced from coal through the cost of CO2 emissions The EU Green Deal of December Ub. year, which we did not sign, as well as a radical change in the attitude of financial institutions towards investments using coal technologies and the prospect of further tightening climate policy, which is the result of decisions made in 2014 in Poland, make it necessary to re-evaluate the project for the construction of power plants in Ostrołęka. This demonstrates the sense of responsibility and responsibility for key investments in Poland, and this sense of responsibility and responsibility is held by the Government of Law and Justice. We know that these investments must also serve energy transformation. Orlen, who bought 80% the shares of the Energa Group, informed precisely that the conversion of this power plant into gas is planned. It should be stressed that technology change is also possible thanks to the consistent policy of the Law and Justice Government in diversifying gas supplies to Poland. It's an extension of the gas terminal in Świnoujście im. President Lech Kaczyński and the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline will allow to invest safely in new gas installations. Building a block in Ostrołęka is also important for the reliability and stability of the interconnection between Poland and Lithuania. We help Lithuania, we help the Baltic countries to become independent of the Russian electricity system. This is part of the consistent policy of energy solidarity in Europe by the Law and Justice Government, and this should be an example for many EU countries. And in view of the trends prevailing in the European Commission, long-term gas technology is cost-effective, economically optimal and therefore Ostrołęka fits into a wider trend of transformation of the Polish electricity sector to use low- and zero-carbon energy sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u55	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u56	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You have proved, Minister, that you are laughing at what you are saying, that you confirm the thesis which my colleague has just put in place, that the money, this 1 billion or 1.5 billion PLN, has obviously been wasted in the implementation of this investment. In 2018, you started an investment. It was supposed to cost $5 billion after the tender. In 2019 Minister Emilewicz said that it is not enough that we need more than 60% raise the cost of this investment to almost PLN 9 billion. I ask you, have the analyses been carried out? Has anyone approached the case honestly, the construction? Did he do his utmost to implement this investment, when making this decision in 2018 that you will build this power plant? Who is personally responsible for this chaos, the wasted billions of zlotys that come out today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u57	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of accusations were made by Members of the opposition, but there was as usual: populism and lack of concreteness. What about PLN 1 billion? Eight billion. Maybe I'll remind you again, because I can see that not all of them have arrived: the plant in Ostrołęka will rise. Carbon? It will be built on gas technology. Why? Because the macroeconomic environment has changed dramatically... In a year and a half? ...and the European Commission, also thanks to your passiveness, your agreement, specifically Ewa Kopacz and Rafał Trzaskowski in 2014, could radically approach climate policy. This isn't politics. This climate policy does not always respond to the realities of economic life, which is what you were nodding your heads at when I gave examples of Asian countries where there are no such radical solutions. The Government of Law and Justice will not race in climate policy at the expense of Poles. We take up the challenge, we have taken up the challenge of energy transformation, but we do it in a way that is safe for the Polish economy, in a way that is safe for the competitiveness of Polish companies and in a way that is safe for the budgets of Polish families. Returning to the macroeconomic environment, this investment is profitable. It allows to stabilise renewable energy sources, but above all it guarantees that investment is financed. The construction cycle is also shorter because the gas block, 500, can be built within 3 years. The project is favorable... Five years now? I'm talking about one block, which doesn't mean it will be. Let's wait for Orlen's analysis and demand. I give, for example, a block that can be built. The project is also beneficial for the region of Ostrołęka. It will accelerate development, give an impetus to economic recovery in north-eastern Poland. Especially today, when we come out of a pandemic and freeze the economy, it is very important. During the defreeze of the economy and the return to the rapid path of economic development, which Poland governed by the Law and Justice envied many countries of Europe, the role of companies of the State Treasury will be large. I do not expect Members of the current opposition to share our position because you had a completely different look at it. You wanted companies to privatize, sell, we want companies to develop and be locomotives of the Polish economy. Thank you very much. Propaganda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u59	The corrigendum will continue... Mr. Marshal, I didn't mention anyone by name. It's out-of-the-box.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u60	Thank you, Marshal. The Minister pretends not to know who asked the question, but this is a good time to correct what the Minister was talking about. You weren't referring to our question. We asked why you decided to build a carbon block, and now you've changed your mind and lost over PLN 1 billion, 1.5 billion as a result of this wrong decision. In 2015, the government of the Platform and PSL said that a gas power plant should be built there. You, in order to win the voters, have invested public money against experts in building a carbon block. Today, after a few years, you go back to the idea of a gas block and say nothing happened. It's done, guys. You have lost 1.5 billion PLN and this is mismanagement. I'm asking for mismanagement. Who in this government is responsible for the loss of 1.5 billion public money? It's not an MP anymore, it's a prosecutor, that's the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u61	Minister, it is not irregular to give a voice to the Member in order to correct it. There doesn't have to be a name to make such a correction. The Minister wants to censor Parliament. The Minister will answer the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I see that the marshal of the opposition must throw a rescue wheel in the form of an additional opportunity to speak. Very precisely in my speech I recalled the circumstances when, as a Platform - PSL, you blocked the construction of a power plant in Ostrołęka, when in 2014 you agreed to solutions which today condemn Poland to a climate dictatorship. Ewa Kopacz and Rafał Trzaskowski in 2014 It's a good opportunity to make it sound again in this room. This is a situation that affects the change in the macroeconomic environment. The Government of Law and Justice behaves responsibly because a power plant in Ostrołęka is needed. In the case of power plants in Ostrołęka this will continue, only an evaluation of the source of electricity production. With regard to the gas power plant that PKN Orlen intends to build in Ostrołęka, it is enough to review Orlen's messages in this regard. This investment will coincide with the safe path of the Polish transformation. It will also be able to be carried out because it will be financed for such investments. It was the Platform and PSL government that allowed climate policy to have a very strong impact on the Polish economy. Year 2014 - Ewa Kopacz, Rafał Trzaskowski, who then announced that electricity prices would not go up. Today, carbon prices are many times higher than they were two years ago. That's the real reason I've been talking about this place twice today. This is the third time I have said this to the Members of the opposition. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked about the government's support for rural hostels' circles. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Anna Gembick, will answer the question. The question will be asked by Barbara Dziuk. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 19 May this year. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, signed a law amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The Act provides for the continuation of financial assistance to the groups of rural hostess already initiated in 2018 by the Government of the United Right. Could I ask the Minister to bring the High House closer to the conditions and rules for providing financial support to the rural hostel groups and explain how this will have an impact on the development of the local community? We know that these wonderful women who create these little homelands care about culture and spread tradition. They really deserve to be supported and helped, to promote above all what is beautiful in our tradition not only in Poland but also abroad. Minister, please inform me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u65	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Anna Gembicka for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u66	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Around the village hostess is an organization developing very dynamically, at the same time with a beautiful long tradition. For 2 years we have been dealing with a real renaissance of this form of activity, as evidenced by the very dynamic, colourful activities of economic and exceptional women. At the end of 2019, as many as 5888 registered wheels were newly created, i.e. it can be said that this law, which was adopted in 2018, has mobilised rural residents to establish such organisations. In as much as 96% the powiats in Poland operate at least one wheel of rural hostels. I always like to use hard data, so I'm going to quote a few of these. In 2018, 5048 rural housewives registered, in 2019 8828 were registered, and on 11 May this year we already have 9113. The number of members of the wheels is as high as 239 thousand. persons. In previous years respectively, PLN 16 million was paid in 2018 and PLN 29 million in 2019. In 2020 we spend as much as 40 million PLN for this purpose. What is important is that all these funds will be used to support the activities of the rural hostel groups. We know that these measures will be very well spent, because their activities are really development activities for the Polish village. Financial assistance will be granted by decision of the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture at the request of a registered circle of rural hostess. Applications may be submitted to the heads of the administrative offices of the agencies. This can be done on a form made available by the agency. As in previous years, this financial assistance could be used for statutory activities. This is a very broad directory of actions. Any registered wheel that makes an application will be able to receive 3, 4 or 5 000. PLN, depending on number. The law will have a positive impact on the development of local social initiatives, on the development of villages both in this economic layer, because I always say that the hostel circles are such small incubators of entrepreneurship, but on the other hand on this cultural layer, on the preservation of our heritage and tradition. The impact of rural hostels' circles on their surroundings is comprehensive. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u67	Thank you very much. Would Mrs Barbara Dziuk also like to ask an additional question? [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u68	Yes, you're welcome. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the work of this social group, which is very active, which creates tradition in Poland. As it has been said, Poland is a strong family and tradition... [[Disruption of reception]] ...thank you very much, because this is a big deal. I also have a question about what I am asked by the representatives of the rural hostel groups in my region, in the Silesian region: Will these applications be submitted throughout the year, is there any time limit and could a meeting, a debate with tax chambers be organised? I know that clearing issues raise a lot of doubts. I think that would be very appropriate. Does the Minister see an initiative for a joint meeting with those who account for it? To make everything right, clear and clear, because the settlement is very simple. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u69	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for asking me an additional question. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u70	As I said earlier, the issue of paying will be under the responsibility of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. We want to proceed with this payment as soon as possible, because we know that the wheels are waiting for these measures, the more that many projects are usually carried out during the summer, many initiatives that are often spent on. What is important, when reporting or applying for funds, the wheels can count on the assistance specifically appointed to this staff of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, so we do not leave them alone. They can count on support at different stages: registration, use or accounting for these measures. We're talking, we're in contact with the housewives' wheels. We know that there is still a need to organise different trainings, different activities to improve competence. Last year we managed to organize more than 40 such meetings, and they were attended by representatives of the tax offices who answered the questions that appeared. Ladies could ask questions, maybe explain the doubts that may have occurred in their activities. This year, of course, we also planned such meetings. I hope it will be possible to carry them out in a stationary form. If not, we will want to organize webinars so that we can connect remotely, be able to take part in such training. We know that there is still a need to improve the competences of NGOs in the field of activities of rural hostels. That's what we do all the time. In addition, there is also a special helpline in the ministry, to which members of the rural hostel circles can call, ask. We are also preparing a new version of the website. We want all the information that is needed for the functioning of the rural hostels' circles to be included here in order to answer these questions as best as possible. We know that there are more and more new ideas, more and more new projects. We want to keep up to date with the needs that are being reported to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u71	Thank you very much. The next question will be addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. Mr Waldemar Andzel will ask them, and the answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Grzegorz Puda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Fair Transformation Fund is one of the mechanisms of the European Green Deal, the European Union's Sustainable Economy Action Plan. This fund is intended to support the transformation of regions whose economies are based on the extraction of coal. Only for the preparation of a fair transition plan will Poland receive EUR 0.5 million from the European Union. These will be plans for three voivodships: Lower Silesian - Wałbrzych, Wielkopolski - Konin, and Silesian - Katowice, Bielsko-Biała, Tychy, Rybnik, Gliwice, Bytom and Sosnowiec. In general, Poland is expected to receive €2 billion from the planned €7 billion for all Member States for energy transformation under the programming for 20212027 from the Fair Transformation Fund. I have questions to the Minister: How much of the mentioned EUR 0.5 million will the Silesian Voivodeship receive to prepare a plan for a fair transition? What entities will be responsible for preparing a fair transition plan for the selected voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u73	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Grzegorz Puda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In answer to these two questions, it must be pointed out that, in fact, the resources for preparing transformation plans are separate resources, apart from those of the Fair Transformation Fund. We received information about receiving support from the Structural Reform Support Programme on 11 May. The value of the support is 500,000. EUR, i.e., by converting into zlotys, about PLN 2 million. The aim of this support is to strengthen the overall capacity of Member States to prepare and implement institutional, structural and administrative growth-friendly reforms. It should be made clear here that this support is an external expert advice and, as is the case, the support will be provided by experts selected by the European Commission in the tender. It should also be stressed in this point that the discussion with the European Commission on the scope of support has still not been completed. In the Annex to the National Report - Poland 2020 The European Commission identified priority investment areas for NUTS 3 units, i.e. for sub-regions located only in three parts of Poland. As you noted earlier, these are subregions: in Silesia - Katowice, Bielski, thousands, Rybnicki, Gliwicki, Bytomski and pineowiecki, in Wielkopolska - Konin subregion and in Lower Silesia - Wałbrzyski subregion. However, we believe that support under the Fair Transformation Fund should also be directed to Lublin, Łódź and Małopolska voivodships, which also have the effects of the transformation process. That's what we're fighting for. On 20 May this year. the first meeting of the Working Group on the Fair Transformation Fund was held in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. Preliminary discussions concerned the possibility of targeting funds from the Fair Transformation Fund in Poland. There has not yet been - and I would also like to make it clear - any discussion about the distribution of available resources between these voivodships. As regards the second question: as mentioned, the advisory support will be provided by experts selected for the public procurement carried out by the European Commission. In developing transition plans they will cooperate with local authorities, regions or entities which, due to the area concerned, will be competent in this area and, of course, with central authorities, with the Ministry. We hope that the work of the working group at our ministry will be helpful in developing such a path of support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel will also ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for this question, for your reply, for the actions taken by the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy in this area. I also have an additional question: When will the negotiations with the European Union on the Fair Transformation Fund be completed and, according to the Ministry, will the planned measures be sufficient to bring about a fully green order? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u77	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That question is quite valid. Well, negotiations on the Fair Transformation Fund are really only at a very early stage. Following a proposal from the European Commission on 14 January, the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament shall draw up their positions. Consequently, the work in the Council of the European Union, in which our ministry is directly involved, is at about the final stage, but we look forward to the presentation by the Croatian Presidency of the third, and we are counting on the last compromise proposal. Finally, the Council should adopt its position in June. The next stage of this work will be the tripartite negotiations between the Council of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Parliament. We hope, High Izbo, that negotiations will be concluded by the end of this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u79	Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and concerns financial and material assistance that the government has allocated to DPS units whose authorities are local governments. The question was addressed by Lydia Burzyńska, Anna Milczanowska, Joanna Borowiak and Mariusz Trepka. She will be the first to ask Ms Joanna Borowiak a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Older people are a particularly vulnerable group, as well as the effects of coravirus infection. Therefore, institutions such as social assistance homes are places requiring not only specific support but also necessary monitoring of the epidemic situation. In Poland we currently have 824 social services houses. They're run by local governments. However, the government did not leave the DPS without help in a situation of danger to the health of the pensioners. He provided them with financial and material support, in terms of personal protective equipment for residents and DPS employees. Currently the epidemic situation in Poland is improving, stabilizing, but constant monitoring is needed. In particular, it appears necessary for social assistance homes, which are the place of the autumn of the lives of people living in these homes for various reasons. Following the concern for seniors, for their safety, I kindly ask the Minister to answer the question: What was the scope of financial assistance, as well as material aid, provided by the government to pensioners and social workers in connection with the epidemic of Coronavirus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u81	Thank you very much. You will be answered by Minister Iwona Michalek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has in its area of activity social assistance houses, which are supervised by the voivode and which are run by local government units, i.e. mostly powiats or, on behalf of powiats, various NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to clarify one more thing. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has in the area of activities social services houses, not confused with medical care facilities... Nursing and healing. ...because very often such mistakes are in the media and that's why I wanted to make it clear, explain. The Member said that we have 824 social services homes - everything agrees - and there are 81 000 social services in these houses. residents. For today, this is the information from last night, we have 26 DPS in quarantine at 824, which is 3.2%. the general population, including 280 residents and 152 DPS employees, are infected. Ladies and gentlemen! The Member asked for the help that the Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Ministry, which I have the honour to represent, sent to social services homes. Well, we put 20 million PLN in cash from the special reserve of the state budget as an over-planned action, and this is the decision of 3 April 2020, to carry out the current tasks of the county's own, i.e. for the financing of current activities. I would like to say that also soon, in June, which will be shortly, there is a planned verification of the needs of social services homes and additional measures will be directed. At the moment, we're gathering information from the voivodships, which will be most needed in social services homes. We are directing funds from European funds and are currently in the process of working with regional social assistance centres from all over the country. Of these funds, additional financial assistance, personal protection measures are directed to social assistance homes. Here we have planned PLN 380 million to transfer through ROPS to social services homes and this is happening at the moment. We depended very much on the beginning, we knew that additional support was needed in terms of personal protection measures for social services homes. And so, thanks to courtesy and cooperation with the Ministry of Health, we managed to obtain and transfer 37 345 l of disinfectant to the welfare homes, 1786 thousand. Masks, 3.5 million pairs of gloves, 522,000. We're gonna go with 116 grand. The suits. The situation is being monitored at this time. Where required by social assistance homes, local governments and voivodships submit new applications to the Ministry of Health for the allocation of these personal protection measures. No earlier than the day before yesterday, Minister Cieszyński, recently present here, accepted the third request of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for funds which through the Agency of Material Reserves will be addressed to social assistance houses. We are trying to make sure that (the bell) those people who are in social services are taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I very much thank the Minister for presenting how the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki supports local governments, both financially and in material terms, even though this is their task, but the senior is a matter of value to the government, to society, to the ministry very important. Minister, you said this in your speech, but I ask you to write it again because the DPS are the places where the infection is most likely, for example because of the age of the pensionees, because they are the elderly and - one more thing - because they are sick, or living with co-morbid diseases. Minister, is the health situation in welfare homes still being monitored and is there further support (the bell) envisaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this situation is being monitored all the time. Since the beginning of the pandemic, actually from the beginning of March, every day, exactly every day, we meet at video conferences with the heads of the social policy departments of the voivodship offices, every day we have reports from them, what is the situation in social assistance homes, every day we talk about it, we respond immediately when assistance is needed. In their reports, social policy directors provide up-to-date and detailed information. We also contact social services homes so that possible assistance, if needed, can be implemented as soon as possible. The services of the voivodships are in constant contact with social assistance houses, with local self-government units. I would like to say that I really appreciate this cooperation between my ministry, the government, and local government units from regions where there are cases of coronavirus infection. I would also like to make it clear that we closed the social services homes quickly, just after it turned out that there was a pandemic. We've put in there a lot of different recommendations that have been implemented by social services houses, and really... Of course, there are people in need, there are older people, sick people, but also disabled people. There are also children there. These are not social assistance homes for the elderly only, there is really a cross-section of society, there are very different people and each needs support. We cooperate with the Ministry of Health in this area. There's still gonna be extra help for the staff when it comes to salary allowances, so I'm really... We would like no infections at all, that is obvious, while they are and where they occur, we try to help wherever possible. We really do support social services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u87	Thank you very much. The next question will also be addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and will be about the money already paid to businesses to save jobs. The first question will be asked by Mrs Joan Lichock.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to receive quite detailed information on the scale of the aid, which is addressed to small, large, medium-sized entrepreneurs, those who, in a situation of huge crisis, save jobs and receive aid from the government. This help is different, as you know well, because there is information about it in the media. Here they work well, among others. public media. This aid is the exemption from the Social Security Office, which is financed by the government, is a parking payment, it is a different kind of tool, which consists of an anti-crisis shield. However, I have the impression that there is little information about specifics, i.e. I would like you to publish or at least present here information about the biggest transfers that have just gone to save jobs, about specific companies, because these people are. They often say, they write... Very often you can meet now, e.g. in social media, with such an entry: for the first time in life The state helped me, for the first time in my life, my company could count on the government. And I would be very grateful, Minister, if at least a few examples, perhaps the largest companies or major transfers, which have just been handed over to save jobs, were presented here. And on this occasion I would also like to learn about the effectiveness of cooperation with local governments. We know of course that there are local governments, there are county labour offices, which unfortunately do not work as we wish, as entrepreneurs would wish. I am thinking, of course, about Warsaw, where the effectiveness of the examination of applications is at a level of several percent and this does not change. Entrepreneurs have not received aid since April and their applications have not been dealt with. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I invite business, entrepreneurs to my district, Sieradzki, to Wieluń, Wieruszow, Zgierza, Kutna. There, the examination of applications is at 90%. This is not far from Warsaw, but aid has already arrived there, because there is no obstruction or failure of the Civic Platform and Mr.Trzaskowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u89	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Minister Alina Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been behind us for almost 2 months of the anti-crisis shield, a shield that first protects jobs, supports entrepreneurs, but also self-employed, and for many companies is perhaps the only chance to survive and maintain jobs. Today, there is no doubt that individual instruments of the anti-crisis shield provide real help in this particularly difficult time for the economy. Coronavirus epidemic and its negative effects are felt in almost every area of life. The anti-crisis shield, ladies and gentlemen, works, and entrepreneurs are very willing to use the instruments contained in it. There are a number of instruments in the shield. The shield is carried out by both voivodship labour offices, county labour offices, and the shield is implemented perfectly by the Polish Development Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge amount of money to protect existing jobs. I think this is also seen in labour market statistics, where, yes, there are people registered as unemployed, but they do not arrive as avalanchely and jumpingly as they could arrive at a time when there would be no such instruments. The total amount of aid granted under the crisis shield is already over PLN 13.5 billion. One of the elements of the shield is a deadly, low-interest loan to micro-entrepreneurs. 3 months the trader has been in business since the loan was received and such a loan is cancelled. So far, 1.5 million applications for micro-credit have been received at the labour offices. The loan has already been granted almost 960 thousand. entrepreneurs for a total amount of nearly PLN 5 billion. Most of the authorities, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, are perfectly capable of implementing and supporting the instruments contained in the anti-crisis shield, because the government, ladies and gentlemen, has thought of all actions within the anti-crisis shield, not only to provide funds for this important task for all of us, but also to secure the costs associated with the operation of this task. It was crucial for all of us, ladies and gentlemen, not to leave those who carry out this task without additional support. Someone else would have done this job, but not the employment offices, which work daily to support entrepreneurs and help them, and on the other hand, to help those who have lost their jobs in this difficult situation, i.e. to act as an intermediary. I think it is the right institution to carry out this task and in many cities, as I said, it is doing very well. Unfortunately, as you said, Warsaw is not fully capable of fulfilling this task. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not been talking about the shield since today, we have been talking about the shield since March. Already in March, it was known that programmes would be prepared, which will be implemented by local governments, those local authorities, which are close to the inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, we have provided funds for this task, we have provided funds for this task, we have developed fast IT tools for this task. The implementation of such a proposal is in principle 5 and 7 minutes. So there are instruments. We are in constant contact with the work offices, we have a video conference, we have not left these institutions alone. In Warsaw, the degree of examination of applications, ladies and gentlemen, is only 16%. Shame! Because there's a lot. Mrs. Member! There is not only a lot of these conclusions in Warsaw. I'll tell you how great the boat is doing. Łódź is doing great, Gdansk is doing great, Wroclaw is doing great... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hawks. ... Hawks. There are counties that are perfectly capable of dealing with these loans. That's why I'm surprised that here in D.C., there is such an approach to entrepreneurs who want to benefit from this support. The government has provided, guaranteed, all the instruments, all the actions, provided care and, I think, all the entrepreneurs, I would also ask the President to take action to effectively support micro-entrepreneurs. Then why the four shields? You should have done one. Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Alina Nowak: Member, let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start by thanking you for everything that's going on. If we say m.st. Warsaw is not doing well because there are many proposals, which means that our help is addressed to very, very many people. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all the officials, both local and employment officials, but above all the officials, employees of the Social Insurance Institution, employees of all these units of the Social Insurance Institution throughout the country, who are so often criticised, for the great work they do, for this work in the afternoons, in the evenings, for this Saturday-Sunday work, for the fact that entrepreneurs receive this help, that they can ask for it, because it is very, very important. Thank you so much for that. I think it's a thank-you for all of us. But also, Minister, I would be grateful if you could - there are still 3 minutes (the bell) - to say more about the benefits on which entrepreneurs can apply, about the parking benefits, about the financing of the salary costs for their employees, about the aid which is real and which can be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u93	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u94	Ladies and gentlemen! There are many, many good things that can be said about these instruments, because, as I said, they just work, and the interest of entrepreneurs in these instruments is very high. Here the Member said: Why four shields? Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking to entrepreneurs, we are constantly monitoring the situation and another shield is the answer to the expectations of the next industry and another group of entrepreneurs. We have, ladies and gentlemen, a dialogue with entrepreneurs... Reduction of wages. ...in terms of job protection. And that's what's important to us. Oh, God. Ladies and gentlemen! We also carry out tasks, as I said, by the voivodship labour offices. These are job protection tasks. A company which has as a result recorded a decrease of 15% to 25% may apply for compensation for employment under downtime or reduced working time. Such an application shall be submitted and supported for each employee subject to downtime or reduced working time. Applications may also be submitted to the Social Insurance Institution for parking or remission of ZUS contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! Information on the anti-crisis shield is widely, I think, disseminated in many places. I can also say that work offices have a great solution to support NGOs supporting self-employed, micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. This is aid from the European Social Fund. It's a perfect instrument, too. Employers submit applications and in principle receive job protection assistance immediately. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, we are watching, we are monitoring the situation in the labour market, and I think the reaction is what is happening in the labour market, which means we have not seen avalanche growth in employment. The positive information, ladies and gentlemen, is that in May, during these 27 days, more job offers were received at the employment offices than throughout April. I think this is a positive signal that defrosting the economy means that we have more and more jobs and those who have lost their jobs will have an opportunity and a chance to return quickly to the labour market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u95	Thank you very much. The next question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, and concerns government solutions for the transport industry in connection with the pandemic of Coronavirus and the restrictions introduced. The first question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about government solutions for the transport industry in relation to the pandemic of Coronavirus and the restrictions introduced. In the current situation, we have a drastic drop in transport. The number of passengers decreased by 80%. , both on the railway and in bus transports. In line with the provisions of the Shield 3.0, support for the lack of revenue from the sale of tickets from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund and compensation for statutory concessions at the same level as in 2019 could be provided for railway carriers, but no rules have been adopted to protect the failing bus transport market. Such rules were introduced by the Senate by adding a formula for municipal and district road transport wherever rail transport was referred to. Thanks to this, bus operators could receive such support and compensation for reduced journeys as rail carriers. These amendments were rejected without discussion. I will add that the transports do not run or almost do not run PKS Bełchatów, Chojnice, Koszalin, Kujawsko-Pomorskie Car Transport, PKS Łódź, Zduńska Wola, Łuków, Nysa, Włoszczowa, PKS Tour Jelenia Góra, PKS Kłodzko, where due to the dramatic situation began the employee strike. Employees do not know when or how much they will receive outstanding payments. In a positive light, in the previous question, my constituency, the orphanage, was called up. When it comes to transport, unfortunately it is not so pink, it is about the PKS Zduńska Wola mentioned by me, which suspended a number of regional connections, or urban communication facilities in individual cities: Kutnie, Zgierz, Pabianice, Sieradz, which do not catch support from any shield. A few questions arise. What are you going to do to help the carriers? What are you gonna say to seniors who won't be able to get to their finals soon enough? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are people supposed to do who want to get to work but who don't have what? I ask for concrete facts, figures, deadlines for the government's proposed solutions. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u97	Thank you very much. Please answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the outbreak of Coronavirus affected Poland not only in the health sense, but also in the economic sense. The bus and rail transport industry also feels this very strongly. Suspended lessons in schools, suspended classes in college, remote work, many people who stayed with their children as part of care for them - all this caused that Poles in the last 2 months did not move so gymnastically, did not travel so everyday and it actually very negatively affected collective transport, and this bus, and this railway. The individual elements of the crisis shield, which have been introduced in the last 2 months, meet many demands that fell both from the railway environment and from the bus transport environment. Of course, these two areas of transport differ not only in their form of movement but also in their organisational form. The entities involved in rail transport are much less in Poland. They are either national or local entities. On the other hand, the bus transport had it to itself that it was left on the free market. Bus transport was mainly carried out by commercial operators, mainly by companies that were earning on it. When there were customers, when there were passengers, there was a salary, but when, due to the health or epidemic situation of these passengers, there was much less - and here I confirm the values that the Member called for, i.e. from 80 to 90%. less - that's when the problems of these transport companies actually started. They can, of course, benefit from the anti-crisis shield, those support instruments that Minister Alina Nowak gave just moments ago. We encourage you to do so. It's really a simple, easy procedure, and it allows you to get financial support, not to fire your employees, and to make this difficult time to survive. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, we have also introduced a number of facilitations, facilities and financial facilities. Madam, allow me to answer these specific questions in writing. We've got a whole package of information here. I am very pleased with this question and that it has aroused the interest of as many as 27 Members and Members. This means that, in fact, collective transport is very close to you. But I'm going to talk about one tool that's being implemented right now. This is an increase in the amount for the Bus Transport Development Fund from 1 PLN to 3 PLN, i.e. the possibility of obtaining as much as 3 PLN for cars kilometres on deficit lines, on those lines on which due to the low number of passengers income cannot be generated. At the moment, the voivodships in all voivodships - and here, ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to this topic and to the transfer of this information to local governments - lead to a call for the creation of new public utility lines. In my view, in the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, many commercial carriers who are currently in difficulty should be involved on the basis of agreements with local authorities in order to be operators on these public utility lines and thus be able to receive up to PLN 3 per tonne-kilometre from the moment of the provision of services on all non-profitable lines. 3 zł, ladies and gentlemen, this is really very much. We estimate that, depending on the region, the cost for cars is between 3 and 5 PLN. Really, this government support, the support that was included in this third edition of the crisis shield, is very important here. We encourage all carriers and local authorities to apply for applications. There is really a lot of money in the Bus Development Fund. In 2020 we secured 800 million PLN for this purpose. These funds in part have been used for recruitment, which has been in operation since the beginning of 2020, but there really is a lot of money left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They are available to those local government units who will want to use them during the year. We encourage this because it will really allow not only transport offers in the localities, powiats or regions of our country, but also allow transport operators, private operators to function in a relatively normal way at that time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u99	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Wiesław Szczepański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today, local railways operate at 27% versus last year. According to Art. 15zzzl
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u101	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Rafał Weber to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u102	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as March is concerned, the epidemic was declared, I am speaking out of my mind, about mid-monthly, which means at the beginning of March transport functioned fairly normally. Those who were supposed to buy monthly tickets, both in bus and rail transport, did it. So that the proceeds to the shipping companies for this reason were unwavering in March. Therefore, these problems in this month have not yet been as evident as in April or May, in which months, as I said in my first speech, actually rail and bus transport were either suspended or severely reduced. I can say, on behalf of the state railway company PKP Intercity, that we did not want to completely eliminate the railway links when facing the expectations of the Polish society. We did not want to deal with the trend of communication exclusion. We wanted, and this was preserved so that the inhabitants of the regions could have access to long-distance trains... Quick turn. ...to trains that were, of course, organized in a limited way. The simplest example: instead of four wagons, there was one, because it is known that there was no need for so many passengers. So that we have maintained in these long-distance connections, by a company which is the total property of the State Treasury, the implementation of these rail links. On the other hand, we have information that regional carriers have also tried to do so, with certain limitations, of course. I repeat once again that all actions which have been directed at the initiative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, will be presented to you, ladies and gentlemen in writing. I hope that they will resolve any doubts about the intentions of our actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u103	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the implementation of infrastructure, road and rail investments, increasing the opportunities for economic development of the various regions of the Republic of Poland and, at the same time, to stimulate the economic growth of our country, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u104	High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Over the last 4.5 years, the Law and Justice Government has invested a great deal in building infrastructure. Sometimes we complain about the obstacles that result from the construction of roads, the pendulum movement, but not immediately Kraków was built. Highway networks or modernised railway lines are the basis for efficient and coherent transport of people and things. Without such infrastructure, it would be difficult to talk about a modern state. Our government uses investment in infrastructure as a fight against the exclusion of communication between different regions and as an important element of development, and it is not only the development of communication in our country, but also the development of the economy. Coronavirus epidemic has not stopped infrastructure, road or rail work in our country, at least those for which the government is responsible. Unfortunately, in local governments it can be different. Maintaining continuity in the implementation of investments and announcing new tenders and signing further contracts ensures stability in the construction market, which is crucial for the economy as a whole in the current situation. This is how the National Road Construction Programme 2014-2023 is implemented, which aims to build high-speed roads and create a coherent transport network of Poland. The programme's limit thanks to the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice has been increased and currently amounts to PLN 142.5 billion. The construction programme of 100 bypasses, i.e. bypassing medium and smaller cities, is a key element in improving the capacity and quality of life of residents. The programme created by the Government of Law and Justice is designed to create bypasses in 100 localities. This programme is very, very important. I know the profession of inhabitants of such cities as: my Gorlice, which are not yet on the basic list, and in which there is a great need for such a ring road. I hope that in your speech, the Minister will say more about the reserve list, about those 53 cities that are on the reserve list. The national railway programme until 2023 is the largest investment programme in the history of the Polish railway. It includes a budget of nearly PLN 76 billion. The program envisages a remodeling of 9,000. railway lines. Through the implementation of this programme there is an improvement of connections between voivodship cities, as well as among other important economic centres. In addition, rail connections with maritime ports will be provided for the integration of different modes of transport. The road investment programme for 2016,2023 has a total budget of PLN 1650 million and is intended to be used to carry out 189 railway investments. The railway+ programme, adopted by the Council of Ministers in December 2019 - its main objective is to complement the railway network with railway connections of towns with a population of more than 10 000. persons who do not have access to passenger or freight railways, with voivodship cities, and improve the internal communication and socio-economic cohesion of these regions with public support. The total amount of funding allocated to the implementation of the programme is over PLN 6.5 billion. The rolling stock strategy for 2017 and 2020 with a view to 2023, implemented by PKP Intercity, envisages the modernisation and purchase of new vehicles using a total budget of over PLN 7 billion. The investments are intended to cover more than 1.5 thousand. vehicles. Thanks to the investments carried out almost 80% connections operated by the carrier are to be compiled from new or upgraded rolling stock and at least 77% trains have to have wireless Internet. The programme of construction of 200 stops, which was announced on 7 May this year, assumes that within 5 years of its operation it will ensure that 200 stops are carried out for an amount of PLN 1 billion. New railway stops will be built, the ones that haven't existed in years. We extend platforms there (the bell) where long-distance trains cannot stop. This will be one of the elements of defrosting the Polish economy by increasing public investment. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! As I said at the beginning, investing in infrastructure is an important part of the development of communication, but also of the economy. It's the infrastructure investments... You're very close to the end. ...are the most important element that can stimulate the economy in times of crisis and slowdown and help to combat unemployment. But we also remember Polish sub-contractors building highways in 2011 and 2012... Go ahead and finish it, Member. ...who did not receive payment for what they were doing for the Polish state. I also have a question for the Minister: How does the government now secure the contracts of the current subcontractors? Thank you very much, Member. You've run out of time. Of course, my colleagues will ask for detailed investments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u105	I'm really sorry, but we have to watch our time. Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We will divide this response into road investments and rail investments. I will talk about the first ones, but later, in the next part of the speech, Minister Andrzej Bittel - about railway investments. Ladies and gentlemen! Infrastructure investments aim to create coherent, efficient road and rail connections. They are intended to make the transport of people or things safe, comfortable, comfortable and punctual. High-speed roads shorten the distance, make the journey between points A and B faster and shorter. And that's the essence of infrastructure investments. On the other hand, there is another thing that you have mentioned. Thank you to the entire law and justice club for this information. It is an economic aspect that is always important, but especially now, in a health crisis. There are concerns that this crisis will not affect the economy as well, and infrastructure investments are hundreds of billions of zlotys that are pumped into the Polish economy. Ladies and gentlemen! In such a very telegraphic summary I will tell you about the value of investments in government programs, programs that were created and implemented by the Government of Law and Justice and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. At the moment, it's four programs. The first programme is the National Road Construction Programme 2014 and 2023 (with a view to 2025). As part of this programme, namely today, there are 94 tasks worth nearly PLN 53 billion in implementation. So that these are the measures that are already involved, which are transferred to Polish contractors and subcontractors who work for the Polish economy. The tender includes 15 tasks worth nearly PLN 12 billion, while among these pre-project sentences there are tasks worth PLN 37 billion. All these measures will be involved in the coming months and years. They will not only make us have safe, comfortable, comfortable road connections, but also make these funds pump into the Polish economy. The second programme is a program announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It's about the 100 bypass program. This year we will announce at least 15 tenders for these tasks, so that this is the next financial means that we will involve. Such bypasses as Zodyń, Gostyn, Gryfino, Krajńskie Strzelce, Brzezie, Wąchock - these tenders will be launched this year. At this moment we have signed 71 investment programmes, of course over time we will sign more. Local Roads Fund - this year PLN 3200 million as government support for investments in local roads. This will make it possible to announce nearly 2300 tenders under the basic list, but we already have information about savings, we already have information that this basic list will be accompanied by tasks from the reserve list, so that the next dozens of tasks under the Self-Government Road Fund will be carried out. And a reserve of general subsidies - PLN 336 million. In the coming days, the Minister of Finance will gradually inform local governments that the subsidy will be increased and they will be able to carry out investment tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u107	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We carry out many railway projects, which we often and numerously inform you about. In fact, in her introductory speech, she described them perfectly. The most important national railway programme, which is an extremely advanced programme, whose value has increased by 10 billion since its adoption, which serves the development of linear infrastructure, aimed at the best communication between different parts of Poland and each other, is implemented at a level of over 56%, completed in 13%. This means that we are really very advanced and it will not be necessary, as in the previous perspective, to transfer money from railway funds to rolling stock, which of course has made the carriers happy, but has made railway investment contractors unhappy, who carry out tasks within the framework of this money only now, in this view. The next programme is the "Rail+' programme. In recent days, a call has been announced, very important because it is intended to combat the exclusion of communication, to allow the government of law and justice to cooperate with the local government - to jointly implement investments on the best possible terms, because 15% the own contribution, compared to all other programmes implemented (The Bell), is the best parameter. The station investment programme, the rolling stock strategy - the Commissioner mentioned this - are programmes which aim to facilitate access to railway infrastructure, but also to ensure a good, friendly, pleasant journey. We hope that Polish passengers and guests will be back on the Polish railroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u109	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. There's a lot of calls. I would like all of you to be able to take part in the discussion, so I propose 1 minute for the question. No, two minutes. But that's when not everyone will be able to, darlings. It's a minute and a half. It'll only take one minute. Okay, one and a half minutes. But if somebody goes... One and a half minutes to ask a question. The first Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The data provided by Barbara Bartus and the ministers of Weber and Bittel are very welcome. The amount is impressive. The number of kilometers of roads or railway lines... Ladies and gentlemen, this is impressive. These are facts, and even if we wanted to curse reality, that's what they look like. The fact we heard about yesterday is that Poland is Poland, as a result of the procedures of President Andrzej Duda, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, [[Joy in the Chamber]] together with the countries of the European Union (Applause), the Visegrad Group, the Tri-marriage Initiative... Ha, ha, ha! In the European Union, there is a budget: EUR 750 billion for so-called. the economic recovery fund from the crisis of the Union, including for Poland there are 64 billion PLN. [[Applause]] This will also be an impulse when it comes to building roads, railways, etc. Bravo, European Union! In an EU perspective 2021.2027, which is being worked on, and we know that the whole is going to be over PLN 1 trillion, Poland is also looking for big money. It is huge money from financial shields dedicated to the expansion of such activities (The Bell) as roads for Polish performers. Minister! I wanted to ask, will EU money also be spent on roads such as the S12, the Łódź section, such as the construction of the Radom ring road? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u111	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to stick to the time limit so you can all ask questions. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Propaganda. It was supposed to be a show of success, but unfortunately the truth is different. Luxtorpeda, announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki, lies down. When it comes to railway projects - delays, delays, exits of contractors from construction sites. There is a railway line no 7 Warszawa - Lublin, there is a railway line Warsaw - Radom. When it comes to road projects - similarly, delays. The S12, which Mrs Milczanowska asked, is standing still, nothing is happening. We have environmental decisions, but no design... Charged. ...and all the more reason why there is no construction process. S74? Even intact, and yet this road is included in the programme of the European TEN-T network. In the TEN-T network there is a Y project that you have not taken on, the Y project, which has been for many years since 2014, at the top of the Juncker list. Propaganda, propaganda, propaganda. Two years ago, you did not use PLN 2 billion from the National Road Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What amount didn't you use last year? Mr. President, it's time. You didn't make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. There's no envoy? There it is. There it is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few weeks ago, I submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Infrastructure regarding the modernisation of the 190 railway line. The Minister was kind to say that this railroad has a low priority. I would like to stress that all local authorities from the region, the city of Bielsko-Biała, the agglomeration of Beskidzka, the district of Cieszyn, the municipalities which lie on this route, have adopted resolutions that this investment is crucial for the southern subregion of the Śląskie voivodship. That's not what the Minister says. Yes, there is a "Kolej" programme and the Minister urges you to apply to this programme. You also say that a 15% contribution is no problem for local governments today. Minister, 15%. out of PLN 220 million this is a huge amount which the local governments do not have today. My question is: Do you see the chance to make these investments and that this contribution required by local governments is reduced from 15% up to 5% ? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wanted to thank you for this information, because it is also a reason for asking questions. First of all, I wanted to ask you about the fate of the S11 road in Wielkopolska. It's a road that's the backbone of communication. The long-standing voivode, Mr Hoffmann, now a Member, will grant me a point. Especially for this initiative we established an association along the road Bytom - Kolobrzeg. The strategic road to 33 counties, 13 of these districts lies along this road. There are, of course, staggered bypasses, but this really is a narrow throat. It's also connected to the bypasses. The estuary perimeter, the Obornik ring road or the south is now finished by the Kępna ring road. There seems to be a need for an impulse, as the spatial plans for this route have changed many times and often the designated areas are built up. We need a decision here. The second thing is bypasses. Thank you for this information, that the Gostyn along the S12 road is begun, but the neighboring Jarachevo is not involved. It's a really narrow throat, and that's where it's gonna get stuck. Hence the question about the possibility of building Jarachev. Kalisz's perimeter is also on this list, not this year, but in the following years. Why is there an attempt to change the course of this route? The municipality of Skalmierzyce is designated for this course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is one road built, there are overpasses and at the moment it is proposed, at least so informs the local government, concerned farmers who have the best vegetable soil in the area, that a few kilometers away will be a new course of this bypass. Thank you very much, sir. Is this true, or do you want to change this course? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u117	Thank you. Please, Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last 5 years, in Lower Silesia, the region from which I come, road investments are carried out on a scale that has never happened before. We're investing in local roads. Only in 2019 there was a record amount under the Local Roads Fund - over PLN 250 million. We're investing in express roads. We have completed the construction of road S5, road S3 to Bolkowa in Lower Silesia, implement section to the border with the Czech Republic, prepare A4 for implementation, prepare S5 on section Wrocław - Wałbrzych, and any moment now we will also have the exact course of construction of the express road S8 on section Wrocław - Kłodzko. These roads, of course, serve primarily the inhabitants, but also serve the economic development of Poland, the Lower Silesian region. In this context, I would like to express my great gratitude, joy for the two southern sections of the S3 and S8 express roads, because these sections will run through the Sudetsky Foothills. This is an area that needs special support from the Polish state, also in the field of road investments. This is the area that belongs to the poorest areas of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. Thank you for doing this. There were also decisions related to the construction of new bypasses, among others. Milicz, also Oława. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this context, I would like to ask the Minister if he is in the current situation... Time, sir. ...any risk associated with the coronavirus for financing... Thank you very much, sir. ...Oława's Circuits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u119	Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Promises are what PiS does best. And I would like to talk about the fulfillment of these promises and the credibility. In 2017, Minister Rafalska and the Dajczak voivode made a promise that there would be 1 million PLN on STEŚ for the Słubice ring road. Also in September, when there was an election campaign, such promises were made. There is no 1 million PLN and there is no Słubic ring road. Kargowa Oblast in Lubuskie Voivodeship promised the residents themselves President Andrzej Duda and representative of GDDKiA. There isn't. From what I hear, Mr. President is to be in the Lubuskie Voivodeship tomorrow. Then remind me, Minister, Mr President, that the people of Lubuskie Province like to keep these promises. I intervened in these matters at the meetings of the Infrastructure Committee, wrote interpelations, called for consultations under the 100 bypasses programme. And there's nothing. At the committee meeting on 8 January, you, Minister, promised me the answers to these questions. I don't have any answers either. So what's your credibility, Minister? More, I personally went to see Minister Adamczyk and talked about these matters. The Minister promised to find solutions. He didn't find a solution. He also didn't find time to answer my questions... Time. ...and he promised. What is the credibility of Minister Adamczyk? Unfortunately, you didn't make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! On behalf of my constituents, the voters of Mr Hoffmann and many of those who are from the horsemen's district, I would like to add the northern ring road of the Circle, which you personally promised to Prime Minister Morawiecki during the campaign. I would also like to see the commercial and service complex finally realized with Konin's PKP station, about which Minister Adamczyk spoke here on 9 January, that this investment will begin. I would like to ask whether this investment has already started and when there is a chance for it to be implemented, similarly with regard to this ring road of the Circle, because it was said that there would be a chance for an extended list and that it would be there. Is he gonna find it or isn't he gonna find it? The third important investment is the modernization of the national road No 15 Gniezno - Jewish - Czeluścin towards September. In response to my interpellation, the Minister informed that this investment would also be included in this action plan carried out by the General Directorate of National Roads. Is there any chance that these investments will be included in the programme and will be implemented through public funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to ask a question about railway no. 7, which was one of the first built on Polish lands. It was put into service on August 17, 1877, so nearly 150 years ago. During this time almost 150 years it has been modernised, rebuilt many times, but only thanks to the money of the European Union, so to speak, is an overall attempt to rebuild this line. It's not that colorful, because the choice of Astaldi has caused, as I just wanted to ask, a delay in repairing this line probably for at least 2 years - I would ask you to approximate these delays - but also the problems of subcontractors, the problems of clearing subcontractors on this line, which is already a matter of settlement. I would also like to ask you a specific question. In addition to the repair of the line are the facilities accompanying this line, there are stations which are in part in the program, and in part the local authorities took over it and are carrying out renovations, as in the case of the railway station in Motycz, which is being renovated by the sumpt and efforts of the municipality of Konopnica, and will be allocated to this part of the station, and in the part of the local government. However, there are accompanying buildings, e.g. in this Motich, but also in turn for each station, historic wooden buildings, whose picture today is really [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's tragic. Gentlemen, do you have any program to save these buildings? Will he remain on this modernized line such a picture of destruction? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice. Remotely. You're wasting your time, Marshal. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. It's okay, isn't it? You're welcome, sir. Time's ticking!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A Member from Law and Justice said that Krakow was not built immediately. Yes. You didn't make it. But it's already been done. You didn't make it. We left you Poland brick and a number of investments started. Do not waste what we started by force of Polish companies, by force of billions of zlotys from the Polish budget and budget of the European Union. [[Applause]] Subcontractors. How can you speak today at the conference in the presence of the President and Prime Minister, bragging about the budget of the European Union... After all, two weeks ago you criticized the European Union, and today you are saying that you are on the European side. With your mouth. That's not true! I would like to say that this budget, amounting to EUR 60 billion, 37 billion in grants, remaining in loans, requires, first of all, what you do not understand: compliance with the requirements of environmental order and the rule of law. So I observe you: obey the law so that you do not waste the money that is to go to the Polish budget. Constitution, sir. It's months of work. And the question is also, what road investments are planned, that money will go to. Let me remind you that this is a long, reliable road and requires the attitude of the rule of law, Mrs President. Obey the law. And specific questions. First, the ring road, road S8, Wrocław - Kłodzko. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for extra time due to delays. What's the delay? You've wasted the project two plus one. Highway A4, Curve - Wrocław. Why is there still no concept resulting from this task? There is also no investment included in the programme. Go ahead and finish it, sir. Dear S3, Polkowice - Lubin. Two years late. When's the ending? Episode A18 between Olszyna and Krzywa. The worst road in Europe. When will it be finished? That is why the time has been limited for all Members to make it. You must leave now, sir. That's what I wanted to ask you when I asked you to answer, because in this case, you just didn't make it with these investments. Thank you. [[Applause]] It wasn't very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u127	Thank you. And I'm really asking everyone to stick to the appointed time. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u128	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At a press conference with passing trains - this is a very important detail - the programme of 200 presidential stops was announced loudly. The website provides information on this subject, which ends with a statement: The programme is open to changes and new proposals. Exactly: Is this an approved program? How about a preliminary phase of the project? I'd like to know who and until when can make proposals for changes or new stops. Will there be consultations with local authorities and organisations and when will the Ministry inform them? What kind of funding is envisaged? Cost of construction or modernization 100% will be covered by the State or is compulsory contribution of local authorities expected? And if so, at what level? What are the time frames of the different stages in this programme? Finally, will the Ministry implement the programme of 200 presidential stops, even if President Andrzej Duda is not elected president for the second term of office? Thank you. [[Applause]] We'll do 400.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the road S12, namely the section from Piotrków Trybunalski to Kozen, which is the ring road of Sulejów. Why is nothing going on in this case? Although an environmental decision was issued a year ago with immediate feasibility, nothing is happening until today. Why, despite the promises made by the Members of the Law and Justice, didn't even plan a junction to the A1 motorway which is being built? These are the basic questions, above all, of the people of Sulejów, who believe that this is the most important investment in the history of Sulejow, who believe that without this investment it is impossible to live there normally. So far, this road is only a sausage offered by Law and Justice before every election, among others. Also because of you. Ha, ha, ha! The second question concerns the railway stop at CMK in the district of Rawsko, in the municipality of Biała Rawska. Why, despite the interpellation, despite the local authorities' positions, despite the signatures of the residents, do the state still disagree with the construction of this railway station? I would remind you that there is no stop in the district of Rawski, nearest are several dozen kilometers away, in Opoczno and in Skierniewice. One last question, about the Birkenau ring road. In general I would like to ask about more bypasses in the Łódź voivodship, but I will only ask about Brzezina. Despite many declarations Today's residents [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't even know what mileage this bypass is going to take. Please answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The construction program of 100 bypasses provides for the construction of seven bypasses for Lower Silesia, including three in my constituency. These are the bypasses of Głogów, Duck and Legnica where I live. The Legnica perimeter is to be built within the national road No. 94 and will run both within and outside the administrative borders of Legnica. The construction of bypasses depends largely on good cooperation with local authorities. That is why I ask for information about this cooperation, among others. with the Legnica government. At what stage are the jobs? I know that in the city area, the media have already informed you that work has begun. Plus, I'd like to ask you about the highway. A4 from Wrocław to Krzywa towards Legnica. This is the most corked section of this highway. There's no emergency lane. This is the shortest road for us to the airport and in other directions of Poland. Work is being carried out on the choice of the best concept of changing this situation, whether by adding more lanes with an emergency lane, or by building a parallel road with another course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are different concepts. I ask you to answer the question at which stage the work is already at. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to names and promises, you make things up beautifully, while in practice there is poverty. In 2012, the government of the Platform and PSL gave the first section of the A2 motorway east of Warsaw, the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki, after 4 years of taking over the government. After five years of your government, you didn't even finish the second episode that we started in 2015. And that's the story of your governments. [[Applause]] In a country where governments change, there should be a continuation of key issues for the state, such as the construction of road infrastructure. It's not unusual. If there's money, it should be expensive. The extraordinary thing is that there's money and there's no effect. This is the effect of your governments. [[Applause]] Another big problem is the lack of collisionless crossings between railways and roads. Many cities in Poland suffer. You're inventing some kind of program. Why isn't there a collisionless intersection in the large district city of Minsk Mazowiecki? Why isn't there such a crossroad in the town of Frosty? Why are there no collisionless crossings on such a heavily loaded E20 line? Why didn't you build it for eight years? The safety, health and life of people are at stake, and you're still talking about programs plus. Do the normal thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't make it. [[Applause]] That's not good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u135	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The road S10 Bydgoszcz - Toruń is a key road for the development of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, it is a road expected by the inhabitants, because this road was the last road for many inhabitants of our voivodship, for many of our relatives and friends. The road is to be implemented in the public-private partnership system. At the Parliamentary Group meeting. The construction of the S10 Road on 13 February was asked when to expect a request to Eurostat for an opinion on the implementation of this road in the PPP formula. Such an opinion is necessary in order for the Council of Ministers to adopt an appropriate resolution on this matter. The Ministry's representative informed that such a request had been made. It follows from the discussions with Eurostat representatives that such a decision is closer than further. In the meantime, you have recently informed me that such a request has not been made. Recently, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, a member of the Council of Ministers, informed that the work on this road is at the final stage and the Council of Ministers is due to adopt a document on this matter in a few days' time. This document will be without Eurostat's opinion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know, Minister, that you will find it difficult to answer this question today to this declaration by Minister Schreiber... Thank you very much, sir. ...but please, because the people of our voivodship have had enough of a declaration to make you answer in writing on this matter when this road will be made and when the request will be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! You asked everyone to ask questions, so stick to your time and get to the podium quickly, because we're wasting time. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL-Kukiz15. I would ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to prepare himself. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u138	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of the Pyryc ring road. I filed an interpellation on the Pyrzyc ring road. Unfortunately, you write in your multi-annual programme that you want to open the Stargard - Thoughtborz railway line, while the general management, ladies and gentlemen, is already implementing the Myśliborz ring road, thus preventing, ladies and gentlemen, the restoration of this line. The Marshal of the voivodship wants to spend money on the construction of the Pyrzyc ring road, inhabitants, and Pyrzyce commune. You do not want to agree to build this ring road on the old railway line. Let it go, ladies and gentlemen, because if you let it go in Myśliborz, there's no point in retrieving it. Give me permission. We don't want any money from you, just let the local authorities realize the Pyrzyc ring road. Today, don't block this investment senselessly, because money, like I said, doesn't need it. We just need your permission, ladies and gentlemen. That is what I call for on behalf of the people of Pyrzyc. If you have ever had the opportunity to pass through this historic old city, today all this traffic instead of the expressway S3 takes place through this old historic city. Self-governments know how to do it. We ask you not to persist in this humiliation because it doesn't make sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I move on to the most important investment both for the inhabitants of Jastrzębie-Zdrój and for Silesia, i.e. the reconstruction of the Jastrzębie-Zdrój - Katowice railway, I will remind you of a few facts. 7 September 2005 - SLD terminates the railway line. 19 September 2008 - Minister Grabarczyk abolishes the last railway line Jastrzębie - Katowice. And thank you for doing so well. They made it. Today, it must be said that this investment, which is very expected by the inhabitants of this village, Jastrzębia-Zdroj, close to 100 thousandth city, has a chance to realize thanks to the actions of the current Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship Mr Chełstowski, who gives the opportunity to move this investment quite high in the ranking, as well as to the project prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure. This is, ladies and gentlemen, 525 million for this investment. Today is the question: Will the local government of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, be able to manage it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u141	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left, is preparing to enter the platform quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the last 5 years, the Law and Justice Government has tried to match the success of road construction, high-speed routes of the Civic Platform and PSL. So? It didn't work. You didn't make it. Where are your successes, my fellow Member? I'll give you one example. In 2019 - 450 km and this is your absolute record, and we in 2012 - 573 km. You didn't make it. It's even worse in my constituency. In Bielsko-Biała road S1 from Bielsko to Mysłowice, key. You got the project ready in 2015. What have you done over the last six years? You managed to divide this project into six stages and only now, in May of this year, was the contract signed for the first stage. Minister, these are facts. And here's a picture of Mrs. Szydło... Prime Minister Szydło. ...which announces the success of the road construction in 2016, surrounded by a banquet of Members of Law and Justice. Even worse is the BDI road, the Beskydy Integration Road, which was your electoral commitment. You didn't make it, it's not in funding at all. It is a road connecting Bielsko-Biała with Krakow, one of the key roads and very much needed. You promised the voters you'd do it. He doesn't even have funding. You didn't do it. You didn't make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u143	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wiesław Szczepański. And Mr Stefan Krajewski is preparing to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! You told the minister that at the moment, the government, the Ministry, had started recruiting for the program "Kilewil+. However, I have a question as to whether, at present, local governments, which will have to pay PLN 1.5 billion, will be able to raise these funds, looking at the fact that they will have to finance the railroads in debt. You said earlier, Minister, that monthly tickets were sold. I'll tell you, the money for these monthly tickets has been returned because the schools have been suspended; monthly tickets have been refunded - I'm talking about the previous question. I have a question. When will the E59 railway line be put into service on the section Czempin - Rawicz? I'm looking at what happened in Leszno, where today the company is undressing a built platform because it just did it wrong. I am glad that we have completed the E5 expressway between Wrocław and Poznan, but I have a question. There's no gas station, no restaurant, no service point for people to stop there. It is said that in July 2019 a tender was launched for the ILO in Wilkowice. I'd like to know if he's staying. done or not. One last question. In the light of what is happening today with regard to rolling stock, shouldn't the state take into account the possible leading role as a contracting authority and agree with the marshals that the purchase of electric sets will be organised centrally, because today the purchase of a single set is huge costs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But shouldn't there be some collective purchase carried out by the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice, is preparing. I'm here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u146	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are much better at building Rail Baltica compared to Poland. The NIK report, which appeared in 2019, does not leave a dry thread on the activities of both the Ministry and PKP PLK. Delays, money that is spent improperly, uneconomically. All inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, the inhabitants of Białystok are waiting for the acceleration to take place. Everything is moving, snails, there is no action on these roads. At the moment there are 16 projects of the Bialystok railway ring road. Should we spend our money on other projects, on the next planned passage of this ring road instead of on the reconstruction section? It's not in your head that this railroad has been running in small countries for a long time, and you're not doing it with us as usual. Of course, you're bragging about how beautiful it all looks. 22 months of delay on the route Lewki - Hajnówka, a small route, there is not even electric traction. You can't do it again. We're doing it. Of course, you're good at planning and promises. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will there be an improvement? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u147	Thank you. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. You are preparing Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u148	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The government of law and justice is doing just fine. We're doing it. [[Applause]] Here are the details. The Self-Government Road Fund - a historical one that has not yet been. Schletinski. 36 billion PLN for modernization and construction of district and municipal roads. Only for my region this year is over PLN 100 million for nearly 100 tasks and more than 140 km of roads. But it's also a program to build 100 bypasses... Promises, propaganda. ...with the Brest Kujawski and Lipn ring road. Minister, the people of my region and local government are very grateful that they will be able to take modern and safe roads. Lubu-dubu. But we are also able to manage railway investments, because the National Railway Programme by 2023 is also a historical programme, it is over PLN 75 billion, but it is also a station investment programme that I want to ask about. Ten years from now, 15 years from now. There are nearly 200 stations for modernization, including the long-awaited modernisation of the stations in Włocławek and Grudziądz. Minister! Are these railway investments in Włocławek and Grudziądz not at risk in the face of the situation of the fight against the economic consequences of Coronavirus? I ask you to calm the residents in this regard. As it was said at the beginning, it is very important to make investments, because they are the ones that stimulate the economy. We're doing it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition. Mrs Wanda Nowick is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of infrastructure investments in Żywiecczyn, Podbeskidzie and Teschen Land, we had a real festival of promises from representatives of the PiS. You're best at propaganda, but you're not doing what you promised. The priority investment to be made is the section of the expressway S52: Bielsko-Biała - the junction of Suchy Potok - Wadowice - Głogoczów - Kraków, or so-called. The Beskydy Integration Road. You guys made a great promise. Another thing is the construction of the second S1 expressway on the section Żywiec - Soła node - Przybędz node, 8 km, due to the increasing traffic of trucks. Next investment: completion of the revitalization of railway line No 139 Katowice - Zwardoń on sections Bielsko-Biała Główna - Bielsko-Biała Lipnik with the construction of the second track and Wilkowice Bystra - Łodygowice - Żywiec, with the addition of the second track, and Cicina - Zwardoń. Another important investment: revitalisation of railway line 97 on the section Żywiec - Jelenia - Sucha Beskidzka. It is also possible to forget about the funding for the revitalization of railway line 190 on the section [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bielsko-White - Jumpers. Thank you very much, Member. Minister! They're concrete. Our region is waiting for these investments. Thank you very much, Member. Unfortunately, you can't do it. You can't do it. Again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u151	Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u152	Me without a card, if that's what it is. Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the planned S11 expressway in the footsteps of the national road no. 11, which is to be crucial for the connection of the north of Poland, Kołobrzeg, with the south, Piekary Śląskie, and connect with the A1 motorway in the Śląskie voivodship. This investment is facing increasingly new problems, and its implementation is constantly being shifted. In Tarnowskie Góry there is to be a bypass of the city and a section which assumes the intersection of the city between two districts, cutting off practically one of them. According to the project documentation, this is to be ready by the end of 2020. The investment cost for the Śląskie voivodship is about PLN 3 billion. For a 60-kilometer section, mostly planned after a new trail, the final variant of the route was to be chosen. The project itself costs nearly PLN 3 million. Given the great importance of the road for the region and the whole country, I ask you to answer in writing. What are the reasons for such large delays in the implementation of this investment? Is the final course and time of the investment known? Have the protests of the people of Tarnów Mountains been taken into account, who alarmed that the road will practically divide the city and destroy green areas, including forests... Thank you, Member. ...and a flood in the Pniowiec district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u153	Thank you. I'm sorry I did, but I wanted you all to have time to ask questions. Please, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The sustainability of our country, our homeland, these are facts, these are actions. These are not empty words, these are not promises from the time of cardboard state and poop stones. That's attention. small homelands, because our country, our Republic, is not only standing in big cities, although we see that big cities cannot cope even with entrepreneurs. So here is the care of this district Poland, the municipal Poland. [[Applause]] Announced in May this year. By the President and the Minister of Infrastructure, the stop program is to build 200 stops. I have a question: What are the assumptions of this program, Minister? That's one thing. How was the list of 200 railway stops to be built? I want to thank you here on behalf of the little country, the end of the world. And the third question is, is this a closed list? Because there are a number of white spots that could be taken into account and that are waiting for such support, among others. Kłobuck, also a small homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u155	Thank you and thank you very much for your time discipline. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. Mr Zbigniew Hoffmann is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. and Mrs. PiS, you're experts. You are indeed experts, but not in the field of development and infrastructure, but propaganda of success, PR, for 2 billion PLN donated to public television. I can congratulate you today. I congratulate you for not wasting the efforts of the Polish government from the 2011-2015 term of office as much as you could. But yet you destroy: railway Y, so important for the whole of Poland. You build the highway in such a way that it is hell for all travelers between Łódź and Katowice. You're funding the S14 without the most important bypasses. This road turns away from the people of our city, Łódź. Your voivode has announced the construction of the Novosolna ring road by the middle of the monuments of the intersection. Finally, all you're talking about is the Birkenau ring road. You couldn't make it, and you wouldn't. Please inform me in writing, ladies and gentlemen. You didn't make it, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Grzegorz Hoffmann, Law and Justice. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wanted to say a few words about the Self-Government Road Fund. I feel particularly empowered to do so because for 4 years as a representative of the Government of Law and Justice, the Wielkopolska voivode participated in the implementation of this programme. First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for this programme, because this is a groundbreaking programme, ladies and gentlemen. We definitely did it because it's a program that allows us to rebuild, build... For your own, exclusively, without criteria, distribution. You have a manner of interrupting. I'm asking you to calm down. This is a program that supports local governments, and it is all over the country - 36 billion PLN. For my Wielkopolska it's 700,000. so far for the implementation of this programme. This is money, ladies and gentlemen, which reaches these smallest municipalities - earlier these local governments could not build district and communal roads because of their budgetary constraints. Now they can. And that's a fundamental issue. And, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a surprise for you. Well, also on behalf of your local government from Wielkopolska, I would like to thank the ministers, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, because I received such signals and as a voivode, and also now as a Member. So thank you very much for implementing this programme. The Minister has settled all my doubts by saying what the means for implementing this programme will be. He will continue. We made it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. Mr Rychlik, Law and Justice, is preparing. Did the Member talk about sketches? There's no such program anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u160	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the S19 route, specifically her sublasic episodes. I know that several tenders have already been announced, mainly within the southern ring road of Bialystok, but I don't think any of them have been settled yet, and one of them has been annulled. What about the other tenders? What about the Siemiatic ring road, what about the Bielsk Podlaski ring road? What about the national road No 8 Białystok - Augustów? It's the way of death, there are accidents every week. What standard will it be built and whether it will be rebuilt? Minister! Just a few more questions about the railroad. Bialystok railway ring road, a very important investment. You have proposed many options, but unfortunately most of them do not agree with the people. When will a specific option be identified and when will the public consultation with the population be carried out? Because it's very, very important. Finally, an episode of Białystok - Czyżew. It is an episode between Białystok and Czyżew, but the whole route is the route Białystok - Warsaw. There's been a call for tenders, there's a lot of delays. When will the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodship be able to enjoy the fast train between Białystok and Warsaw? What will be the railroad, what speed, because there are many doubts about this, and when will this investment be completed? I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik. Then you connect with a Mularczyk who... We've already got a connection to him. Then Mr Suchoń prepares himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In 2014 the S8 expressway connecting Warsaw and Wrocław was established, passing through Sieradz. This caused additional burdens on national roads No. 45 and 43 and total daily congestion and paralysis of Wielenia. As a Member, and at the same time a citizen of Wieluña, I have taken steps to bring this problem closer to the general management and the Ministry of Infrastructure. And here I would like to thank you very much for the repeated meetings with Minister Adamczyk, Minister Weber, and Minister Żuchowski of the General Directorate, which resulted in the development of a plan for the passage of this ring road, which connects the national roads running through Wieluń. On 8 February, the people of Wieluń received a joyful message coming from the Ministry that Wieluń was on the list of 100 ringroads of the government program. In view of the above, I would like to ask you at what stage is the implementation of this investment, as well as the investment concerning Błaszek and Łowicz. Minister! As a result of the pandemic, which is due to the economic crisis, which still will not touch Poland so deeply... Question: "Isn't 100 bypasses in danger and these roads will be built according to the previous schedule?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u163	Thank you very much. Connecting with Mr Mularczyk. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry about earlier communication problems. I would like to stress that the Local Roads Programme, the 100 bypasses programme, the Rail+ programme are extremely important programmes which have significantly modernised the issue of transport and communication in Małopolska. I want to focus on this region. The Self - Government Road Fund itself has allowed more than 200 km of roads to be financed. It's 170 jobs: 42 district roads, 128 municipal roads. It is the construction of 214 km of roads: 118 km of district roads, 96 km of municipal roads. Another program, a program of 100 bypasses, allowed for the preparation of investments for the construction of seven bypasses: Limanowa, Nowy Targ, Piwniczna, Makowa Podhalański, Tarnow's eastern ring road, Trzebini or Wadowice. Here, particular attention must be paid to the basement ring road, which is designed and which will allow for the future connection of the proposed court with the basement ring road and the creation of a fast communication route to the state border. I would also like to conclude by thanking you for the work that is underway on the decision-making process and the Podłęże - Piebello railroad. And I also wanted to ask the ministers here to give us a closer look at the progress made in the implementation of both these very important investments for the whole of Małopolska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Law and Justice, is preparing to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I regret to say that in recent months the Ministry of Infrastructure has turned into the Ministry of Surveillance and Propaganda. We've all seen surveillance in rail transports, it's outrageous, and this propaganda is shocking. Even though investments in high-speed roads - just 12 billion zlotys this year - are only 60% of what was the previous year. The time from the opening of tenders to the signing of the contract extended from 118 days in 2014 to 241 in 2018 - absolute inability - not to mention the time from the announcement of the tender to the conclusion of the contract with the contractor: in the previous perspective - 355 days, 2018 - 723 days. This is an absolute organizational knockout, and I'm not surprised that there is no Minister Adamczyk who likes to shine in the flash during press conferences, but when you have to answer difficult questions, the Minister is not there. If we look at the 100 bypass program, it's so strange that for the next three years almost nothing happens, and the explosion occurs before the next election. etc., etc., etc. Minister! I was surprised to hear that line 190 from Bielsko-Biała to Cieszyn Ministry of Law and Justice, the PiS government considers it a low priority. We will ask our fellow Members why they are so inept at explaining it, if the government thinks so. But I would like to ask you to tell us about the road S1 from Bielska to Mysłowice... Thank you very much, sir. ...come on, the Beskid integration road, the bypass of the Hungarian Mountains... Thank you very much. Let's respect our colleagues. ...these are the things we're interested in today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u167	Thank you. Excuse me, I'll cut you short. I'd like everyone to ask a question. Mr Jerzy Polakzek. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, a brief appeal, especially to this part of the opposition, which in an extremely inept way shows here also some notes with inscriptions, so that you can first agree with each other and with your presidential candidate Mr Rafał Trzaskowski on the liquidation of investments, which are in the strategy of the Polish state for many years to come. All the cities have been deprived of funding, the voivodship cities. I'll remind you that you haven't picked up your signatures yet, and you're already announcing the liquidation of 1,600 railway lines under the CPK... European money. ... CPK, Vistula Mill, etc., etc. Calm down, please. Second line. The Minister did not say this, and it is worth noting: there is a clear declaration by the government for the market, including contractors, that the government will not save on infrastructure investments. And this should be the time of crisis, difficult for the economy, for social life. Thirdly, I would also like to refer to a specific example and I would like to ask the Minister to respond to the state of preparation for the construction of the future section of the S11 road in the Silesian Voivodeship, 54 km. Some Members here mentioned different (the bell) to say, places in the country... Thank you very much, sir. ...but it is worth noting that it is part of a several hundred-mile road completely in design. Thank you very much. So the request for a schedule of implementation, so that this section of Silesia, its construction was launched during the current term of office... [[Applause]] Time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u169	Thank you very much. Please observe the time. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. Mr Marek Polak is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u170	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm sure you're the masters of the program. You guys are doing great, and that's what you have to say. You start in five years and then you finish in 20. This is the program you're running. Worse with these projects. I thought today's discussion would be about what the Government of Law and Justice managed to achieve under these programmes. Of course, you open up new ones, it always happens before the election. And that's what happens in the case of the Hawk-Zdroj. There were promises that something would be done, there were promises that the investment would be carried out, that the town of Hawk would be connected with Katowice, for it would go much further. Minister Horała has arrived, who said that the Hawks will be included in a thread of high-speed rail, all the way to the central station and beyond. Minister, I think you've been a little busy with these programs. I wanted to ask: From what end of the programme will the investment for the Hawk be carried out under the scheme - or under this high-speed scheme with cross-border connections, or under the "Hawk+" programme? Because the state and in one, and in the other program, you put this investment. It is really hard to read today where and for what money this investment will be made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. Propaganda masters failing... Thank you very much, sir. ...with the implementation of the investment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u171	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. Mr Marek Owa is preparing. Mr Polek first. Also remotely. Remotely? Then we'll wait for the call. Thank you, we have a call. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u172	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The day before yesterday, PKP PLK started to recruit applications from local authorities to the railway "Programme for supplementing the local and regional infrastructure of the Railway+, for which PLN 6.5 billion is to be allocated by 2028. It is a very good program, which gives the opportunity not only to revitalize existing and decommissioned infrastructure, but also opens the way to building new rail links, especially in small, excluded transport towns. I think that the development of local railway infrastructure will make it much easier for the inhabitants of these towns to access large-scale academic centres, large industrial zones, thus contributing to sustainable development, as well as to develop skills, talents and interests. In short, they will be broadened by both mental, intellectual and economic horizons. So I wanted to ask the Minister how much interest the local government has in this program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u173	Thank you very much, sir. There you go, Mr Marek Owa. Mr Richard Bartosik is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I was convinced that Mrs. Bartus, when he asked questions about this information, would ask a dramatic question: Why aren't you building a trial girl? I was convinced that the same question would be asked by Mr Mularczyk. But it's the local governments I'd ask, your local governments. In return, I heard a great thank you for your work at the courtroom. All you did at the courthouse was move the construction of this investment to 2028. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] Don't yell, sir. Take it easy. Why don't you people like it so much? I ask: Why do you do this to the inhabitants of the Court of Justice? I ask: Why aren't you building the expressway S52 Bielsko-Biała - Głogoczów? You've trapped this road on the backup list, and you're not going to build it. And yet everything was supposed to change in 2015. That's what you tell people, you bullshit people, you tell them about the bypasses to be built after 2025. It's changing. They'll be built on the condition that you leave. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u175	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice. Mr Frysztak is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u176	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, ladies and gentlemen, you have managed to eliminate thousands of kilometers of railway lines, and you have succeeded. [[Applause]] That is why I would like to thank you very much for the programme "Rail+" which was announced a few months ago, and a few days ago a call for this programme was announced. I am glad that such towns as Turk in Wielkopolska, almost 30 thousand, will have the opportunity to participate in this program. Therefore, I wanted to ask how many Poles were excluded from railway transport through the actions of the PO-PSL government. I also wanted to ask what the government is planning to do in order to enable the Marshal's offices, the Sejm of voivodship, to convince them to participate in the program, because there are measures that can provide 15% the contribution of self-governments. As we know, municipalities and powiats will be difficult, and many marshal offices think only of large metropolitan areas, so I would like you ministers to urge the marshal offices to participate in this programme. I hope that such towns as Turk in Wielkopolska (Dawn) will be able to benefit from this program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska will be prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! First of all, I'm going to apologize to you guys in absentia because I'm going to take care of you guys. Why? Because you can't handle everything. It's not like you guys couldn't handle it, you just can't handle it every day. Specific examples: you are best at telling stories, implementing further projects and all must have Today your minister says you're gonna be making groceries plus. Congratulations, but first finish what you started because you didn't finish anything. What do you want with vegetables? First of all, you promised the Pawns the construction or renovation of two stations at the turn of the first and second quarter. You still haven't announced it. The vegetable salesmen bother you? You promised that you would build or renovate the railway line of Radom - Kraków relations. The tender has still not been announced, and you promise new stops on this line. When it comes to railway line No 8 of Radom - Warsaw relations, which is so important for the airport in Radom, I will remind you: Already President Merchel says there will be a delay. You're out of time. You guys can't handle everything. On the construction of this railway line the wind hula, wind hula, literally, no crews. When it comes to what's best for you, it's about promises, for example. A promise to build an S12. That's where you're trying to do your job. It's a lot of fuss. It is your Member - Andrzej Czestowniak who has been head of the team for several years. Construction of S12. What did he do during that time? He didn't do anything at the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You said at the last team meeting that the option would be indicated in June. Mr President, you are also on this team. Thank you very much. There's no option. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u179	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice. Mr Artur Łącki is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, there is a programme of railway investments 2016.2023, under which nearly 200 modernisation projects are carried out. Unfortunately, there was no railway station in Szczecin on this list. Why didn't he find out? Because the mayor of the Civic Platform at the time said that the perspective of 2023 was too far away and that he would do so from self-government, he would not try to get the station to be on this list. Of course, the mayor's term of office is over. Today is the year 2020 and the station is unfinished. First question. Is there any chance that after 2023 a similar program would be implemented and that the Szczecin railway station would then be on the list? Second thing. A certain feature of the Civic Platform's government was that you were wrapping up the county-dominant Poland. You've been shutting down bus connections, rail connections. There is a question to the government, to the ministers: What is the situation of the residents today, the citizens of Poland, in terms of access... Even worse. Yeah, because local governments are responsible. ...for rail transport? Do you have that information? What measures do you take to reduce the exclusion of Polish citizens from communication? With regard to those charges here, one thing. Your promises, 2015. Wish concert. The inclusion in the programme of construction of investment roads for almost PLN 200 billion (Dzwonek), of which only PLN 100 billion was secured. Thank you very much, Member. It was missing... And that's your effectiveness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u181	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. Mr Mariusz Trepka is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Mrs PiS! The station in Koszalin was on this list, and Mr Chezernaker and Mr Hoc personally promised to renovate their constituents. What's wrong with the station in Koszalin, Minister? As he was scaring, he's still scaring. On this list was the station in my county town, in Gryfice, where, Minister, in order for a disabled person to enter the train, he must call the driver, and then he stops the train 200 m in front of the train station, because there is an old cargo ramp, and there is a person in a wheelchair who can enter this train. This is your availability plus. And he's still coming in. This is the program plus. On this list, regarding railway tracks, were also to be revised, remade railway tracks from Goleniów to Kołobrzeg as a new route, alternative to the route Szczecin - Gdańsk. There isn't, Minister. There's nothing. You just can't handle it, unfortunately. I'm gonna ask you one thing. Did the Minister ever take a map of Poland and look where Szczecin and Goleniów Airport are? I do. This is the only airport that operates north-western Poland, the only airport that operates 3 million inhabitants, is still only Berlin. This is an airport where you have 42%. shares, which means you're a majority shareholder. Minister, since 2003 local governments of the Szczecin Voivodeship and the city of Szczecin have financed this port and will finance the amount (Dzwonek) of over PLN 100 million. You didn't put a penny in it. Time's up, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Please answer in writing for me. I demand information about your plans for the port of Szczecin Goleniów, the airport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice. Mr Andrzej Szewiński is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u184	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! You didn't make it. It's a little late, buddy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] What the opposition says we couldn't make it, I'll deny it a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen! Coming from Częstochowa to Warsaw yesterday - I am a Member of Częstochowa land - I saw work going on just on the A1 motorway, from Czestochowa to Tuszyna. And the example that we managed to do is to put Częstochowa's ring road ahead of schedule. [[Applause]] Yes, Minister, isn't it? Before what date? Six o'clock. Before six o'clock. Before the first. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government of Law and Justice for the Self-Government Road Fund, which in your day... Schletinski. ...was much smaller and was called a sketch artist. At the moment, we have a 10-fold greater Self-Government Road Fund. You've come up with a name, you're doing the best you can. My question is concrete: Are these sections of the A1 motorway that are being built at risk or not? I would also like to thank you for modernising the Częstochowa - Zawiercie railway line. How is cooperation with the local government on the construction of the Mouse-Nowa Wieś viaduct? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u185	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. Mr Andrzej Gawron is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'll also refer to the ring road that my previous speaker mentioned. That's what we thought. Until a few months ago, when I was Vice President of Częstochowa, I heard... You didn't build the overpass. I'll get to that, too. ...the fact that the ring road will have a zero rate on the charges. This is important because it depends on whether transit vehicles will pass through Częstochowa or not. It's also important to the residents. Therefore, my question is: Will the zero rate be maintained? Minister! Once again, I call for funds to be secured for the so-called. uncollised two-level communication node Bugajska, or Częstochowa section DK1 - DK46... Could've been... ...to clear the north-south transit corridor. I hope that there will be secure resources for this node, because also many Members who are here often go skiing or the other way to the sea. To get the masks. Unfortunately, at Częstochowa you must wait here. I hope that these promises will be kept and that you will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u187	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron. Mrs Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! At first, I see that the Minister makes some notes from time to time. I would also ask you to note the S11 issue, because this is probably an important route that connects Upper Silesia with Pomerania. I'd ask you to remember that. Just near this route lies the small town of Lisowice, with a total of 1 000. residents. This village is separated by a national road DK46. These residents have very difficult conditions. Like I said, it's a small town, 1,000. inhabitants, but for such places it is worth to make road investments. I'd like to know if safety will be improved. It's about what the Chief is trying to do to improve security. As regards today's discussion, I would like to address the opposition Members, particularly Members of the Civic Platform. This message of the day that came to you today with a text, unfortunately, will probably be ineffective. You can repeat it 1,000 times, 100 times here, 1100 times, and these investments, especially from the local road fund, which were made in small municipalities during our term of office, will cover this message because in municipalities such as Boron, Kochanowice, Lublin and Wozniki people see that roads are built. The conditions under which these roads may have been formed have been changed. People even waited a dozen years for these roads to be built right now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Mr Adam Sněžek, Law and Justice, is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You promised the people of Janów Lubelski the bypass, which they have been waiting for long, but already the plans themselves, and this stage is now, raises many doubts and dissatisfaction. The proposed solutions are four options. The first two concern the bypass from the north side of Janów Lubelski, the third and fourth - from the south side, but the first and second option is pushed to implement, the option that divides the village of Biała First, White Second, White Pupichowna at the expense of demolition of houses, demolition of farms, because this is what you planned. The people you promised the ring road are already protesting today. 700 farms signed a protest to the General Directorate of Roads and Motorways, as well as to the Janów City Office, from which people will be cut off by the way you promised them, because you promise and plan for nothing. People didn't wait years for Janow's bypass to rob their homes today. Another thing. The border of Nałęczów, the spa village - was thrown out. That's another line. All voivodship cities, 16 voivodship cities have been deprived of road-based financing from road construction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why, Minister? Because you're not in charge? Thank you very much. Scandal. You couldn't make it, and you couldn't. Thank you, Member. You're propagandizing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u191	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Blue? The red color would be better. I do not wish to hear from the Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Adam Sněžek, join us. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In mid-May the tender for the design and construction of the next section of the express road S19 Rzeszów - Babica was decided. In the construction there are sections of this road on the route Lublin - Rzeszów, which will be completed at the turn of the years 2021 to 2022. Then Rzeszów will get the fastest communication connection with Warsaw via Lublin. By car you will be able to reach the capital within 2.5 hours. Work is underway in the General Directorate of Roads and Motorways on the next sections of the S19 road from Rzeszow to the state border behind Slovakia in Barwinek. This section of the road is scheduled to be completed between 2025 and 2026. Via Carpatia will stimulate the development of Eastern Poland, allow it to level its chances with regard to the rest of the country and enable it to increase economic cooperation with the countries of the Tri-marine. I would like to obtain from the ministers the assurance that this investment is and will remain a priority for the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u193	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ireneus Raś, the Civic Coalition. Mr Waldemar Andzel is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister Grabarczyk, my colleagues here presented such a slogan: you couldn't do it. What I'm saying is that you guys aren't doing it -- I'm going to modify this password a little bit -- and I think this is a very important example of a communication connection, which is the S7 road. In fact, all these episodes that work today are the result of our government's work. As for those fragments of the roads you opened, you only opened what was built by us. I want to draw attention to why this is so. You have ruled for 6 years, and according to your plan, the decision on ZRID for one of the sections - this construction is divided into four sections - between Kielce and Kraków, Miechów - Szczepanowice, is only on March 2021. So what are we talking about? The course of Krakow's investment lies. You do not know what to do with the Italian company Salini, which has already withdrawn from all buildings in Poland and remains in some negotiations. Why? It's all gonna be... These are key episodes and it's all down. And I want to say one more thing. Mrs Bartus, who is now leaving, said that the local government cannot do it. Since you took the profits from local governments last year, and now we're still dealing with a huge crisis that affects local governments and is not compensated for, how are they supposed to cope? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're cutting these investments. And you guys are gonna cut that investment. We'll ask you how you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u195	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Infrastructure investment is a priority for the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you for another 100 bypasses to rise. Thank you especially for the bypasses of Poręba and Zawiercie. On 14 May 2020, the National Roads and Motorways Directorate signed an agreement for the first section of the S1 Mysłowice - Bielsko-Biała expressway. The task is divided into stages. First knot: Cost - Auschwitz, second: Auschwitz - Dankowice and third: Dankowice - Suchy Potok. This road will follow a new trail. The S1 route will be 135 km long. In order for the investment to be complete, it is necessary to build the second road of the S1 road on the section of the airport - Podwarpie with a length of 9.5 km, to rebuild the road to the expressway of the existing national road No. 1 from Podwarpia to Dąbrowa Górnicza and to construct the bypass of Hungary Górka. I would like to be informed about the investment of the airport - Podwarpie, i.e. the construction of the second road and the reconstruction of the national road No. 1 from Podwarpia to Dąbrowa Górnicza. At what stage are both investments? What is the estimated cost of the investments? When the end of the abovementioned period is planned. What's the problem? Once again, I thank the Government of Law and Justice for the infrastructure investments that are being carried out in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. Mr Lasek is preparing to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u198	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Despite many differences between us, I always support the government's efforts to develop public transport. About 14 million people in Poland do not have access to collective communication. It is a drama of especially smaller towns whose inhabitants have no way of getting to school, to work, to a doctor. The Rail+ programme was a great opportunity to change this state of affairs. It turns out that the thousands of kilometres of railway lines promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki will not rise, or - I'm sorry - will rise, but only on paper. I'm very sorry, but you didn't make it. Because of the deformity of education, the fight against pandemics, inflation and the increasing costs of building railway lines, local government budgets are in a dramatic situation. How does the government intend to help those self-governments who cannot afford a 15% own contribution to the rail+ programme? What are you going to do to make this program not just a pretext for Andrzej Duda's theatrical photo shoot at the station in Końskie? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u199	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u200	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The high-speed rail is mentioned here today, although, after explaining the government's representative, it should be called a slightly lower-speed rail. Construction of more than 1600 km of the line is planned. Unfortunately, the question of how many kilometres of new railway lines have been built in the last 4 years was answered by a government representative at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee: zero. It is therefore difficult to assess how you will deal with such an ambitious issue. But let's save the railroad for a minute. One of the new investments is the construction of the missing section of the S7 road between the junctions of Okęcie airport - Grójec. This route is to be crossed by the Voivodeship road No. 721. Unfortunately, despite the guarantee by the Marshal of the Mazowieckie voivodship for the construction of this road, the construction of this road is delayed. Why? For 2 years, the Directorate-General for Environment has not been able to consider appeals against environmental decisions and further deadlines have not been met. Without the 721 road, during the construction of the S7 road in Lesznowola municipality, there will be communication paralysis. Road investments cannot be blocked simply because they are implemented by a government-like government. This is a lack of respect for the inhabitants of the region. Despite this, Minister, that this blockade, of course, is not on the side of the office now under your authority (the bell), only the Ministry of Climate, I have a question of what has been done... Thank you very much. ...so it doesn't happen. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u201	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I now ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I repeat: Krakow was not built immediately. But without the cards, without the postcards, we can say: we did it, we can do it, and we can do it in the future. [[Applause]] What was behind your governments, it has been mentioned so many times, but it is enough to remind your representatives of the evaluation you gave at Owl's, I think that was the name of the restaurant. Stone poop. And so these governments, eight years of coalition can be assessed. It was during this period that highways were built and at the same time Polish subcontractors were bankrupt. The Minister and his family... Just don't steal. And they were so tragically bankrupt that some committed suicide by losing their fortune, their past achievements. It was in your time that the calls that were already mentioned here were removed. It was in your day that everything was sold out. For example, you can mention PKP Energy or PKL. It was in earlier times that Poland was being wound up, because it was not only during the time of the PO coalition - PSL, because the tracks in Poland had been liquidated before. You've eliminated the tracks, too. We can do this. You had time, right now it's my time. I would like to thank all those Members who took part in this debate. They took part in the debate we organised We - at our request is the current information, because we want... You want to account for what didn't work out. No, we want to... Basia, talk to us. To a woman, right? Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating a case that concerns all Poles, about a very important issue, about road infrastructure, but we are also debating in the era of pandemics, about Polish entrepreneurs, whether they will have more work, whether these investments that have been implemented so far are being carried out, whether they will be implemented. And I'm going to say something very important, but not revealing. Anything can be done if there's cooperation. [[Applause]] And that's why we're asking for this cooperation. The government of Law and Justice, for example through the Fund for Roads of Self-Government, this hand, or, more specifically, billions of zlotys, draws out to build Poland. And here it has been emphasized several times that some investments are not implemented, are not implemented on time. This is the truth and the defendant is kind of the best example. But I also have an example from my own area: road investments from the Roads Fund, which are not implemented, although money is already available - sometimes this money is being paid back, because these investments are to be carried out in the wrong, politically incorrect area according to some. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to thank you for all the investments that have been mentioned here. And as I said at the outset, I hope that the ministers will answer all these questions, calm local investors, calm contractors, ensure that they can be calm about their future, calm subcontractors who have actually had problems lately. But I also appeal to everyone: start thinking about Poles, not just about your happening that you have done here today, because such destruction, such actions of yours, will not lead to anything good. The Poles are sick of what you're doing, and they showed it to you in the next election. In 2015, you lost your power, and now you're just trying to get that power back with tricks. But the government of law and justice is a government on the plus side, not political schletinski or other names, but a government on the plus side, and Poland is on the plus side. We made it, and we're gonna make it. And I hope that Poland will continue to build. And that will only provide the government of law and justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u203	Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this discussion, very much alive. I am very pleased that investment and road, and rail, arouse such great interest among parliamentarians of all options. Thank you for the criticism, too. The true virtue of criticism is not afraid, and neither are we afraid of this criticism, but today there was no criticism on the part of the opposition, there were lies and insinuations. If Mr Cezary had sat two rows down, I would have gotten his nose in the face, so he lied. Mr President, this is how you lied about the S74 expressway, [[Applause]] I thought the knife in his pocket was opening. He was charming. After all, it was you who stopped the pre-project work, you stopped the work on the technical and environmental studies in 2012 regarding the section of the S74 expressway between Nisko and Opatów. This work was resumed during the rule of law and justice, when Minister Andrzej Adamczyk serves as Minister. [[Applause]] This is an example, one of the many lies that today was especially used by the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to compare the scale of road investments made during the first term of the Civic Platform and the first term of the rule of law and justice, I will give the figures. Numbers are something that should appeal to everyone. As regards high-speed roads, the first term of the Civic Platform - exactly 705 km of new high-speed roads. There's nothing left for you. As regards the first term of the rule of law and justice, 1162 km of high-speed roads. You opened everything up after us. No self-initiative. It all serves Polish drivers, it all serves the transport of people and things, it all serves Polish society. On the other hand, when it comes to the tasks that are currently being carried out, I spoke about this at the beginning of my speech, we now have a task worth PLN 53 billion. This is the S19 expressway, this is the S61 expressway, this is the expressway, the last episodes, the S5. These are the last episodes of S7, these are the last episodes of A1. We're gonna end with A1 fragmentation. This highway will soon serve as a link between the north-south axis of all Poles, all those who cross the Republic on this highway. [[Applause]] We are done with the longest staircase in Europe. The A18 motorway has already signed a contract, it is designed and will be built in a moment. There are financial limits on the S12 expressway from Lublin towards the eastern border. There's a financial limit for the S17 on Sand - Dorohusk. So that these roads, after they are prepared in pre-project work, will be realized. Finally, the Self-Government Road Fund - 4280 tasks only in 2019. [[Applause]] This year at least 2,300 tasks. It's something that's real, what's happening. This is something that works not only for the benefit of communication, but also for the benefit of the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u205	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Andrzej Bittel to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I join these thanks for this fantastic discussion. This huge interest in infrastructure is extremely pleased, but sometimes we have such interesting statements, e.g. You're here, Y. No, Minister Grabarczyk was looking for Y, and Minister Sławomir Nowak arrived. That's the first thing. How do the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL differ from those of the PiS? The fact that trains stopped driving to Lubin in 2012, in 2008 stopped taking trains, and we restored this communication. [[Applause]] There's a difference. Mrs Milczanowska mentioned the great success of the government in the negotiations at EU level. And we will be prepared for these challenges because we already have feasibility studies for investments worth PLN 40 billion. And how was 2015? There was no feasibility studies. There was a great offensive on the railways, two-stage tenders, no longer possible in this legal order at the moment, after the implementation of the EU Directive. Those studies had to be done for two years. What was the result? The result was that in 2016 and at the beginning of 2017 companies fought for orders. Therefore, such company Astaldi, which laid down on the tender procedure for the implementation of the investment. We've got a one-year delay on line seven. That is true, but we were able to quickly restore the implementation of the action there. It's going on. First of all, we were able to solve problems with paying out money for subcontractors. You couldn't do that. Trials from back then are still going on, and we were able to do that, and there's no problem. You may step out of the trial. What's the problem? The Member has such unbearable manners to say. But I accept it, I understand. I'll learn that one day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's one more thing I'd like to say, if your marshal will allow it, briefly. Line 190, mentioned, south. I ask Mr Koperski to read with understanding the answers to the interpolations. One Member said something, the other repeated something, and we have a classic manipulation. This is a regional line. The assessment of its importance belongs to the local government, to the managing authority. Period. That is the approach to this situation. [[Applause]] What about the S11? Why isn't there a ring road?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk is corrected and we will close this point. The Member wishes to apologize for his lies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr Matusiak missed the truth. We don't have a debate anymore. Your Marshal, you are to correct your statement. The railway line to the Hawk began to be liquidated in 1999. The last train left in 2001. In 2005, it was closed for good. In 2005, the Law and Justice began its first term of office. When it comes to Y, Minister, I have really tried and I am still trying for this railway line because it is enshrined in the current European TEN-T regulation. This is the result of the efforts of Minister Nowak, who arrived at this very place, that he is European law in force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to his efforts, he was included on Juncker's list. Thank you very much, sir. And the seventy-four from the node of Łódź in the south direction was not touched, it was not moved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u209	Thank you. I understand, Minister, that some of these questions that have not been answered will be answered in writing by Members. There was a request, Marshal. S11, please. Yeah, because there's a request. I heard the Members asked for it. Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on parliamentary draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (prints Nos 270 and 384). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! He is pleased to present the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, print No 270, the report is print No 384. Marshal of the Sejm on 11 March sent the draft resolution to the Rules Committee for first reading. The Commission at its meeting on 26 May this year. carried out the first reading and considered the project and asked the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. The attached draft resolution amends the Rules of Procedure which adapts the Rules of Procedure to the requirements of the Act of 30 August 2019 on the State Commission for the purpose of clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs in relation to a minor under 15 years of age. Since the Sejm appoints three members of this committee, and candidates can report not only to the Marshal of the Sejm, but also to a group of at least 35 Members, they can also be reported by social organisations, several of the entities mentioned in this Act, it was necessary to adapt the rules to the requirements of this Act. In addition, the committee received a request to adapt the scope of the committee's activities to the current law on the departments of state administration, because the Ministry of Climate was established and none of the committees of such department of administration has any action in its scope. So far it's been the Ministry of the Environment. The Commission has decided that this scope of action, i.e. climate and climate issues, should be transferred to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, which will be referred to as the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets following the adoption of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. The issue of the combination of climate and energy is primarily linked to the fact that there is a very large and important issue concerning renewable energy and the national environmental fund, which has huge resources to protect the environment, but also concerns issues related to renewable energy, which is why this decision was made. Therefore, once again, I ask the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution in accordance with the committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u211	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Smolinski... Kazimierz. ... Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Kazimierz Smolinski since birth. I am pleased, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to present the position of the club on the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm concerning the adaptation of these Rules to the Act on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexuality and customs towards a minor under 15 years of age, commonly referred to as "pedophile committee" in the public opinion. Of the seven members of this committee, three members are obliged to appoint the Sejm, and the procedure for the appointment of these members, their election and their dismissal is not reflected in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so this should be introduced. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, including the issue of changing the scope of the Sejm Committee on Energy and State Assets, which should also deal with climate issues. Some amendments had to be made during the committee's deliberations. The club modelled on the solutions that were applied in the Senate at the first submission, but we concluded in the end that, contrary to these solutions which were adopted in the Senate, these solutions need to be introduced in more detail in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in order to determine exactly how we appoint these members. Your Marshal of the Sejm must include in the Information System of the Sejm information that the organizations listed in the Act have the right to submit proposals for candidates for this committee within the time limit set by you. These proposals may be submitted to you by a marshal, may be submitted by a group of at least 35 Members and by organisations listed in the Act. Such requirements must be included in the Regulation. It was also necessary to determine how the oath would take place, because the oath of the members of the committee will take place before the Sejm. The proposed solution is fully supported by the Law and Justice Club. It was also necessary to present how they could be dismissed, because there is a procedure for appointing, but also the question of dismissing the members of the committee needs to be resolved. This is also included in the proposed solution, as well as the question of the election of the chairman of the committee. The Sejm must choose such a chairman. This solution is not in the bill either, so it must be in the regulations. It is proposed that this be presented to the Bureau of the Sejm, which includes representatives of all clubs and parliamentary circles. There was a lively discussion at the committee meeting on the election of the chairman, but the majority of committee members accepted this solution, which is in the submitted print No 384. There was also a lively discussion on this change in the scope of the committee's work. I know that there will be amendments in this respect, and I would also like to make a proposal on behalf of the club to not refer these amendments to the committee meeting, because there was a very lively discussion in committee, but to move on to the third reading already in the Chamber. Once again, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I support the whole submission from print No 384. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u214	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This draft resolution is one big, huge shame. And it is not ashamed of what it contains. It's not even embarrassing because of the upload you've made of such a nasty, disgusting climate at the last minute about this project. This project is a great shame because of who and when it is submitted. Let's get back to history. A year ago after the Sekielski Brothers' film, just don't tell anyone there were crocodiles tears, there was a fight in the chest. PiS assured us he'd do anything. There was a bill, we passed a bill, all of us. We're calling a committee. So? Nothing. Marshal Kuchciński does nothing, Marshal Witek does nothing. And today, Marshal Witek is hiding behind a group of Members, which is represented by a man from special tasks, Mr Marek Suski, who, by the way, seems to have failed - is not in today's debate. That's the problem. on this project, that since September, when the law was in force, you have done absolutely nothing about the appointment of this committee. But in terms of pedophilia, yes, you did. After all, during this year we have learned that the Ministry of Justice, led by Minister Ziobra, is writing a letter to the prosecutors under Minister Ziobra to specially treat pedophiles in the caskets. The same ministry later writes instructions: cases which district and district prosecutors are leading against paedophiles in cassocks should be sent immediately to the Public Prosecutor's Office to be dealt with here in Warsaw under the supervision of Minister Ziobra. That's what you did. A few weeks ago, with the COVID 3.0 Act on epidemics and the economy, the crisis in the economy, you made a contribution that makes practically everyone can be a member of this committee. After all, it is very characteristic that you have made such a provision that a member of this commission may be someone who has been awarded a medal or an award, and these awards are exchanged. For years of service, blameless - that's enough to take care of pedophilia? For fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan? With all due respect to our soldiers, the real heroes... What is it? What are you doing with that? We're clearing this up. You don't explain. You sweep under the rug. All this shows you're sweeping under the rug. Mr Suski is not here today because he deserted, but on the committee he said that we cared about chasing only paedophiles in the caskets. And you hear and do nothing. No, we want to pursue everyone, we want every paedophile to be punished to protect Polish children. You listened in Toruń, on Radio Maryja and Television Trwam... You on TVN. ...and you can't hear the voice of true priests, you can't hear the voice of Pope Francis, you can't hear the voice of the Primate of Poles. Moreover, you do not even hear the voices of priests from the Diocese of Kalisz who refused to support Bishop Janiak, the hero of the second film of the Sekielski brothers. Cut yourselves off from the Bay of Art. That's sweeping under the rug. This is the year of inaction on the one hand, and on the other hand Minister Ziobro is doing things to cover all these cases under the rug. You didn't do anything. For a year because of you, Polish children suffered through the PiS. What have you done for eight years? Marshal, I'm making two amendments. Polanski doesn't, because he's allowed more. Your Marshal, if I have a second, I would like to make a proposal against it, because the issue of one of the amendments concerning this climate shift to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury has not been resolved as in this amendment. We want a new climate committee to be set up here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It cannot be that climate issues are addressed by the same people who are responsible for energy and who care so much that as much coal as possible in Polish power plants is burned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You might want to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this project shows how the Law and Justice work, how the government works, how the parliament works. The truth is that on 30 August 2019 the High Sejm decided to adopt a bill on this committee. August ub.r. Nothing has happened since then. You can say that today you are reacting to what is happening in the media, to another film by the Sekielski brothers, and suddenly you are posting the subject of a change to the rules and, in short, the implementation of this law, which this majority of the Sejm adopted in August Ub. R. What have you been doing all this time? Notice what's going on here in this room at all. We are discussing projects of laws, which, for example. introduce legislation and regulations of the European Union of 2009, as was the case yesterday on the Insurance Companies Act. You act on the principle of not doing anything so as not to implement what is included in these bill projects. This print number 270, I'll remind you, appeared on March 6th. I know you're about to say: indeed a pandemic, indeed a crisis, there were many more important things, many more important things, but at that time, I will remind you, several times we met here, in this room, and from 6 March to today, until 28 May, this project could be renegotiated calmly. This, of course, was not done and again this project is being processed after 2 months of laying in the freezer. What's going on in this project? Well, there is a matter of committee and, therefore, of extension as regards the Energy Commission and climate issues, but of course there is also the issue of the introduction of the provisions resulting from this law of 30 April. But what's going on now? There is, of course, a discussion, and here I would appeal for this, because the Left is very much concerned with explaining such matters, this is one of the fundamental points of our programme, and on this matter my draft law on the Left has also reported, so we will probably try, also with regard to this project, i.e.. For this bill, somehow rewrite it and persuade you to do so, dear PiS, so that you may help in this respect, so that you will no longer sweep it under the rug. But it is clear that, in these Rules of Procedure, you want to hold everything in your hands again, because the matter of the chairman of this committee is left to the Bureau of the Sejm. The question arises as to why only the Sejm Bureau should decide who will be chair of the committee. As far as the appeal provisions are concerned, there are already 35 Members who can, whether the appointment or the appeal of a member of the committee, 35 Members have an initiative, but already in the case of the President, you do not mention that 35 Members can also indicate a candidate for president. So there is a request: give the Sejm, also give the Members a chance when it comes to these issues. The next thing you know, it's a matter that, by the way, by the rules of procedure... And I immediately signal that the Left Club is about to make these amendments that we would like to make, namely, finally we want to stop with this very bad habit that Marshal Terlecki is coming out here, to this pulpit, and he says: Today I have this idea, we are blocking these comments and we are blocking the Senate amendments into two blocks, and we will vote for each other in two short votes. We want to change this and we also want to propose changes to the Rules of Procedure so that it is not possible to do this kind of thing so that the Senate amendments are considered at plenary meetings and are discussed, because it is very important that there is no manipulation here. That is why we are making these amendments and we are asking that we actually adopt the solutions that we are proposing and that this committee [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, it just started to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u217	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'll start with a quote. This is a quote from the Act, which was adopted almost a year ago, on the State Commission for the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. This quote, the preamble to the Act, reads: Following the good of those who, as children, suffered as a result of actions against sexual freedom and morality, bearing in mind their pain, feelings of loneliness and traumatic experiences, which also affect their adult life, taking into account the duty to make social satisfaction of the sense of justice, as an expression of the belief that no action directed against the sexual freedom and morality of children, despite the passing of years, cannot be protected by mystery or be forgotten - in order to protect the honor, rights and dignity of the victims, is the following. And there are still regulations on the appointment of a committee. Strong words, lofty words, empty words, so characteristic of you, for the Law and Justice, formation which has ruled Poland for five years. I remember you talking five years ago about the state being made of cardboard or a dictation, the state you built. And the practice of colliding with these lofty words indicates that you are building from the October. I use that word on purpose, because in the dictionary sense it speaks about something that is just something that is bad and low quality. And the best illustration of how October this country is is is not only the practice of the absence of this commission for 9 months since the adoption of the bill, but also the regrettable entry of one of your prominent people, Jack Kurski, who had the audacity to write on the Internet: Our pedophilia is better than theirs, because our film watched more than theirs. This is your attitude toward harm, the pain of injured children, and the trauma of adults who are disgustingly harmed in childhood, who must live with this injury until a time of premature death because of it. There was a saying in the Polish People's Republic: if you want to sweep the problem under the rug, set up a committee. You are the heirs. The PRL in this dimension. The second issue of the Rules of Procedure is more technical, but it is also politically serious. Namely, the issue is that climate policy issues, which, as we know, is directly related to environmental protection, to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and harmful substances into the air, the whole area of this issue, rather than addressing the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, are proposed to refer to a committee that has so far been called: the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, and now it is called: the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets. Is it because, for you, climate protection is still a function of industrial policy, and in particular of extraction, i.e. not even mining, but burning coal in Poland? In the plans for the development of mining in 2030, you plan to keep it at today's level, 30 t, and once again I would like to emphasise 20 t of these 30 is the coal imported mostly from Russia, but also from Mozambique and South America. Or is it because the environmental committee directs the opposition policy and the energy committee directs the coalition policy? You want to hide from the public, from the Polish citizens, from the so often invoked sovereign the true intentions of climate policy, even though 80% Poles, as the latest research indicates, demand a radical reduction in pollutant emissions, and every year tens of thousands of people lose their lives due to pollution, smog and air that cannot be breathed. We do not agree with this solution. Therefore, on behalf of the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I propose two amendments that eliminate this drop-in made at the last moment, in which climate issues, climate policy issues that should be associated with environmental protection, are addressed to the Committee on State Assets and Energy (Dzinek), i.e. the Committee on Industrial Policy and not Environmental Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u220	Thank you. Polish politicians have already given up saying reasonable things in order to pursue demagogy calculated on easy conquering temporarily bearable topics. Moreover, in the rhythm of the next media campaign, laws have already begun to be written. Legislation isn't a job for people with a press temper of some tabloid, it's a job for people who can coolly analyze data, have a cool view of problems and think 10, 20, 100 years ahead, not about a poll next week. So I regret to say that the Sejm is rather free of this type of people and that the legislation is being taken over by politicians rather than wise people, propagandaists, demagogues and not legislators, which results in a shaky, humorous mediocracy that we are experiencing. Such mediocreization causes the laws in the Seym to be adopted in the rhythm of the release of subsequent films on television. Last year, after the first film, we received a bill, now after two more films about pedophilia we recall it and we make changes to the rules that allow this law to be implemented. Who remembers, remembers. If cinematicism speaks to the rulers more than the facts, I'm really afraid of what's going to happen next, what law we're going to adopt, if for example. Another part of Star Wars will be released. I'd like to know what the numbers, the statistics, are causing us to set up a special inquisition to combat this particular type of crime. Each year we have e.g. more homicides than pedophilia cases, not to mention beatings, thefts, robberies, burglaries, misappropriations, but somehow we don't set up a high-level auto theft committee, a central homicide committee. If, according to the rulers, some type of crime is simply too poorly prosecuted, then it should be... In a normal country, the chief of police or other investigative services is instructed to pay greater attention to the type of crime, not to adopt a new law and to set up more committees. It's a law that's littering law, creating sandboxes for politicians who are going to beat the foam on these stools in someone else's misery, because commissioners aren't going to replace cops, they're not going to go into the field, they're not going to catch criminals, they're going to be making morals from behind desks. The perception of this problem is media-inflated just like... A good example of media perception and impact on politicians is the issue of this epidemic. Now I don't see one person in a mask anymore, so the number of people wearing a mask is inversely proportional to the number of people infected in society. This shows that media and subjective perception are more important to you than data. Because when there were a few infected, they were all looking at each other's hands, whether they had their masks on evenly. Now that we have tens of thousands of infected, there's not a single person in the mask here in the courtroom, from what I can see. One, two, three, four. Weak eyesight. So that's our mediocre. In addition, the biggest problem when it comes to juvenile delinquency is not pedophilia, but a child murder committed on unborn citizens of this country. If we sincerely want to protect our children from adult aggression, we would be here discussing changes to the law that would prevent unpunished abortion tourism. According to our law, a degenerate mother who gives her child to death is completely unpunished in this country, she is not being punished. Closing sight of murders and at the same time embezzling such extraordinary committees, tribunals for the fight against pedophilia, unfortunately meets all signs of hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u221	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u222	God bless you! That's right, it's a hypocrisy that the Confederation is trying not to divide and multiply. As a documentary director, I should be quite pleased that the release of a documentary film can prompt the High House to proceed, and in an urgent manner, because here the crowd, the attack, the fight against the supposed pandemic, and this change was directed by the bureau to a rather rapid path. However, I am not happy about this because it is the word: hypocrisy is the best diagnosis of this situation. If the High House really wanted to spend a ruthless fight against juvenile delinquency, it could have already done so. After all, you just had a pedophilia stop project here and in agreement - an agreement over divisions - you directed this project to the committee. You didn't want to proceed on this project. Because the Confederation will not find room in this committee, not even because of the lack of animation, the enthusiasm for chasing disgusting perverts, deviants, deviants, degenerates, just because the parity (the bell) that has been assigned to us is a round zero, we will abstain when it is time to vote on this project. We'll live.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'll ask one question. Then sign up. And now, please, the first is Mrs Monica Falej, the Left. Not the rapporteur? Excuse me? Not the draftsman of the committee? I'm sorry, but I think the questions first...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is dictated by the duty of the Sejm to appoint members and the chairman of the committee to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and morals against a minor under 15 years of age. I know that the problem of pedophilia is complex and mostly requires concern for the victim. On the other hand, I have the impression that in Poland it is mainly trying to protect the oppressors. I agree that pedophilia is not... On the other hand, I have the impression that we are primarily trying to protect the oppressors. I agree that pedophilia is not involved in any particular professional group. Whoever did this isn't important. It should be important to effectively counter the phenomenon, act itself and punish them and support victims. In this process, however, pathology occurs. The commission referred to, with the stubbornness of the maniac, still refers to people of the Church, such as Blaze Kmieciak, lawyer Ordo Iuris, or radical organization associated with the Catholic Church. This concerns you for several reasons. The radicality of this movement is known from the attempts to force the sick (The Bell) concept to take away women's right to self-determination, from attempts to mix in basic legal and medical terms related to the human being. The next problem that arises when the church-related people are appointed to this committee is the problem... Finish it, Member. Now, the last two sentences. It's about the judge's problem with his own case. It is well known that the Catholic Church is a protected institution when it comes to criminal proceedings against its members accused of pedophilia... Ad vocem. ...and the institution itself does nothing to effectively fight pedophilia. There is no consent to refer people to the committee who tolerate and protect pedophilia cases. How can we call on this commission the people who are on the side of the oppressors and not the victims? That's more than two sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u225	Thank you very much and please follow the time. Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been almost a year since the pedophilia commission. That's a long time. It turns out that you have to wait until a year for something more to happen than just movements faked in the form written on the knee of the bill on the pedophilia commission, a bill that was created only and only as a result of the release of the first film of the Sekielski brothers. A year has passed, followed by a second film by the Sekielski brothers and recently made by the Left a very good civic project about the pedophilia commission in the church. It's a project written by lawyers, constitutionalists, a project consulted, but above all a project that clearly and clearly speaks about the fact that victims' welfare is a priority and that committee members should be specialists. It's been a year. Behind us also manipulated in many aspects the film by Mr. Latkowski, but either way the victims in him were real. You've known about this case for over five years because it's been out in the open, and the perpetrators are still out there. It's been a year. Over 16,000. The victims of pedophilia are a lot, and instead of helping the victims of pedophilia (the bell), you focused on putting Christian fundamentalists on the committee. Of course, you are so afraid of the Church's settlement. Finish it, Member. Plus, in an anti-crisis shield, you're throwing up, and if the National Public Prosecutor's Office under Zbigniew Ziobra acted well, there would be no need for a special commission. I don't have any questions because I don't believe in your good intentions, and the victims are still waiting for justice and reparation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u227	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of the 38 million citizens and citizens, we are looking for only 7 people to the pedophilia committee. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure show that candidates are persons who received, among others. award or award, such as the Cross of Valor or the Medal for fighting against the PRL. However, those who received the Medal for the Long-Term Marriage were deleted from this catalogue. Such records are marked by the creation of a law for specific persons, which raises our significant concern. Why not include people with directional education and psychological experience and people who have very great therapeutic experience who work and worked with victims of paedophile acts?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u229	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u230	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I'd like to know why the subject of pedophilia was included in the anti-crisis specialist. Why an article was introduced in the third anti-covid shield. 44, according to which the catalogue of persons they may receive is changed, may they be in committee? So the people who get the award or the award may be on this committee, but for example. They lost that right to the people they have, didn't they? There is no catalog in this catalog, e.g. persons who should not, e.g. They've been punished. It would seem that sitting on this committee is a form of synecure for those rewarded by the current authority. And if we link it to the article. The 14th Act on the State Commission, which says that the members of the committee cannot be held liable for their (Ringing) activity within the scope of the function of the committee, turns out that it is really about: there will be big money, unclear responsibilities, no consequences... Thank you, Member. ...in other words, to live, not die in the State of PiS, of course for relatives and acquaintances of power... Thank you. ...and pedophile victims won't get anything out of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prior to the parliamentary elections, the PiS passed a bill on the appointment of this committee, a special committee. Are you against it? Before the presidential elections, we conclude by changing the rules. Thank God this election festival is over because I don't know what's going to happen in the third place, so maybe you could call it all off as suggested by the Confederation. Send the Senate bill and we're done. I want to say this: Law and Justice have brought law out of this building. The way we're dealing with these laws right now is unacceptable. This stuff, somebody said technical, it's not technical. An amendment is inserted into the bill that most people want, which is from a completely different parish and what else is involved. So we're gonna give you something, a little change, a little carrot, but we're gonna give you a stick, and now you guys worry about voting. I would like to say, "How can you (the bell), as in the Rules of Procedure Panel? Really, I've seen a lot of cleaning up here in this House, but I haven't seen one yet. And I hope... Your marshal, as a matter of fact, I'm obliging you, because you're not even the recipient of this... We need to call this committee, not talk. ...to bring this up to you at the next session of the Sejm Bureau. This can't be right. We cannot work this way, and I ask you very much that the Sejm and the Members begin to take it seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u233	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! The crime of pedophilia is one of the most disgusting crimes, one of the most disgusting crimes. This is best demonstrated by the way pedophiles are treated even in prison. We are all aware of the tragedy, the trauma that remains in the child, who is the victim of such an act. But you have a mouthful of clichés, and when it comes down to it, it turns out that the bill was passed eight, nine months ago, eight months ago it came into force, and only now you do anything to set up this committee. I know, you have among yourselves, even you had among yourselves people who justified paedophiles, like a priest from Tylawa, we remember Mr Peterowicz, now your judge at the Constitutional Court. Right! But if we look at it soberly, why haven't you done anything in eight months? Why did you show that you just needed a new film by the Sekielskis, gentlemen, the Sekielski brothers, so you could get the case started? You don't really want to do anything. You want to make appearances, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you are afraid of the Catholic Church, you are afraid of what the parish priest will say. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u235	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the ideal country, the committee we are talking about should not actually be set up. The state should deal with paedophile crimes, but it can't handle it. I am appalled, and Poles are increasingly, also the fact, dear country, how We make the law. Are we still a normal parliament? There are laws in 2 days, others should be created, should be created very quickly... We are no longer a normal parliament. ...then you spend a year wondering and creating a committee. And now the question to those responsible: How will this committee rise and we will, of course, support it, because every way to fight such crimes is important, we will support this project, or if it does rise, will it rise only to create another appearance? Will you continue to pretend to solve the problem and to mumble about it, or will you finally deal with solving one of the most appalling problems that upset all Poles and Poles? I appeal to you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want us to start working. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several months have passed since the appointment of the Ministry of Climate, a few months since the amendment of the Law on Departments, and here we have a drop in the regulations on the operation of the commission. And I do not mean too much about extending the powers of the Energy and Treasury Commission under the direction of Emperor Marek Suski, whose imperial ambitions are widely known. I'm more worried about the environmental committee, which was first cut off about water management and now about the climate. And let me remind you that there are waste in this section, according to the bill. The Commission, perhaps because it still has protection in its name, remained a pathetic fake, remained a fake like the Ministry of the Environment - for hunters and lumberjacks, because that's all there was left. This clearly shows a true attitude towards the environment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about looking through the prism of using only its resources. The Minister's views illustrate this. And, by the way, what did the minister - a member of the Council of Ministers - take money for a few months while waiting for the environmental minister's briefcase? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u239	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, there isn't a strong enough word in the dictionary for cultural people to determine in an appropriate way the crime of pedophilia. I wonder, however, what word to describe what the government of Law and Justice has done for a year. Nothing at all. Eight years, sir. The case was placed on the shelf and used in a disgraceful manner during the election period. She was left behind until another movie came along. That's enough! This cannot be defined in any word, which is also found in the dictionary of cultural people. You just can't. Plus, today's drop. You put a rule in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm that will make the chairman of the committee de facto choose the PIS. Who do you want to put there? Who? Kuchcinski. For a year you have given us all testimony that your only purpose is to massage, hide, dissolve, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to leave the victims alone, and those who were the perpetrators, make an example of keeping the public's eyes off them. Who do you want to put at the head of this committee? Kuchcinski. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Come here and tell the Poles who? Someone like Bishop Janiak? Who? [[Applause]] We'll see who comes forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You didn't want a pedophile registry that serves care... Keep them covered. You were defending Polanski. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u242	I think the place to speak is above all in the Seym Council, so I encourage you to do so. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! November 19th Ub. r. we tabled a draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to set up a permanent climate committee. Unfortunately, this project went into a disgusting seym freezer, despite our requests and appeals. Today, in turn, we see that in the case of another draft, a silent change has been pushed through during the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee to crowd climate issues into the Committee on Energy and State Assets. This extremely important and multifaceted subject, which covers both energy and agriculture, environmental protection, infrastructure and the economy, has been treated as a flower to the goat. That's why we're making the right amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here's my question to the applicants: Will you support our amendment on setting up a permanent climate committee, which will be a partner for discussions with the Ministry of Climate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u243	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u244	This is where we asked for the candidacy of the chairman of this committee. I think Marshal Kuchciński would be a great candidate. Then Brothers Rycisz and friends could be called as experts in this field. Question: "When will you start with the pedophilia project?" Will the formation of this committee in this action mode mark the opening of a new chapter and the transition to real action by prosecutors, police, but also by the parliament, which should take out the pedophilia stop project from this de facto freezer and direct it to a normal legislative path? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be experts here who have already been convicted of worship and faith, and those who will not hesitate to point out a relationship that is easy to demonstrate by means of a statistical over-representation of people who are homosexual to other perverts in a group called paedophiles? Can we hope that such data will be presented in this committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u245	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a fundamental question about the pedophilia committee that is being discussed today, which will only be set up. Tell me, when will her work begin? I hope it's not just a cover. It should happen immediately. You've all seen the faces of those suffering men today, the broken resumes and the ripped psyche, and there's probably a lot more to the victims. I therefore urgently ask for a timetable for the work of the committee, the appointment of its membership and the precise timetable for its work. I hope that it will not, like every committee set up in this House, be paid dearly by taxpayers. I also hope that social pressure, which is enormous today, will lead to this (the bell) that the guilty will finally be punished and justice will be met.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u247	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that the majority of this debate unfortunately does not focus on the subject of the submission, or amendment of the Rules of Procedure, but on the law which has already been adopted by the Sejm and is not the subject of today's proceedings. But since there were so many questions of all kinds and diwags around it, I would also like to refer to it. Unfortunately, the left part of the room has a mouth full of clichés, but as we have put forward a solution that undoubtedly helps in the fight against pedophilia, the record of pedophiles, you were against it. You didn't vote for it. And all you keep saying is eight months, eight months. It's true. And I say eight years. What has been done in the fight against pedophilia for eight years? Nothing. Pedophile registry? You were against the state. Then you spread false information about the fact that priests are not included in this register. That's not true. Right. From the beginning, this register has been open and covers everyone. Mr... Of course. That's the point. just understanding and reading with understanding of the law, each, and this fundamental one, in the form of a constitution that does not need to be waved, only must be applied, and any other law. This law is an obligation for us to elect three representatives, not only representatives of the Sejm, because there will be candidates submitted by the Supreme Bar Council, the Supreme Council of Legal Counsels and all other non-governmental organisations that deal with the protection of children's rights or the protection of victims. Any one of these organizations can make an offer on their candidate. To answer the question, when will this happen, I can say immediately. That's what the rules are for. Ladies and gentlemen, your marshal has said whether or not you, Marshal Terlecki, said this week. Unfortunately, we will not be able to do this this week because today, I hope, today, we will vote on this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and when it is announced, when it comes into force, immediately, the next day, your marshal must announce in the Public Information Bulletin that the organisations entitled by this law may submit candidates, and set a deadline for submitting these candidates. And any organisation, state of Members, also, under the law, we do not decide this today, a group of at least 35 Members may also apply. Report. Absolutely. So there will certainly be a lot of candidates and not a PiS, not one club, but the House in grumio will decide to appoint these three candidates. I am convinced that they will be people who are well prepared, about the right competences, people who will want to fight the pedophilia that I think we all judge clearly in this Chamber - as some have said here, lack of words to evaluate these crimes. We have tightened the pedophilia rules, we are waiting for them to enter into force. So we don't need to be persuaded that this ugly crime must be prosecuted. The Commission is obviously not the ideal solution. Above all, the committee is to support the state's authorities, the prosecutor's office. And there are no sacred cows in this area. Whether it's a ecclesiastical environment, whether it's a politician's environment, whether it's a teacher's environment, no matter what, everyone's treated the same way. There are no sacred cows in this area. I'm just surprised at one thing: you guys are so sensitive to movies about the environment of priests, but already on movies about another environment it's kind of... Today even these words have been said that in this film it is already manipulation that there are manipulations in this area. It's like it's a sacred environment and it can't be moved. And the statistics are different. It's in other environments that most paedophile crimes are. This is not about statistics, because every crime is as dramatic as thousands of others. And all these crimes will be fought, and I am convinced of it in the same way. The Commission is to help state authorities. We'll call her immediately. That's the point. Only how much time your marshal will give these organizations to apply. I don't think it's gonna be a long time. The organizations are prepared to submit these nominations, so now we're waiting. As for the climate, ladies and gentlemen, you have mouths full of clichés as well. Please recall 2015 the European Commission and its evaluation of the actions of the previous 8 years (The Bell) coalition. The worst results in Poland in terms of environmental protection. You're full of shit. Nothing has been done in the area of single-family homes. Please read... Thank you very much, sir. ...this report from the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u249	Thank you very much, sir. Let me remind you that you were the committee's rapporteur. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made for a third reading after delivery of the table of amendments. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on childcare under the age of 3 in 2018 (Print No 83) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (Print No 223). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Barbara Socha, to present a report to the committee. Your marshal, the committee report, I have... Excuse me. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present her position to the committee. But it says here...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u250	Thank you very much, Marshal. Excuse me, just a minute, 'cause I have to... Excuse me, ma'am, but the minister has to present this first, and then you. Good. And where is the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u251	Are you the Minister? Excuse me, my fellow Member, but that's the order. It's okay. Excuse me, Minister, for the mess.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u252	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Babysitting up to the age of 3 is one of the most important directions of government action when it comes to pro-family policy. The "Maluch+" programme is an important element in addition to other leading programs of the United Right Government. At the moment we are working on a demographic strategy and I can say that after six months of work we are very up-to-date with all scientific research on the impact of various factors on fertility. In all of these studies, I can tell you, there is an element of efficient, extensive and good quality care for children up to the age of 3. The "Maluch+' law is precisely the implementation of such a policy. A number of changes have been introduced in 2018, which have improved, reduced the costs of this care and made it very dynamic. One of the fundamental changes that were already in force in 2018 was the possibility for private parties to set up crèches, not only by local government units. This has greatly affected the dynamics of the number of places. Of course, a number of other changes have also been made that have affected the improvement of this activity, such as the absence of a requirement to have at least two rooms in the nursery, such as a maximum number of places, such as the corresponding hours of daycare. We have also raised standards for feeding children. As I mentioned, there was an extended list of entities that could create and run daycare, and there were a number of other changes. I think that one of the most important was the increased expenditure on such investments and the introduction of various modules, according to which, in particular, municipalities or areas where there have been no such establishments, could benefit from privileged forms of support for the creation of crèches, resulting in a significant increase in the number of municipalities where these crèches appear, a growing number of places. At the end of 2018, the so-called level. The incidence was 24%. This is a very large increase over the past few years. Of course, the programme will continue to be developed. We are working on further changes that will make even more day care. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to one aspect, I think, important at a time when we are talking about childcare up to the age of 3. Nurses are the last preferred way for Polish families to care. In my opinion, we're getting closer to... I think that in the near future we are able to provide a number of places in daycare which will be satisfactory and sufficient. I think that, especially when the debate begins, I hope for such a debate on the demographic strategy, there will be an opportunity to talk about developing other forms of childcare, as these other forms of care are more preferred by parents in Poland. I use here not my beliefs, but statistical data and research conducted by various individuals. We have CBOS research on this subject from the latest ones. Further research, prepared precisely for the specific operationalisation of the demographic strategy, is currently underway and I think it will be completed by the end of the year. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u253	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Borowiak, please. Member, I apologize. I haven't sat down yet, and I'm already confused about sitting down. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u254	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present a report on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2018, print No 83. The committee's report is contained in print No 223. At its meeting on 11 February 2020, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy examined the document submitted. A discussion was held between the Members asking the questions and answering them. As a result, 17 Members voted in favour of the report, against - 1 abstained. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs requests the High Sejm to adopt a report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u255	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mrs Teresa Wargocka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2018. The priority of the United Rights Government is to pursue policies aimed at supporting families who raise children. In addition to financial support for families in 500+ programmes, 300+, we place great importance on extending the scope of support in the form of institutional childcare organisations. The forms of this care are very diverse. And so from a wide range of proposals we have nursery, children's clubs, daycare or hiring nannies. In the discussion about the care and upbringing of the youngest children, we have different views. Left-liberal environments promote a model of full institutional care, and extremely right-wing environments convince of the harm to children's development by entrusting care to people other than family members. Law and Justice stand in the position of absolute respect for the autonomy of the family. We want support for parents up to the age of 3 to be adequate to the expectations of their parents and not to be a barrier to the decision to accept their offspring. We are a society in which family values are placed at the highest place, at the same time the need for self-realization, professional activity, financial independence is a feature of attitudes shared by many women. Research shows that young spouses expect public authority to create the best possible solutions to work with motherhood. Over the past few years, we have repeatedly given examples of respect for the will of parents. We took the parents' side on a 6-year-old school obligation introduced by the Platform and PSL. Today, 7-year-olds have this obligation, and parents have the right to choose to send a 6-year-old child to school. We have abolished the obligation of preschool education for 5-year-olds. Here, too, parents can choose and are willing to choose this education. But the choice is the most important. Law and Justice respect family autonomy, while listening to parents'expectations. The Babysitting Act up to 3 years is a good law. The political divisions adopted in 2011 are gradually implemented through the government's "Milch" programmes and now "Milch+" programmes. This has allowed the development of childcare areas to be more dynamic up to the age of 3. The threefold increase in funding for the programme, up to 450 million, the extension of the range of entities that can benefit from this programme through the private sector, the financing of the costs of living in daycare - these are changes that in 2018 have contributed positively to achieving good results and increasing the number of places in daycare by around 19%. The report submitted shows that the organisation of childcare up to the age of 3 is largely carried out by private entities and not by local authorities. In 2018, local authorities created 760 daycare centers, representing 24% and only 46 children's clubs, which accounts for 7% all the clubs created. 62% Local authorities do not have any custody of children under the age of 3. These figures show a large discrepancy between the country's pro-family policy and the performance of its own tasks by local authorities. As I mentioned at the outset, the number of childcare places under the age of 3 should be correlated with the social needs of parents in the area - neither higher nor lower. It is up to the local government to diagnose these needs and adequately meet them, using government support, such as the "Milch+" programme. According to data from the family ministry, which collected information on the number of people waiting on reserve lists for places in childcare facilities, this demand is still high and at the end of 2018 it amounted to more than 70,000. Places. Thus, the task of helping parents to care for children up to the age of 3 is a continuous task. Local authorities are expected to be more interested in conducting pro-family policies at the level of the municipality. The Law and Justice Club will support all government proposals aimed at supporting families (the Bell) as expected. Law and Justice will vote in favour of the information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u257	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u258	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You said it was a choice. You must also choose how you understand pro-family policy: whether you are behind Poland being a social Poland or a social Poland. This is a collision of certain visions. This is the collision of the vision in which we give the fishing rod and the vision in which we give the fish, whether we bet on system solutions, or whether we bet on ad hoc solutions. This isn't social services. Yeah, it's a 500+ program, it's an important program, but it's a program that's not a system pro-family solution. First of all, he does not meet the demographic assumption, because the fact that these funds were passed on did not in any way affect the increase in fertility in Poland. What do you mean, no? All you have to do is want. Money transfers aren't system support either. The programme on which we are listening to the report today is not your system either, but the system that has been introduced by the rule of law... Laws and Justice, yes. ... Civic and PSL platforms. You added the word "plus." This country continues, as I commend, but not in a perfect way. 300 million. Not in a perfect way, precisely because you changed those standards that were introduced by PO and PSL. You changed them in such a way that your parents protested, your employees protested. That's not true! This is the kind of information you can easily provide: that there are more places in the facilities. But there are more because you've changed the criteria, now there can just be more children in these rooms. So it seems that there are not much more facilities, but more children can be admitted to these facilities. There are more facilities. When the Civic Platform and the PSL began to rule, Law and Justice left 373 daycare centers. At the end of the PO and PSL governments there were more than 7 times more. This made it possible to reconcile professional responsibilities with a very important family life. We've also introduced funding for the nannies, and then the state cut it by half. I wonder what you're looking at on this show as a plus. Because in some ways here, the state also assigns itself the merit of local governments. It is the Polish local governments that carry out this continuous function and it is the local authorities that do it in the best way. And for these actions, the local authorities should be thanked, especially since we celebrated the 30th anniversary yesterday. Polish self-government. I was the councilwoman of Warsaw and Warsaw for almost 9 years is the best example that such a pro-family policy can be implemented well, wisely and effectively. How many places are missing in Warsaw? 13,000. Places... Missing? ...if you ask, I'll answer you right away, babysitting until 3 years old. Last year, 5252 new places were created. Lies. I've got the data. Warsaw spends more on this than government on a national scale. $ 344 million for pro-family policy. What is this in a set of 2 billion on TVP? What's this? 160 million you give grants to the brother of Minister Szumowski, 214 million gets Radio Maryja. You support families, but families of ministers and families of Radio Maryja, not families who really need this help. Then go out and ask the Poles. But what's going on... Because we can talk about bigger cities, I happen to have such experience in Warsaw, where the president, city management, officials are perfectly able to handle these tasks, but what about the poorer, smaller communities? These grants, which you provide to local authorities, cover 10 and 20% of the costs of construction and maintenance of daycare facilities. That's not true! Yeah, that's right, ma'am... Even 80%. ...because we're in contact with local governments. That is the difference between us and the state, that we treat these self-governments in partnership. We, through dialogue, work out with the inhabitants the solutions they want. We study daycare services, clubs, etc. and we meet the expectations of our parents so that they are more flexible and that parents can live with themselves. So the state should give more resources to local governments and move away from those bad rules that allow more and more children to be pushed into [[♪ The bell ♪]] Smaller and smaller rooms. And really take care of Polish families, not their families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u259	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Daria Gosek-Piołek from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing how you are fulfilling your duty to provide care for families, children up to the age of 3. We are discussing this in relation to 2018, because we still do not have a report for 2019. So, such a quick question: When can we count on this report, the report for 2019 to reach our hands? But let's get back to that two years ago. You're boasting of the Minister's increasing number of places in daycare, but let's be honest about what this involves. It involves changes in limits. Since 2018 it is enough that there will be one nursery for children. The requirement for one child is also reduced. And so according to these changes per child may fall to 2.25 m2 Second thing. Are you aware of this, at this moment in Poland, we have white spots when it comes to supporting families? These white spots are local governments where there are no crèches - neither public nor private. They're just gone. And now in this report, you report that the municipalities report for this support from the Ministry. Of course, but let's look at these numbers. Only 22% The municipalities reported the need to create more places in crèches and children's clubs, but these municipalities are generally municipalities where these crèches and kindergartens are already in place, so there is a pretty good situation there. 96% of which 22% The municipalities were former municipalities. This means that in villages, in smaller cities, in rural communities, urban-rural communities simply crèches and children's clubs There isn't. There parents, mothers are left alone... Grandma's still here. ...and if someone wants to combine working life with raising children, they can't actually count on state support. Nor will we learn from this report about the situation of crèches today and what we will be doing. We're not gonna know what's gonna happen to the kids, to the nursery this year, over the next few months. 'Cause a lot of daycare isn't gonna open 'cause they broke down during the epidemic. We don't know what's gonna happen if the community's lack of finance reduces crèches. We won't know what's gonna happen to kids who don't go to crèches, who won't go back to them or go there at all because their parents either lost their jobs or have to deal with such a radical reduction in earnings that they just can't afford it. So now we see that this system, which you've developed many years before, just doesn't work. The fact that it doesn't work, our parents tell us, those parents who contact us and say that for their child there are no seats in the public nursery, and private costs 1,200 PLN. The fact that the system does not work, we know from parents whose Polish state forces them to calculate whether, in the face of work in the trash can or work for the lowest national it pays to send the child to the nursery. The fact that the system doesn't work, we know from women, from mothers who can't send their children to nursery because they can't go to work right now, they can't start working. And do you know what's gonna happen to these women in 20, 30 years? They're gonna have starving pensions. And then this country that you have arranged will come and say to them, no, no. Ladies won't get a high pension. The ladies weren't working. So what if they did hard work when the state doesn't recognize it and doesn't want to help them? This is the moment when we see that it doesn't work, and let's do, ladies and gentlemen, something that this country has never done in its life: let's draw conclusions. Let's draw conclusions. If, despite millions, despite the strong local governments trying to provide a place in daycare, it doesn't work, let's change the system. The state should significantly support municipalities in the creation of crèches or children's clubs by means of grants, yes, grants, in the form of educational grants, not any grants that are once and once they are not. Daycare isn't a luxury, it's not a business, it's a business where it pays off. They are also needed in smaller municipalities. It's part of the system, just like school or kindergarten. Let us take care of the salaries and conditions of employment of those who take care of our children in daycare. It's a difficult and demanding job. I don't see why daycare is to be paid in kindergartens or in daycares other than in kindergartens or schools. And finally. Daycares aren't just well taken care of children. These are happy families, these are mothers who can live with themselves, these are fathers who have peace of mind. Well furnished, well cared and smart Poland starts in day care. Let us remember that and finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us draw conclusions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u261	Thank you very much. At the moment, I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Jolanta Fedak from the Parliamentary Club coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 and we will see her, we hope... Hello, welcome, Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u262	Good morning, hello. There you go. To be honest, I am pleased to speak about the Children's Care Act under the age of 3 because it was during the time when I was Minister that we took the task of changing the health care facility to such a modern day care facility, just the Children's Care Act under the age of 3. At that time, the institutional care of the youngest children was covered by 2% children. Today we are talking about 24%, so we have to say that there is some progress. But I'm gonna admit, honestly, that I have a lot of trouble and maybe even resent myself for going so slowly. All the more so because I am not particularly pleased either by the Minister's speech or by the Prime Minister's speech of such a far-reaching strategy. You are talking about this, Minister, today that care is not preferred by parents and that there are other forms of care that are supposed to be better, which is the result of the research that you have carried out, while in the 2030 strategy you say that the number of these places is expected to rise to 30%. This, ladies and gentlemen, is really very, very little. I think that most of the different resistances that have conservative governments are because the view that children should be raised in families under the age of 3 is valid and seems to be the most appropriate view. I would like to point out that once a conservative upbringing was raising children in a large family. Children were raised among many siblings. Today, when we have one child in the family, it will really be absolutely good for him if for some time it will be taken care of in just such forms where he will have comrades of play. It will be very good for him, and it has nothing to do with whether we're talking about a conservative or a left-wing way of raising. That's why I'm very disappointed that it's going so slowly. However, I would like to point out that perhaps this is going so slowly because the forms of care that you put in this report are simply too, I would say, difficult for this child, too imperfect, namely many children under the care of the teacher, small rooms, savings on children. You have to choose something. A child who cannot complain whether he is well taken care of or not, whether well in this kindergarten or bad, should be the subject of our particular concern. Even a child in kindergarten can repeat whether it is good, whether it tastes good, whether you were good, whether you were in classes, whether you went outside, whereas a little child must be a subject of particular concern and cannot be spared on this child. Perhaps, Minister, improving the standards of care would change the attitude of parents and otherwise express themselves about daycare in CBOS studies. I would also like to draw attention to the report itself. It's from 2018, which means it's two years old, which means it's perfectly expired. Indeed, we have written in this law to report these laws every year, so that we can all be clear about how the work on the programme and the implementation of this law is progressing. It is therefore surprising that you are delaying the submission of these reports. It would be good to report them by September 30th, just as it is in the bill, because the year of the slip is still, but two years is already... [[Disruption of reception]] ...that it's not very up-to-date that this data is not very up-to-date. I would like to point out that pro-family policy should be an absolute priority for the state, above all divisions. There can be a situation (the bell) that comes a new government and turns everything upside down. That's why I'm glad that this programme is being implemented better or worse. I hope that the number of places in daycare, and good places, such places that will be good for children, will simply be greater, as I wish you and myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u263	Thank you for your wishes. We ask Mr Krzysztof Tuduja from the Confederacy circle at the moment. The Member is coming. He's here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, in this debate, it is worth bowing down to all families, brave Poles who do not give up having children, do not give up for a career, for some economic momentum. A great respect, because to reconcile these two things is a really demanding thing. The role of the state is not to disturb. It is good that in this case there are several options, there are many. With regard to private institutions organized by authorities, local government units, it is beneficial. What I would like to add to this is what the Minister said. I encourage and call for us to finally have a strong programme of family-friendly policy, comprehensive and not selective. Not a point, not a nursery, but a comprehensive family policy programme that will respond widely, strongly and effectively to demographic challenges. We must remember that this is one of the two most important three problems we face. So I encourage and appeal. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u265	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u266	God bless you! God bless you, sir! Mr. Marshal Venerable! High Law of Izbo! Continuing with the thread taken by my colleague Tuduja, I will say clearly and decisively: that there should be any children in Poland whose fate could be cared for, defending them against organized and disorganized crime - by organized crime I understand, of course, the gangs of paedophiles and the Social Insurance Institution, because this is organized crime, action to harm children together and in agreement by various mafias, servants and lodges that have already made a long time ago hostile takeover of the project of Polish statehood - so that children can be defended, cared for, they must be born. Therefore, reports of this type, this reporting joyful bureaucratic work is one continuous demonstration of hypocrisy in a situation where life itself, the safety of human life in the Republic of Poland is not legally guaranteed. From the same bleacher it was about today, a few dozen minutes ago, said on another occasion. That is, the smallest Poles, the youngest Poles, such Poles who cannot speak at all in their defense, those who have not yet issued this voice, because they have not yet been born, are not safe. Well, High Izbo, let's pay attention to this phenomenon. For the first time in the most recent political history of the Republic of Poland, because in old times of such obvious obvious facts fortunately in the public forum nobody discussed, childicide was childicide and that was it. But since it's been discussed, for the first time in the history of the Third and Half Mothers, it would seem, of course, ready, guaranteed parliamentary majority for life. For who among you, colleagues from this side of the room, from the only rightful majority, the Law and Justice with appetizers, will publicly deny, deny and twist in this matter? Which one of you is gonna say openly that he's not for life? The Confederation's votes are guaranteed. 11 votes in favour. When we had to vote here about a project against eugenic abortion, our 11 hands rose up. But there will also be people in the nearby clubs who may be a little conspiracy, maybe they don't flaunt it, but they won't be against it. And that is only the political will, or rather the absence of it, the omission on the part of the current ruling agreement, makes the safety of human life in the Republic of Poland not guaranteed. I'm using these moments to call you, the government, the Belgian President, and you, the parliamentary majority with the president, the Prime Minister and the Żoliborski chief: guarantee the safety of human life, and then write reports in which... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another passus, Mr. Marshal, one, literally one of this report, from this report. That's where we talk about the qualifications that those people who take care of children need to have. And there's everything: there's a higher education, up to science titles, there's qualifications, there's experience. But in this bill there is no aunt, grandmother, uncle, uncle, because that is not what the bureaucratic state sees, or rather the euro-colchos land. He doesn't see the most normal thing. Guarantee the safety of human life. It will become history, it will open a new card in the history of Poland. Godspeed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u267	Thank you on behalf of your grandparents, Mr President. Not in vain. Ladies and gentlemen... Congratulations on your crap. Thank you very much, sir. I wish you the same. Sooner or later, you'll come to this state. Ladies and gentlemen, here we go... I'm working on it, Marshal, persistently. Are you working? Okay, I'll cross my fingers. If you want to know how it's done, I'm here to help. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. The person asking the question is 25. We will, ladies and gentlemen, ask all persons in the order of the applications, because if there were more than 30 of them, we would use mixing, parities and arrangement according to what is in the regulations of all kinds. I invite the first person, Mrs Wanda Nowicka from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u268	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The government programme, which is described in the report, is far from satisfactory. And it's not surprising. All we have to do is compare how much money the government has spent on day care - about 500 million PLN - and how much money Minister Gliński has spent on.Dama with a weasel - about the same amount. It is therefore hard to be surprised that the effects of this government program are what they are. A very valuable monument, a national pearl. Please... Marshal, may I have your intervention? The Member has already understood. Yeah, so it's hard to... How can you do that? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I have such a request for you, Madam Member. Let's not interrupt, or I'll go get Marshal Witek, and she'll punish you. Ha, ha, ha! That's what she told me today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If anyone interrupts, I'm supposed to go get her, she's gonna come and punish me. [[Applause]] Therefore, on behalf of Marshal Witek, I draw your attention in a primitive, unambiguous but at the same time sympathetic manner. We're adding time to your messenger. There you go, Mrs. Nowicka. Thank you, Marshal, for your intervention. Yeah, it's hard to be happy with the program we spent so little money on. And that, of course, comes from a government report. What, on the other hand, is lacking in this report? Any analysis of why it's so bad when it's supposed to be good. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Silesian Voivodeship, the availability of places in crèches is at 17%. It's about 17% of all children, right, who can have day care. It's really not much. In Gliwice - a city finally big - there are also huge problems with day care. Not to mention the Gliwice state, it's already drama. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't buy such a story that local governments are responsible for this. I expect the government to present an analysis of why. Local authorities are unable to build more day care. Apparently, you don't give enough money or that money is misdirected. Think about what you can do to make things better. Because the fact that there's a good government that gives, and a bad government that deliberately doesn't want to build day care, that's not true. This is an insulting statement about local governments and such arguments we cannot accept. So get to work and do whatever it takes... First of all, give me more money, well-targeted... Mr. Marshal, time. Miss... ...so that children of crèches can have proper care anywhere in Poland, also in my voivodship, Silesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u269	Thank you very much. Let me remind you of time, one minute. Excuse me. Well, we've extended a little. Yeah, I'll have the same. Ma'am, I'll give you... If you didn't mind, I'd have less. [[At least the marshal doesn't break the mike.]] [[What if he doesn't? What do you mean, he doesn't?]] He won't turn off the microphone. But listen, guys, if you guys just chill out a little bit... Everyone's gonna talk. I'm sure you have something nice to say... I'm trying. ...you'll talk longer. Wonderful calls, please. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The challenge of civilization, but also the constitutional obligation of public authority, is now to bring the nursery closer to the child, to the family. Because if we look at this report, which shows that in 21% of rural communities, we only have one small-child care institution... That's the basic problem. Secondly, we also have territorial diversity. Look, in lubelskie, this ratio is 16%. , and in Opole - 56% It's better. According to the information from the municipalities, we still have a demand for more than 70,000. We've got 144,000 of them, which is half of what we've got so far. Those who want, know how to do it, and have money, want to run... So that's the big challenge. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister one question. How, with what instruments, does the government want to eliminate these differences in access to daycare in the rural environment? I asked the wojewódz why they didn't run it, even though there are government programs, European programmes. They say this: it is not enough to bet, it is not enough to function for a year, for the duration of the project. And then what? What about the long-term financial forecast? They can't afford it physically. Thank you, sir. And without state aid, you can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that government studies have identified the inability to combine family life with work as a barrier to decision-making about family enlargement and having children. Noticeing the obvious issues for the Left is progress making it possible to introduce reasonable intervention policies. Now about these politicians. It is extremely interesting to see the table on p. 24, which makes it clear that increasing the number of childcare facilities for young children is due to non-public entities. For self-governments, non-public care for children up to the age of 3 is cheaper than building and maintaining newly built public crèches. I therefore ask for the conclusions of the reports. How do you want to ensure the continuity of support for non-public entities that have experienced the withdrawal of support to maintain financial liquidity at times and at least twice? And most importantly, how do you want to support the creation of a public network of crèches that are not in my Lubuskie voivodeship and across the country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you planning to change the billing of the program? It's an extremely time-consuming picking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prices for a place in the nursery are, of course, dependent on the city in which the facility is located. We know that prices in Warsaw are between PLN 1700 and PLN 1900, in Poznań we already pay only PLN 1600 for daycare. This is similar in Krakow and Wrocław. It's obviously the cost of meals. Since 1 February 2020, the fee for daycare in my home town has increased from PLN 360 to PLN 416 according to the Council's resolution. The board fee is 7 PLN. It's easy to count that even 500+ for a fee is not enough. I'd like to say that I'm very happy to have an adult daughter, because I can say with all my heart that I couldn't afford a nursery. Mrs... I'm actually worried about what's gonna happen when I become a grandmother, and I'm not gonna have to add to that. Of course, we are aware of the subsidies, the other social programs and all the assistance you offer. However, I would like to ask if you are aware - because I did not find anything about it in the report - that the funding does not cover an entry fee in the nursery, which is between 300 and 500 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a pretty high amount. Maybe you'll need a loan to put the baby in the nursery. Who passes it, this entry fee?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. The Left alone. No, then there's the Civic Coalition, and there's thousands of Members and Members from the Civic Coalition. Thousands? Where's the thousands coming from? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the report, the number of places in daycare is increasing, but because most new places are private places. The Ministry's representative made it clear that the creation of seats in private crèches is cheaper than in the state, which is why the government is going this way. This is not a good solution, especially in times of crisis, when the income of many families has fallen dramatically or fallen dramatically and cannot afford a private facility. An unpaid place in a public nursery should wait for every child, should be a law, not a commodity, not even for parents' sake, but for children's rights. The consequences of privatisation are now clearly visible in many sectors. The availability of public services becomes a private privilege when many children cannot go back to daycare due to sharpenings because there are no seats available. If it is as good as the report presents, then why do children from Brodno, why children from Żoliborz or from other parts of Poland still can't go back to daycare (The bell), but they have to stay home with their parents? Thank you. That's a question for Trzaskowski. How does the minister know why they can't come back?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are discussing the 2018 report in May 2020. If we worked in a private company this way, each of us would be fired immediately. Why should we wait almost two years to talk about a report like that? The report was received by the Sejm on 26 September 2019. It was late anyway. In my hometown, in Jelenia Góra, there is one nursery run by local government. In the report, as my previous speakers and previous speakers have said, you say that it is much cheaper to put it into private hands. I am an opponent of this and I think that we should support the local authorities so that these local governments can build daycare, but also maintain it. I think it's no coincidence that on 7 October the former Minister of Environmental Protection (the bell), unfortunately dead, summarized the policy with regard to daycare. He said, quoting: You do not need to help artificially in the construction of nursery, kindergarten, these other things. These are temporary matters as a legacy of the previous communist system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are many reservations about this report: about the quality, about the way the numbers are presented, about the caution of the authors in their presentation. However, what is obvious is that the government, the same one who spoke so much about family safety in 2018, spent 500 million PLN on daycare. Just like your marshal said, you've allocated as much to the painting of a lady with a weasel. Let us remember that children this is the salt of our land, our demography is shrinking and we should allocate as much resources as possible. You'll be able to lower it. The left hand serves in this case. We have solutions prepared and we encourage you to use them. For starters, you can opt out of buying, for example, F-35 assault planes and invest in our future, in our children. Thank you very much. Maybe someday we can save their lives with those planes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u281	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Monica Falej, from the parliamentary club of the Left. And if she's not here, I'll ask you for a message from Karolina Pavliczak. What if... There it is. Oh, she's hiding. I'm here. Mr. Marshal can't see me. Come on in. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not saying that there's been nothing done about day care for years because things have certainly improved. When I was Vice President Kalisz - let me mention the past - the city's government also benefited from this. This investment was attended by the then Vice-President of Wielkopolska, today Minister. However, the question remains: Can there be more to be done? The published report by the CSO on the situation of childcare up to 3 years shows that in Poland over 1 million children have 150 thousand children. places in nursery and children's clubs. Children often wait several months in line for a public nursery because it is hardest to get there. These are often the dramas of these families. So please note: What programs are in preparation today for (the bell) to increase the number of places for children under the age of 3 in public crèches? What is the Ministry doing in this area? How does he want to support local governments? I think this support is absolutely necessary so that parents don't face such dilemmas anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u283	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the law, the municipalities report by 14 February. The Provincial is obliged to submit a summary report to the Ministry by 28 February. I would never allow myself to have these questions, which I have prepared here, but I understand that the Ministry has been studying the implementation of this programme for a long time, and I will therefore allow myself to pass on the following questions. I would like to find out what funds from the programme "Maluch+" have entered my voivodship, Kujawsko-Pomorskie" and how many new places of care, including for children with disabilities, have been created in my voivodship and how many jobs have been created within the framework of these measures in our voivodship's gminas. How does the government assess cooperation with my region in the care of children up to the age of 3? Are there any particular positive examples of this cooperation? Does the government intend to increase (the bell) the financing of care programmes from EU funds in the future? I will not give up the opportunity to hear an oral reply from the Minister, but I will ask for a written reply on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u285	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Krawczyk from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Finally.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I have a proposal for you to ask the people, usually the young, who are born with the child they want, what problem they will face in a moment, which is after maternity leave, fatherly leave. This fundamental problem will be the organisation of care for their child, because most of them will want to return to work. What alternative do you offer these young people? You offer them either to stay at home and to give up their work, or to send the child to a private nursery, where, as has already been said, the fee is PLN 1000, PLN 1200, PLN 1500, PLN 1700 or more. The vast majority of Polish families cannot afford such fees. In fact, the number of crèches, the number of places in Polish crèches increases, but these are places in non-public crèches, for which you have to pay huge fees, unless you pay for it by local authorities. So again, we are talking about the participation of local governments in the costs that the state should bear (the bell). 70% The municipalities have no nursery at all. Only 24% are public crèches. So I suggest and ask you very much to increase the funding in the "Maluch+" programme and change the way you finance it, because some of these poorer municipalities cannot afford to make their own contribution. And yet, Marshal, if you don't mind, two seconds for one question. Once again, we are faced with a situation like a few weeks ago when we were dealing with government information about the situation of the elderly, that we are dealing with a report in which the data are expired. Ladies and gentlemen, the report was received in September last year, 2019 and concerns 2018 and we are in May 2020 and dealing with it. This is completely ridiculous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very happy to have the pleasure and the happiness to speak when Mr. Marshal is holding the sitting, because I hope that no one will turn the microphone off in half a word. Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating, as our colleague said, the 2018 report. It's 2020, so the data that the Minister gave, not only that it's outdated, it's not true yet. Because it is not true, ladies and gentlemen, that the payment at the end of 2018 was 24%. That is simply not true and we expect the Minister of True Data from you. This real data was given by a friend of yours: on average, it's 19%. [[Applause]] There are municipalities where there are no crèches at all. Yes, there are municipalities where this indicator is higher. These are mostly large cities, thanks to which these indicators are decent, and in big cities fortunately you are not ruled by you, but by real self-government. Ladies and gentlemen! It's also not true that the number of daycares has increased. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The number of places in daycare has increased because you've changed your parameters. Currently, twice as many children can be stuffed on the same surface. It is approx. 2.5 m. I wonder if you can function on this surface. You haven't read the report. My question to the Minister: What funds have been allocated to the programme for the Lublin region? That's the first question. I'd like a written reply. And second question. I would like to know what funds the Ministry has spent on its own, so to speak, financial needs during the six months when you were debating the indicators and parameters that the Minister was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u289	Thank you very much. We will look forward to hearing from the Minister. We invite Mrs Iwona Kozłowska from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the Minister said that other forms of childcare up to 3 years of age are also preferred than day care, that there is work to be done on changes to the bill, because I would like to refer to the employment of a nanny who has been entitled to parents only since the 20th week of the child's life. The State guarantees assistance to parents in the form of financing employment costs, but you do not distinguish between the situation of multi-child families when more than one child is born at the same time. I'm talking about twins, I'm thinking triplets. During a meeting with moms in families where twins and triplets were born, we note that care for these children has been needed since the return from the hospital, because there is a lot of work to be done on one newborn, as you know, and let alone when two or three babies suddenly appear at home. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've had a situation like this, too. I met with my mom, triplets, premature babies who were born sick. Parents have to go to the doctor, they have to go to rehab. One kid stays home, two of them have to leave. They do not have care for these children because family or loved ones are unable to secure this care. I would very much ask you to answer the question, Minister, if you are preparing amendments to the co-financing rules as regards the situation of mothers who have had more than one child at the same time. Is there also a chance that you will increase your funding to the employment costs of these nannies depending on how many children the nanny takes care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u292	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have this appeal on behalf of the Warsaw women and the Warsaw women. We are talking about 2018, but I would like to move on to 2019. High Izbo! The government co-financed free childcare facilities up to 3 years in the city. Warsaw in the amount of 4.5 million for the whole year 2019. One request is that the funding for Warsaw for free childcare for children up to 3 years is at least such as funding for companies associated with Minister Łukasz Szumowski in 2019. In 2019 this subsidy amounted to more than PLN 22 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 22 million PLN is the amount that would satisfy all the needs of the city. Warsaw. Symmetry, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u293	Thank you very much. We'll do everything we can on this. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the child care problem is a problem. not only large towns, but also, I would say, county Poland, those smaller towns, where very often there are no places to care, there are no places where parents can leave their children. And the question to the ministry, to the government, whether a program is planned for this purpose, which will specially treat these small local communities in small towns, but not just on the east wall, because the government has accustomed us to going there, but for example. in such voivodships as the Śląskie voivodship, where this number of places per child belongs to the lowest in the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question a little different from the report, which concerns the current situation, the situation related to the coronavirus, is there going to be a financing path for those parents whose children are cared for every day when they are not organized forms of care. Those parents were left unattended, unattended. They don't want to put their grandparents at risk. Does the government provide any financial support for those who usually work both parents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The report by the Council of Ministers on childcare under the age of 3 shows that there are far too few crèches and childcare facilities in Poland up to the age of 3. I am very concerned about this fact. In the reports submitted by municipalities and non-public entities, i.e. Okay. 22% all municipalities in Poland have declared the need to create new places of care, specifying this for about 71 thousand. Places. These are data only from part of Poland. I was also very concerned by the statement in the report that it cannot be excluded that the data are understated due to the lack of financial resources in municipalities, e.g. to put on daycare. Sad reflection. Do local governments have to resort to hiding the needs of their residents because they can't count on government help? So I have a question: What is the government going to do to get these municipalities back to the conditions that all parents and children deserve? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're Poles too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Child care up to the age of 3 is extremely important and important for at least two reasons: firstly, proper care must be provided for children, substantive supervision and, on the other hand, the possibility for parents to take up employment. I am very pleased that both the expenditure on this care and the level of care increase, while it must be said that this level is absolutely insufficient. A lot was said here about the fact that parents should have a choice. Of course, they should have a choice, but unfortunately they do not, for at least two reasons. First of all, because it's still about 70%. The municipalities have no self-government nursery, secondly, even if it is, the cost that parents bear is several times higher than the cost of pre-school care. What should we do? First of all, support local authorities, support them, using systematic aid, not as ad hoc. That's what's already been said here. It is not enough to build a nursery, it is necessary to provide systematic support based on educational subsidies. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, especially for having such an important debate. First of all, I don't want to race Law and Justice and tell you who did what. We didn't race you either. Babysitting up to 3 years is a state responsibility regardless of ideological or ideological issues. Therefore, let us remove ideological issues, knowing that the coverage of needs is only 23%. But I want to point out the voivodship, for example Świętokrzyskie, where it is 12% or the Podlaskie voivodship - 17%. It shows how much we have to do together. Today we should thank all those carers who have taken up work despite COVID, and this is what we should talk about, how to secure daycare, or should we not test employees, take care of it together. I want to say that today we have a dramatic situation. Dramatic, because thousands of daycare, Minister, may not survive. I'm talking about the fact that thousands of Poles have opened nurserys thanks to creativity (the bell). One sentence, Marshal. 54% all crèches are nurserys opened by individuals. The government didn't want to open it. If today's COVID criteria allow only 50% to be accepted Children, most of these daycare centers may not survive the next weeks and months. I know that some are supported by local authorities, they are permanent subsidies, but I appeal to the Minister, and I am done, Mr. Marshal: let's talk about the summation of 2 years, but if the criteria are not changed, it is about the possibility of accepting all children, most of them, thousands of day caretakers are threatened with bankruptcy. We will not recreate what thousands of people have done to bring up the youngest ones on a daily basis. I call on you to take care of this case. We have an education committee meeting tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause]] Daycare isn't education. It's the wrong committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u301	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. And in order for the Member to be pleased, I would add that you are also the President of the Modern Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing a report from the child care programme under the age of 3 from 2018. Minister, this is prehistory, this is the time, the reality before the pandemic. The real reality is here and now. I want to use the Minister's presence to ask about this reality here and now, what concerns Poles most. A very simple, specific question. Recently, child care has been restored as part of the relaxation of pandemic-related warnings. And the question is, how did you secure the nursery? Did the local authorities receive support in carrying out tests for staff? No. The answer is simple: you didn't do it. You didn't secure the day care staff. It's about running tests. You left the local government, you left this staff, you left your parents. That is the answer, we know the answer, but to keep this answer for posterity, I will ask the Minister to prepare the answer to this question in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u303	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the 2018 report, a prehistoric report, as Mr Adam Szłapka has just stated. In 2018, the children's children's nursery care programme was not included, i.e. he didn't promote nursery care, he was additional support. Nurseries operate mainly in large cities, but even in these large cities, such as: like Poznań, 2/3 of daycares are non-public day care, because local governments cannot afford to organize as many places in daycare as possible. The European Union envisages 30% of children in this age group who should be cared for in kindergarten. We have 19% in this report. There's still a lot to do. These 2/3 crèches, even in those big cities that (the bell) have secured NGOs, are currently at risk due to these sharpenings and a 2-month, 3-month stop. What government provides for rescues in the current programmes, because they are no longer supported, not aided, for non-governmental organisations running daycares used by Poles and Poles, which are unable to secure local governments because they are not receiving support, but some microscopic in relation to the needs of the programme. What new safeguards do you provide for the care of non-governmental organisations and local governments to survive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u305	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederate circle. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u306	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I continue with the hypocrisy in the conduct of government as executive as well as legislative. Since there is a report on care and therefore the safety of children, since you already consider it desirable and appropriate to interfere the state in this sphere of life of Polish minors, newly born, do you not feel responsible for the safety of these youngsters in public space, which, as the name itself indicates, is directly under jurisdiction and today is under an increasingly careful eye of the police authorities? Well, in this public space in recent years, just after this time of report (The Bell), we are dealing with a radical, revolutionary invasion in the form of a manifestation of perverts and perverts. Last year, which is no longer covered by this report, the parades of deviants and provosts of deviants were pilgrimed across the streets of most large Polish cities. I have a request for you, sir. You sent the police... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u307	First of all, your time is up, you've extended by half a minute. Secondly, I have a request for you: don't insult people from the Seymary's pulpit, saying they're perverts, deviants, because they don't have... Anybody report? Mr. Marshal, are you offended? Sir, I'm offended, of course, on behalf of people who shouldn't be offended. Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Catherine Ueberhan from the Left Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much, thank you. Goodbye, sir. One more thing I wanted to say to you: I do not wish you to insult people in the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] And regardless of whether you are conducting these deliberations by Marshal Witek or any of the marshals, and regardless of his views, I will not allow anyone in the Polish Seym to be insulted. And remember that. Miss, you're welcome. Ad vocem, caused by your marshal. No, sir, your messenger. There you go. I approve of your intentions, although I think it was a remark that has nothing to do with my speech. Can you sit down? Because you're about to pay the penalty. Thank you for your discipline. Discipline sometimes helps you think. Listening with understanding would be nice, Marshal. Miss, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Braun! Maybe not a lawsuit, but an ethics committee that's still in the Seym, so maybe she'll take care of it. But it's time to ask a question. Unlike Mr Braun, I will ask the question. Statistics can be presented in different ways. When we talk about the report, we expect objective data. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this was not the case with this report. It is precisely an example of the cost of a child's stay in the nursery. According to the report these amounts are up to 350 PLN or from 350 to 600 PLN. We all know that these costs are much higher. In addition, there are food costs, which are again several times higher than those indicated in the report. In addition, you seem to note in your summary that your parents pay 1 000 each. zł and more for the baby's place in nursery. I ask: Then why did this data not appear in the report? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When are we gonna get the actual real-life report? And I wanted to ask you about the money that was spent on the "Milch+" programme. How many of these funds were spent on Wielkopolska Voivodship and in what amount? How many places have been created... It is in the document, Madam, broken down by voivodship. Good. In that case, we're waiting for up-to-date data for another year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member. In correction mode, Mr. Marshal. I was called by the name of the Member. I couldn't hear it. You're gonna take a look at the protocol. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u310	Minister! I wanted to ask you to confirm the information I collected regarding the creation of a number of childcare facilities in Warsaw. According to my information in this richest city in Poland, one of the richest European cities, in 2018 695 places were created in daycare, while six additional places were created from own resources. I would therefore like to share my reflection. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about self-governments, about a small commitment to the creation of crèches, please do not say that the government does not give and does not do, because we have a joint job to do (the bell). It is the work of Members in their local governments lobbying for family, talking with residents and local governments, encouraging them to make 1 km less and take care of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u311	Thank you very much. I have a question for Mrs Joanna Borowiak, because you will then have five minutes at the end. Yeah, but I just wanted a quick question. You wanted to ask yourself a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, I was not going to raise this question, but I was inspired by the Member of the Civic Platform. It has just been praised, and there has been a glorification of child care activities up to the age of 3 under the PO-PSL coalition. Allow me to quote a few sentences: the measures taken by 2015 did not translate into the development of childcare institutions under the age of 3. The number of nursery and children's clubs remained far from sufficient. The rate of children in institutional care in 2015 was 8.3%. Mrs. Member! This is information from the archival website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. You've judged yourselves that way, and so your thesis is that you don't know how well it was, it's illegal. For comparison: in 2017, the number of municipalities in which such institutions functioned was 805, 32%, in 2018 - 930 municipalities, 38%. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, the Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and [[♪ The bell ♪]] - 19.5% , in 2020 - 24.5%. Minister! My polite request could you indicate the progress that has been made since 2015 in the implementation of childcare up to 3 years to this year in order to make the opposition Members aware of the situation, how much remains Done. I'm really sorry about this... Thank you very much. ...that today's discussion is political, and it shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u314	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Messenger! The difference between the Civic Platform and the PiS is that we were never satisfied with what we did... Quite right. ...because we knew we could do more and we could do better. Unlike you, because you think you're the best, and of course you're doing everything wrong. [[Applause]] Why didn't you do as you knew? Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to protest Mr Braun's words. Of course, I agree with Mr Marshal's criticism that people must not be insulted in the Polish Sejm, but I would like to refer to earlier words. Well, Mr Braun from this speaker said that the Social Insurance Institution is a criminal organisation. I do not understand how the Minister, who represents the government in the Polish Parliament, could not react to these words. You should have come, asked your marshal to speak and told Mr Braun... You've got to be kidding me. ...that the Social Insurance Institution is an institution that has been ensuring that Polish seniors receive a pension for 85 years. And in the world there is no common pension system (the bell) other than that young workers pay a contribution so that their parents do not starve to death. I understand that if the Confederation, God forbid, would one day come to power, that the Polish pensioner would not knock the postman, would not bring him a pension, because criminal organizations must be liquidated, then I think every government knows. To 9 million Polish pensioners I say: Remember, the Confederation does not want mailmen to bring you retirement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. Correct, Marshal. My name has been mentioned. Me too. Oh, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, miss. Although it says so, it's the order, but I'm sorry. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u316	Thank you, Marshal. I would just ask that the Minister, if she answers the questions asked by Mrs... Do not manipulate data, as in this report, show how many new facilities have been created thanks to the money provided. I have already said in my speech: you have allowed children to be stuffed in fewer rooms and there are more full facilities. This is not your achievement, this is a lowering of standards, that is what we do not want and we do not allow it. And as you wish to fill in the data concerning Warsaw, I'll tell you. At the end of 2018 - 7993 free places in daycare... How much was created in 2018? ...and next year we have these places over 13 245. That's the scale. actions on which the state government was unable to kidnap across the country. We did it in Warsaw. This is the revolution (the bell), this is the highest level of crunch in the whole country... In 2018? ...that's the most money that's spent on daycare. You are well aware - Minister, I would like to ask you to answer this in writing - because it is apparent from the local authorities' data that government subsidies cover 10, up to 20% the actual costs of construction and maintenance of crèches. The other costs are on the shoulders of local governments, on the shoulders of entrepreneurs, and we believe that this is your job. Not supporting TV, not supporting your own, but babysitting. And not to impose new tasks on local governments, which are not followed by funds, because these local governments are going to have to take care of these crèches right now... The task of local governments. ...instead of maintaining you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u317	Thank you very much. That's what the bill needs to be changed. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland. In corrigendum mode. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I'm going to protest very strongly against the fact that we're here in historical disputes, the analyses are spinning. Today, I think it is important to reflect on the future, what in the care of children up to 3 years the Polish state can do. There is a need for rapid reflection on forward action ahead of this situation. Because whether in Poznań, in Warsaw or in many other smaller towns - the problem is the same, i.e. We don't have enough space. I will not let you manipulate me into bidding, who more, who better. Today we should all, the state as those who exercise power, bet on the good programs that will develop this nursery base. Question at the end. Minister, what kind of resort is he planning to take action? Will they be run together with local authorities or on the basis of government administration? The aim is to expand this base to develop it, so that it will continue to grow dynamically in the future. Thank you very much. You've been in charge for eight years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u319	Thank you. In correction mode, Mr. Marshal. There are no people left to ask questions, so Mr Braun is corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! The slanderous insinuation came from this tribune, Mrs Leszczyna suggested, contrary to the reality, that the Confederation was not in favour of fulfilling the agreements concluded. On the contrary, the Confederation would very carefully like to enforce the fulfilment of the State, the Republic of Poland in all its agendas, with commitments made to past and future generations. However, this has nothing to do with the fairness or wickedness of such an institution, such as the financial pyramid as is bismarckish from the genesis of the ZUS. Every Pole should understand that something that was first put into motion, was practiced by German Chancellor Bismarck, the one from culturekampfu, something that came to his first mind and managed to implement (the bell), could not be good for Poles. And such words, Mr. Marshal, as perverts, sodomites, deviants, are words belonging to the dictionary of the Polish language and I do not think they are offensive. Thank you very much. If the marshal thinks otherwise, convince me on the way to a civil suit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u321	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u322	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First, preliminary point: I am surprised to see that a large part of the questions concern the figures and data contained in the report. Yes. So I encourage you to read first of all. Of course, I am not going to address each of these questions in detail now. I will not specifically address these questions, which you have requested in writing. We will be happy to give this answer, partly repeating the information contained in the report. On the other hand, I would like to refer to some of the statements that have been made here. Firstly, with regard to the number of daycares that have been created in the last 5 years, I can read the data: in 2015 there were 2990 daycare centers, in the following year - 3451 in the next - 4271 in 2018 - 5080. I still have the data for 2019 so it's not so prehistoric - 6255. 150... Keep it down, Member. Thus, talking about shoving children in the same number of institutions absolutely misses the truth. Second of all, I'm making my mistake right. Indeed, it was said here on my part that the contribution is 24%. This is the credulity for today, not for 2018, which we talked about. That was 19% at the time. These differences are significant. When you look at the perspective not of the last 5 years, but of the last 13 years or even from the moment the law has been in force, i.e. since 2011, it takes a lot of bad will not to notice that this growth dynamic is very high. As far as rural communities are concerned, there is also a significant difference. Namely, the share of rural communities increased over the four years from 12%. up to 21%. Of course we can say it's not enough, and it's not enough, I said it too. At the same time, I note that this: not enough does not mean that daycare is the only form of care, and I still maintain it. Finally, I would like to address this problem more generally. Institutional care for children is only one of the elements, one of the most important, but one of the elements of a widely understood family policy. Since we have ahead of us, which I am very much hoping for, substantively, I will use this word, a debate on the demographic strategy which I hope will soon be able to present, I think there will also be an opportunity to talk about childcare up to the age of 3, not only in terms of dynamics of the number of these places of care, but also in relation to the various other instruments that this care can support. And I'm counting on parliamentarians' ideas as well. To tell you the truth, when I heard the Left Club calling in their idea, I had a light on to keep my ears open. But unfortunately, ideas that involve liquidation, blockage, resignation... I don't think that's the way we want to go. So, in conclusion, I believe that we have achieved very much in the last four years of implementation of this law. Of course, they are not satisfactory for us, which is why we will continue this policy, I hope, with good cooperation mainly from local government units, which also have a great role to play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u323	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, rapporteur of the committee, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are considering the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the Children's Care Act up to 3 years in 2018. I must say that I have, with some astonishment, accepted such a strong politicalisation of the discussion on the report by the Council of Ministers concerning the care of children under the age of 3. I did not expect such a discussion to take place, a discussion so politically, in which so much unauthorized thesis occurred. It seems that the plenary hall of the Sejm has such an effect on this climate of discussion, because I must say that at the committee meeting, even though the discussion was very lively, we discussed it much calmer and more substantively. Substantively. Unfortunately, today I have to say that there have been threads completely detached from this project. I have the impression that some Members of the opposition wanted to speak, but on a completely different subject. Unfortunately, this lowers the profile of our discussion. There have also been questions to be answered by your fellow Members in the document we are currently working on. Just read it carefully. There you will find all information broken down by voivodship, because I understand that each of us is interested in how this care is implemented in our region. Now such a short résumé. End of 2018 - close to 145,000. places of care, by 70% more than in 2015, when the Government of Law and Justice assumed responsibility for Poland. Accessibility rate for children up to the age of 3... Why do you need heroes? Why do you need heroes? ...at the end of 2018 it was 19%. That's 60%. more than in 2015 In 2018, we allocated PLN 450 million to the The number of childcare facilities for children up to 3 years in smaller municipalities, for example rural municipalities, is particularly welcome. These figures show that the development of care institutions for these youngest children is a priority of the government's family policy. The rule of law and justice ensures that safe childcare facilities for the youngest children are created and operated. The objective is to ensure that by 2030 the institutional care rate for children under the age of 3 is 33%. In order to achieve this, barriers to insufficient care facilities are being removed, new care facilities are being created, and measures are being taken to reduce the costs that Members have also been talking about, to manage and create care places while maintaining the quality of services and child safety. We respect the autonomy of the family, we want parents to be able to decide, choose between home care and institutional care, including between their forms. One more very important point, I left it to myself at the end, that's why. There was a question that called into question whether the need for child carers to have appropriate qualifications under the age of 3. Yes, the highest qualifications are needed, because children are our treasure, and from the earliest months of our lives we must take care of them as best as possible, and therefore these qualifications are necessary. One more thing. Children's care centres up to 3 years are not social assistance institutions. There's been a claim here that we should give a fishing rod, not a fish. No, because it's like we're gonna tell your parents either you have room for your kid in a nursery or a club, or you have to create it yourself. Let us not confuse concepts, honourable Members. Thank you again for this discussion. She was certainly creative, I'm talking about substantive voices, only those that refer to today's document that we are working on. However, I hope that further discussions on such programmes will be more substantive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u325	Thank you very much. I suggest you don't judge, we close the discussion, everyone's happy, more or less. Yeah, let's not judge, marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. The Social Policy and Family Commission proposes that the Sejm adopt the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2018, contained in print No 83. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Public Finance Act, print No 392. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act (Prints No. 383 and 392). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee. I don't know if I spoke as quickly as your Marshal Witek, but I tried so hard. How do you feel about that, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u326	I got here in time, it wasn't that fast. Great, great. Mr. Marshal, no chance. There you go. Come on in. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act, contained in print No 383, the committee's report is print No 392. Your Marshal of the Sejm has sent a government bill to work in the Committee on Public Finances for the purpose of first reading as well as considering this project. The project affects public finances, and actually affects the stabilisation rule, the expenditure rule, which is contained in the Public Finance Act, which protects the public finances of the Polish state from overindebtedness, from excessive spending. It could be said that this expenditure rule, in a stable manner, distributes expenditure evenly over all years, i.e. in a good economic situation these expenditures are somewhat inhibiting, but it makes it worse to make these expenditures, because it refers to years back, to expenditure from previous years. The expenditure rule, of course, brings excellent budgetary results, i.e. a deficit in the public finance sector decreasing from over 55% compared to GDP per year over the last 5 years, falling from 43.6% of current GDP. in relation to GDP for 2019. It is clear that both the spending rule, fiscal policy and government spending policy are very effective here. Unfortunately, this year is an exceptional year, and not only because we need to move in a limited way or because we have the health effects of the Coronavirus pandemic, but above all because these effects of the pandemic affect the economy. We are all convinced, however, that expenditure will be incomparably higher than spending in the average year, even because already in many dimensions an anti-crisis shield has been launched, that entrepreneurs receive very broad aid in the form of grants, subsidies, waivers of ZUS contributions and deadly loans. Everything to preserve jobs, wake up and sustain economic development. On the other hand, there are, of course, reliefs in the ZUS, redemptions of this type. It is also about the need to freeze the economy, especially in the areas of tourism, public transport or services. The fact is that budget revenue will certainly be lower in this area. It is therefore very clear that, without freezing or suspending the expenditure rule, it would be very difficult to implement budget expenditure in 2020 and to implement an ambitious, balanced budget. This is a problem that is common across Europe. On the basis of a recommendation from the European Commission, all countries can loosen this expenditure. Poland also benefits from this. Hence the Law, which de facto suspends the application of the expenditure rule for the period 2020 What is very important is that it is not a permanent suspension. In fact, the path of going back to the spending rule is shown. Depending on the development of the situation, this return will last for 2 years, a maximum of up to 4 years. This is extremely valuable. The Finance Commission has examined this bill. The discussion was very long, substantive. There was often a discussion about the level of public debt. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Legislative amendments were adopted on the basis of suggestions made by the Legislative Bureau, but the bill was presented to the High House in its original form. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I propose that the High House adopt a law amending the Public Finance Act to the extent submitted, print No 392. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u327	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. We will find out what Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has to say about this, because we will ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the bill amending the Public Finance Act. The law has only three articles, but its power of action and how Parliament will be able to enable the government to act will have an enormous effect. That's a big financial impact. Loosening those fuses that are in the spending rule of each budget that is adopted every year is an element that results from a situation that has not yet been foreseeable. Of course, pandemics could be predicted, but it was difficult to predict what would be the scale of what had happened in Europe and in the world. Therefore, in the current situation, our club believes that such measures, when it comes to the changes made and proposed by the government to loosen this element, which involves an expenditure rule, are a necessity. As the President of the Committee on Public Finances said, it is not about what period, but about a specific period, defined, with a fuse for counting the funds that will be spent during this period, so that there is no artificial cooling of the economy at that time, so that there are no problems that already exist and will already exist. On the other hand, it is about the scale of this problem. And this rule, the loosening of this rule, the addition in the law of this element, which has not yet been anticipated, or epidemic, is precisely this legal intention that introduces the possibility of temporarily loosening these expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, the main task of what we are going to do is to protect the labour market, jobs and places where this work is given to businesses all the time. Without these measures, this could not be done effectively. Therefore, among others. The Law and Justice Club will support this change so as not to move and risk too far-reaching consequences that have already occurred, as I said. But we don't want this scale to be generated. This was also mentioned at the committee meeting. The finance minister talked about it. You don't know exactly how deep it's gonna be. We, exactly us parliamentarians, also the Ministry of Finance, and perhaps above all, are exploring how deep the scale of this collapse is, the elements that affect cooling or freezing in certain areas of the economy. That is why we must, as I said, act quickly, concretely and decisively in this regard. Such a digression, ladies and gentlemen. It's time to decide. This is no time for debate. We often meet with such a condition that the Law and Justice Club carries out some laws efficiently and quickly. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because today this element requires it. This is not a violation of any law, because citizens are waiting for money. You should have let them vote. If you don't mind, there's an opportunity to talk about it. This is the data from May 26th this year. On account of 190 grand. companies were hit by PLN 37.3 billion. It's not small money, you'll admit it. 1088,000. people have just received this grant. It's an anti-crisis shield. Within the framework of various shield instruments, 13 billion PLN was paid out on nearly 5 million applications submitted. The BGK aid shield, which is the national economy bank, is also a very important issue. This is where the resources will be. with the loosening of finances about this fuse. To date, total aid amounted to PLN 6.4 billion. They're concrete. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be aware that the scale is enormous. This scale refers not only to Poland, this is the world scale. Good management is about predicting and reacting early, not waiting for results. That's how we treat it, and we think it's going in that direction. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support this law in its entirety. We hope that the opposition will also accept - at least that is what we heard in the committee, we will see how it will be during the vote - because this, please, is the dimension of responsibility for the Polish state, responsibility for what will happen to us in the coming months and years. The bill is defined. No constitutional fuses are compromised. 3% and 55% They're inviolable. This is a guarantee that there will be no problems with exceeding those elements that are written in the law, and the fuse of public finances. We believe that what will be possible in the near future through government activities will stabilise the situation in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club supports this government submission, this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u329	Thank you, sir. I cordially invite Mr Janusz Cichoń from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u330	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing a revision of the Public Finance Act, a key element of which has been the stabilisation of the expenditure rule since 2013. This is an anti-cyclical rule, whose essence is that in the lean years, i.e. in the years of the decline in economic growth, we can spend a little bit more, while in the fat years, when the pace of economic growth is sufficiently high, we build a pillow and we spend... Expenditure will increase at a slightly lower rate than this would result from economic growth. This rule is a kind of corset, which from the very beginning was very tight on the rulers, because already in December 2015 you changed this rule. You changed her quite important parameters because you changed the inflation parameter, calculated, by the way, twice, changing the actual inflation with inflation... It is a change in inflation, which allowed you only in 2016, I can say, to spend at start up about PLN 30 billion more. Of course, that wasn't enough for you. In the background there was also a change in how to calculate discretionary actions. You were very obsessed with it, you cared about it, you attributed it to discretion, for example. tax revenue growth, even though you were aware that this growth is largely due to the fact that the economy is growing and that these revenues are procyclical. That was still not enough for you. So you started spending outside the budget. Example of the Solidarity Fund - payment of thirteen This is a classic when it comes to this type of action, not the first and not the only one. If all this were to be calculated correctly, it would be worth 100 billion. However, today would be a better situation of Polish public finances and a greater freedom of reaction than we have today, in these really very difficult times. You wanted to limit this rule, and today you're really taking advantage of the opportunity. At the same time, we understand that the situation is indeed extraordinary. We are dealing with a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster, and this certainly justifies the exit clause, which, by the way, is recorded in this bill. But you're the keys. You are proposing to extend the conditions for using the exit clause to include the state of the epidemic and thus try to suspend this rule. Let us remember that the decision to declare an epidemic is made by the Minister of Health. It's really a strange solution for the health minister to decide on the exit clause, the suspension of the rule. Fortunately, you have put a drop in the pace of economic growth into this project as an additional condition. Two percentage points isn't much. I have doubts as to whether this is a sufficient condition. We know that this flexibility today, in terms of spending, is very much needed. In the face of recession, it is essential to support the health system, civil protection and also economic protection. The European Union also allows for this. I can say that the only thing that I really appreciate in this bill is that you define a path back to applying the rule itself. Except we don't want to go back to fiction, because you guys really did make fiction out of that rule. We also want to have a place for fiscal impulses in the coming years. Unfortunately, this excessive freedom may interfere with this. Another question is whether it will be public investment, as you think (the bell), or for example. It would not be better to temporarily reduce taxes. We'll see. However, what we really want today is to improve this law and seal the rule itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is to reduce the temptation to circumvent the spending rule in the future, after really returning to it, and at the same time to control Parliament, to control in the democratic process how you use this tool and suspend this rule. To eliminate these shortcomings, we are making amendments. I'll put them on your marshal's hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u331	And Mr. Marshal will be pleased to accept it. Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u332	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, we're taking the State's expenses off security, because we need to finance the fight against the crisis. If you had listened to the Left and introduced the state of the natural disaster when we talked about it, we could have responded adequately, without the discussion we had today, because this law provides for such an emergency procedure. Now you have to add an epidemic as a reason to loosen the spending rule. Can there be better evidence that we are actually dealing with a state of emergency in Poland? A few important questions arise. What guarantee do we have that the prudential thresholds will not be broken? After this discussion, I am not convinced. We are not convinced of this as a Left, because the debt-to-GDP ratio, you know, should not exceed 55% in accordance with the law and 60% - in accordance with the constitution. Today, we are only 12 percentage points short of the latter. The debt of the state is over PLN 1 trillion. With GDP falling by 4.3%, the European Commission estimates that it is very real to exceed these thresholds. How will the government guarantee that the implementation of this bill will not make us not gather here in a few months to change the constitution because you spend too much? And how much have you spent already? Who did that money really come to? If you cared about people as much as you care about banks, the crisis would be less severe. Make sure that the money from loosening the spending rule goes where it should go. Instead of generously giving away our funds for the Church, public media, saving the budgets of the families of ministers, bonuses in companies, just implement the Left's demands for ordinary people. Here I will remind you of three of them: a crisis benefit - 1800 PLN for all those who have lost the source of living in the crisis, financing the remuneration of workers in difficulty companies - 3/4 salaries financed by the state, fixed costs of entrepreneurs - half of rent costs, electricity charges for small enterprises in the crisis. These are simple demands that could be financed here. The left will be behind this project, but we want to make sure that this money goes where it needs to be, that it really helps. Please make sure we do this by deleting the anti-working records in the neighboring bill we discussed tonight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u333	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! First of all, when you look at the procession of this law, you can see the notorical defect that you are committing. Namely, although we are dealing with a government project, even the most basic consultations were avoided again. If these consultations were held, they would certainly take into account the position of the Polish Economist Society, and in this position significant problems were very interestingly identified, which I think would be very important. I'm talking about them because it's worth it. First of all, what do economists pay attention to? It is said that for at least 4 years we have had a problem with the transparency of public finances in Poland. This is not, on purpose, the opinion of politicians, but of professionals who judge this problem. They point out that the transparency of public finances is directly linked to the economic situation of our country. The more this transparency gets worse, the more difficult it will be to talk about some dynamic economic growth after the epidemic. This is the first case. Second thing. Minister, there is no way to separate the debate on this project to what we have seen recently. And the fact that the financing of health care is being transferred to county authorities as leading hospitals in Poland, a significant component of health care. And this is about the finances of local governments related to education reform. Tasks, costs shifted, and there's no money for it at all. This makes public finances in Poland observed in such a bad light. Mr Sipera was just throwing thunders at the opposition part of the room, that today such money was distributed to entrepreneurs, that money was distributed to other entities. Only, sir, do not present this data as if it were your money or your political environment. This is the money of entrepreneurs, this is the money of Poles who create the state budget, they create public finances. This isn't your money. This is also a reflection that has developed itself during this debate. In the opinion of the Polish Coalition, which I am pleased to represent, of course this particular time requires extraordinary solutions and such solutions in this law are included, but also force, and we would like to draw your attention to this, order in public finances and refine some transparency, which unfortunately last time is going somewhere. This is very important today, especially when we are talking about a new opening for Polish entrepreneurs, about the situation of those companies whose condition will affect the situation of the Polish economy. This is our reflection. Of course, we remain open at the same time, because we are not radically opposed to this proposal that we are proceeding on. But we cannot separate this with the overall situation of public finances and the actions that the government has done in recent years around public finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u335	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No year of the rule of law and justice in a good global economic situation ended with a budget surplus. No. All countries around, Germany, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Lithuania, Denmark, had budget surpluses, only not Poland. Over the past five years, Poles and Poles have been taxed and, worse, indebted by the Government of Law and Justice. You've had a good time. The crisis came, although, as Stefan Kisielewski said, it is not a crisis, it is the result, the result of the state's fatal, harmful decisions. As a result of this crisis, on the one hand, there will be an explosion of public debt and on the other hand a decline or at least a stagnation of GDP. Of course, you can tinker with the application of a stabilizing spending rule, but what you will do if the debt reaches the constitutional limit of 60%. GDP? Honestly, what are you gonna do? You're gonna change the constitution? Can you change the definition of debt? Why don't you change the definition of GDP? Look in the mirror and tell me what you see. Do you see the face of Minister Rostowski, the face of this creative accounting of the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, the change of definition so as not to exceed this constitutional threshold? So that it's not that I'm just criticizing you, I'll tell you what needs to be done. You'll have to tighten your belts. I'm not talking about the citizen's belt, I'm talking about your belt. For seven fat years, the responsible host saves the skinny, and even if he does not spare, in times of crisis he is first looking for savings, rather than flying with his tongue on top for a moment, after hay to the Stork. You're gonna ask me how you're gonna tighten your belt. First of all, deep deregulation, i.e. the elimination of thousands of unnecessary, harmful, costly regulations. Secondly, deburerocratisation, the elimination of hundreds of unnecessary, harmful and costly offices and institutions. On the other hand, if you want to stimulate the economy, it is by no means by means of inefficient official redistribution of money stolen from future citizens. It's not gonna work. I propose a reduction in labour taxation or, preferably, the elimination of labour taxation. This will stop the coming wave of unemployment, it will get people out of the grey zone, it will make the citizen pay for employment, work, and entrepreneurs will start to pay more jobs. And these promises of candidates, economic dilemmas, President Duda or the presenter of the Holovnia, to increase unemployment benefits above the minimum wage, put between fairy tales, preferably between Marks' capital and Keynes' general theory of employment, interest and money. Minister Kościński! I'm so glad to see you. I appeal to you: please do not take the way of the Minister of Government of PO-PSL, Minister of Rostovsky, through creative accounting. I know you're often compared to the minister. And do not listen to those Socialists on the benches, and the pious ones on the right, and the ungodly on the left. I know it's outrageous, but using this minute, I'm going to tell you the story of yesterday's public finance committee meeting, which ended at hours. 4:00 a.m. When I justified the amendment by Krzysztof Bosak introducing automation into the article on the suspension of credit, i.e. that there should be no such requests, without unnecessary bureaucracy, quickly and efficiently, the government representative without a statement of reasons said: against. And rightly an outrageous messenger of the Left asked: Why? This is what he comes up with, all white, prominent law and justice policy, explaining: because the rich will benefit from it. To which the Messenger of the Left: against. And this is what the common governments of the socialists and the devout ones and the godless ones look like. Unfortunately, these governments, this contempt for the rich, in the face of prosperity, will end in a disaster of poverty. As we all know, socialism will wipe everyone's nose out, the rich will suffocate them tomorrow, and the poor the day after tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u337	Thank you very much. And these devout ones, and those wicked ones, have given this to you, sir, that you may express your views in a democratic country, for which I warmly thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the questioning. One minute to question. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland, parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! Minister! And your team, who is here today! This is a special occasion, but the Public Finance Act makes it good that it is. Departure from the stabilisation of expenditure rule, which, of course, also arises in the Ecofin decision of March this year and in an epidemic situation, justifies this type of approach, but also raises a number of questions about the validity of this procedure. In the explanatory memorandum, the State states that this concerns 90% of the public finance sector, both public and local. I would therefore like to ask, what projection do the state envisage as a finance resort in terms of these local government problems that the local government is currently experiencing? Is it appropriate to say this, within the meaning of this new regulation which we are discussing today and which is about to be adopted (the bell), because tax revenue has fallen from 30 to 40% depending on the type of tax in one month? Some local authorities signal that rising costs and a fall in revenue may cause them to have problems implementing the budget as early as November this year, with steady dynamics. Thank you, and I apologize for the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u339	Thank you very much. You were so fantastic that we would listen and listen. Mr Robert Obaz from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, local governments, we completely forgot about them. We loosen up, we improve our results to avoid a little so-called. rolling debt or how much we can keep in debt, and the local governments are left alone. Such local governments, which live typically from tourism, as in my Świeradów, Szklarska or Karpacz constituency, whose revenues in recent months have fallen by 80%. How will you guarantee all the things that the Member has said before me that these local governments will survive and at the end of the year they will be able to maintain schools, nursery schools, kindergartens and pay their salaries to the officials you want to fire? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just a few months ago, when the government was working on the budget, he announced that it was the best budget for 30 years, a budget that was supposed to be balanced and safe. It wasn't supposed to run out of money for anybody. The NBP president said that we have an unlimited amount of cash. By March, your officials were more careful. They claimed that cash was sufficient and GDP would be 2%. However, we read in the explanatory memorandum of the contested law that the projected growth rate of GDP for 2020 is -3,4. GDP. Recession. What happened, Prime Minister? Was the Polish State, like the Material Reserve Agency, prepared for any eventuality, except for pandemics? Today you say you want to help, among others. health care. The Left has just appealed to you for 7.2 GDP on the healthcare system, and you have claimed that sufficient resources have been allocated. Today we know that you were missing the truth. Instead of helping Poles and Poles, you started financing the interests of your ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the government coalition loves to complicate and confuse. If a natural disaster had been put in place, we would not have had to discuss and find out today. The PiS loves to hide everything and act under the cover of the night. The Left will continue to urge and demand that state expenditure be public and transparent. We want to know who and how much you're giving. That is why I am asking where we, citizens and citizens, where we parliamentarians, will find detailed reports on the budgetary expenditure to draw our country out of the crisis to help our country combat the effects of the pandemic. Who and how many? Please respond in writing. Mr. Marshal, aside from time, I'd like to say one more sentence. Mr Braun left (the bell), but earlier he said that participants of marches, among others. Equality marches are perverts and deviants. As a person who has taken part in such marches for years, I feel offended by the Member and, together with my colleagues, we will turn to the ethics committee and ask him to be punished. Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u345	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! 4 years of record tax revenue, great economic prosperity, 4 years of tax sealing. So? It took less than three months of the epidemic, which the PiS government claims to have handled best in the world to make us bankrupt. We have a state finance disaster. I would like you to confirm before the High House that the estimated deficit of the public finance sector is 13% this year. GDP, PLN 200 billion. You know what that means? It means that you left Poles for this harsh winter barefoot, and if they catch cold and get sick, it won't even be for the health system to treat them. That's what you've done to every Pole and every Pole because you've been swinging for four years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Their money. You've been hovering. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u347	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Rosati, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. And if he is not, and he is not, I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At a time when we should be saving especially, at a time when we should watch every dollar twice to spend it as effectively as possible, you just took 70 million PLN and threw it in the mud, printing election flyers, because I wouldn't call it election packages. Today you want to freeze the spending rule because of the epidemic, but the rule is no rule if you deal with it, just as you have been dealing with it for a few years. First you changed it, then you cared about it. According to the latest report by one of the banks today, the deficit in the state finance sector can reach up to PLN 240 billion, i.e. Twelve percent. GDP after declines. Minister, you are well aware of this (the bell) that this is not the cost of our epidemic and lockdown, and of the freezing of the economy, because a penny of this money was already in the deficit that you had established by the circumvention of the financial rule and spending money on the left and right at a time of prosperity. Basic question to the Minister: Will you stop practicing creative accounting? Will you allow me to seal the financial rule, the stabilizing rule? Otherwise, any change in financial law makes no sense at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, applauding the entrance. Great.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u350	Thank you very much, Marshal. That was a round of applause for Mrs Hennig-Kloski. She summarized these absolutely irresponsible almost 5 years of rule of law and justice, because we all know that despite the good times, despite the fact that companies worked, workers worked, the government scootered, distributed, led an absolutely irresponsible financial policy. Today we have the result. It turns out that despite so many years of prosperity, despite the fact that it could have been so today that the money saved then could have been used to start the economy, build different impulses and put Polish companies back on their feet, today these measures are not available. Thanks to the European Union, again thanks to the European Union, thanks to European legislation, you are coming to the Sejm today with an idea for the next funds you will borrow. ♪ The bell ♪ Minister, if we are to work here, to cooperate, to adopt this law, please stand in the truth and tell us what is the deficit, the actual deficit of the state budget that the Sejm recently adopted, because the fact that you have hidden this deficit in various types of funds is a fact. Please have the civil courage to stand here in front of the High House and tell us what is the actual deficit in the state budget, hidden in various kinds of funds. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In my question, I would like to continue with what the Members who have spoken to me have started with regard to what has happened during the period of prosperity and how much has been saved for the period of deconuncture, but from a slightly different point of view, because I would like to see why this has happened. On the one hand, it was undoubtedly because the government did not respect this rule, cared about it, took money out of the budget and distributed more than it should. I think we need to ask about the role of finance minister. After all, the Minister of Finance should guard public finances. [[Applause]] And tell me, Minister, don't you think that one of the reasons is that, as never before, the Minister of Finance is at a very low level of government hierarchy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everyone else interferes, the Minister doesn't decide anything. That's one thing. And secondly, Minister, will you have the civil courage to guard public finances? This is the money of all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u353	Hard answers to the Minister, Minister. Just sit back, 'cause there's some questions. You'll get chained to a wall sometime. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Member of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are loosening the stabilisation financial rule, and it is right that this should be done during the economic crisis, but it is worth recalling on this occasion that this crisis started much earlier than the COVID-19 epidemic, even before your pseudo-sustainable budget. It should be made clear that, unfortunately, you are introducing these restrictions on the basis of a non-constitutional law. At the same time, and I must say this as a former self-government officer, you are tightening the loop around the neck of local governments, which are getting less and less revenue due to the epidemic, while at the same time - increasing costs due to your decisions. That's why I ask: When will you finally get on the shield for local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Member of the Civic Coalition and my good colleague. Yes, thank you. I don't know if what I did right now was a shot in the back of the head, but I hope not. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u356	Thank you. Of course not, Marshal of the Left. Dear Minister, You are present at the Parliament's meeting for the second time, for the first time with your deputy. [[Applause]] Welcome, Minister. I would like you to be responsible, under the rigour of telling the truth, what a deficit we have today in public finances. There are, of course, grounds for what the European Union is saying about the exit clause, but they cannot be applied under the rigour of the threat of medium-term development, medium-term stabilisation. Meanwhile, in times of really greatest prosperity you did not prepare Poland for a difficult time, you just spent too much. You know that very well. Today, most of the aid for entrepreneurs is located in two funds that do not burden the state deficit. I'm talking about BGK and the Polish Development Fund. This is nearly PLN 200 billion. After all, this is a burden on the state in general. I demand information about the real deficit in public finances today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I would like to say that you must proceed with the revision of the budget in a moment, because in the current budget we have economic growth and a zero deficit. Let's put an end to this fiction. Please show what is the correct, actual state of Polish finances. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Oh, I'm sorry... Chaos, chaos, chaos. So briefly you can summarize the PiS government in Poland. Social chaos, political chaos, economic chaos. And after today's deliberations, you can add legal chaos, because those laws that you're doing now are done on your knees to cover up everything that's been done in the last four years. Why is there an epidemic? It's because you haven't announced the state of the natural disaster, which is already in this law. Because if the state of the natural disaster were declared, it would be necessary to pay out to entrepreneurs and to those who have lost their jobs and to those who have lost their businesses, the compensation they deserve. You don't have to do that. They are given charity, and through charity they create a client society, a client society, not a civil society. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS and the ladies of the PiS, and you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ministers of the PiS [[Applause]] You're creating customers. I have one question for you, fundamental: when will you stop ruining my homeland? Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u359	Thank you very much. Is Mr Szczerba in the Chamber? If there isn't, we'll ask Mr Sosnier from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u360	You're trying to pull the fuses out of the financial system so you can keep on borrowing, but here the problem arises, the credit is not a tool for getting rich in itself, the credit can be good when someone has an idea for investment, when they know what to invest in and how to return it, while consumer credit is a tool for poverty only, because it's going to drink, drink, and you have to give it up with interest. So if someone comes for credit, you have to ask yourself two hellishly important questions, and I'm hoping to get an answer: What do you want to invest this money in to get it back, and what have you done to save money to see if you really need that credit? How many unnecessary officials have you fired already? How many wasteful programs have you eliminated? Have we already said goodbye to the plan to build a pointless airport in the middle of nowhere? Isn't it just that you want to keep your wasteful way of life, and that's why you borrow to spread money from a helicopter and talk, and keep your promises (the bell), which you now irresponsiblely make to everyone on everything you give? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u361	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here we are dealing with the loosening of the stabilizing expenditure rule. This is normally a dangerous situation. The current Public Finance Act does not specify how to return to the application of a stabilising expenditure rule. The draft submitted contains such conditions as to determine the length of the return path, which is determined on the basis of the scale and nature of the crisis. In the justification you can find a colored graph, you can find nice looking, professionally on paper looking formula formula for the exit clause. However, this in no way increases the transparency of public finances, which are unfortunately an example of creative accounting in our country. In the explanatory memorandum, you also pointed to the time limits: 2, 3 or 4 years, depending on the scale of the collapse of the economy. But what does this practically mean: a smaller or larger scale of economic collapse (the bell) or a bad macroeconomic situation? Such terms as: bigger, smaller, bad are not economic indicators, so I ask you: How exactly will you define and make it conditional for you to get back out of this clause? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. I will ask because Mr Jan Szopiński was expelled, and I see the Member: You will speak up, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the actual state of the state budget? What is the actual state of the budget deficit? How much has actually been spent on saving the economy, saving entrepreneurs, saving Poles, Poles, workers, workers after the pandemic? These are the basic questions for which we should get calculations for the second decimal position or further before we proceed to this type of project, like today, [[Applause]] That is, a waiver, a loosening of the stabilizing expenditure rule. The European Commission allowed such relaxation in March this year, but in order for countries to take action to increase the capacity of health services, civil protection and economic protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much has been spent so far and how much exactly do you intend to spend on civil protection? Do you intend to introduce a crisis benefit, such as the one offered by the Left? Are you going to cover the fixed costs of the enterprises affected by the lockdown, as the Left proposes? Do you intend to increase your healthcare expenditure to 7.2% How does the Left propose? Until we have the answers to these questions, we cannot accept such a risky move. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u365	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u366	Dear Marshal, Good morning, Minister Kościński, good morning, Minister Patkowski. I'll have a question for you. But I'd like to say that for the last term, you've emptied all your pockets, emptied your pockets, taken your money from the Labor Fund account. I mean, it was business money. You didn't do anything, you just charged local governments with possible debts to hospitals. This is 14 billion PLN. Today there's no money to protect your health. The state introduced 35 taxes and danin. You didn't lower your VAT and each year you pulled 8 billion out of the pockets of Poles. And today you come and say you give to entrepreneurs. After all, they made the money first, and you (the bell) spent their money. And now the question, Mr. Marshal, is the pilot flying with us? If Minister Kościński or Minister Patkowski, who responds as spokesperson for public finances, cannot answer us, from what money did Minister Sasin spend PLN 72 million on election cards, what of your spokesperson for public finance discipline? How are we supposed to believe you? The state is unable to show 70 million in the budget and to tell us honestly: it was spent with such money, we are conducting proceedings on the discipline of public finances. Thank you. Is the pilot coming with us, Minister Kościński? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u367	Thank you, Member. As far as this room is concerned, I am piloting, somehow managing, although I do not know if I will continue to do so well, because I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u368	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! God bless you! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Minister, I'm glad to see you, because in our circle, we're in a state of anxiety, that maybe you're some fictional character, some creation of the Ministry of Digitalization, you know, some phantom they're showing us on TV. But you've materialized in this room today, so I don't want to lose the opportunity and, first of all, I'd like to know if you, like your current boss, and before that, a younger colleague from BZ WBK in Wrocław, are looking at this perspective without fear and trembling, dark for us, increasing public debt. The Prime Minister said, "We will not hesitate." In his mouth, so I understood, it was supposed to sound like good news. Our hair becomes an oak tree (the bell), I hope you've got one too. . Answer me: Do you, without fear, increase public debt, or maybe with a little fear and trembling? And one last thing, 'cause maybe there won't be another chance. Are you still obsessed with the idea of taking the Poles' cash, or are you over it, Minister? Is it a project of the future, or will the Poles stay penniless, with a plastic card or a chip stuck in it? Answer me that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u369	Thank you very much. We invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I won't be original... You will always be original, sir. Minister! I want to ask how public finances are in Poland today. How are the revenues of the state budget? What's the expense? How's the deficit today? The data that the local authorities present, with insight into the subsidy calculated as a tax derivative, alarms that it is very, but it is very bad. You're with a lot of advisors today. I think that answering this question to the High House will not be a major problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u371	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Fiscal policy is one of the most important of all policies. Supporting people who want to pursue an economic activity who want to be active and, at the same time, encourage them to carry out this activity is particularly important. It is important not to charge them with excessive taxes, because sooner or later it ends badly. You've had the best economic situation in the world for a dozen years. The crisis has come and it turns out that from this economic situation there is virtually nothing left. It's in my opinion, but I guess it wasn't just me, it was creative accounting. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has exposed everything that's going on. This strong pursuit of a balanced budget, which, as we all know, has not been balanced, has also taken place. Minister! I suggest that you fight for your place so that you come to the Sejm more often and that we listen to you more often. The point is that your priorities, which should be the most important in terms of the long-term development of our country, should be the most important, not the short-term political project aimed at elections, for four years or eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u373	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Many years ago the KoLiber Association - such a right-wing Masonry, whose members later become Members, Vice-ministers, of two here I see - organized the Polish action without debt. It was an electronic, online debt counter, which he was very quick to load. Later, other organizations followed in the footsteps of their predecessors. The Civil Development Forum placed a physical counter at the Dmowski Roundabout, which long ago struck 1 trillion PLN. I wanted to ask the Minister: How is this fight about Poland without debt? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u375	Thank you very much. We will soon find out how this is going. And right now, Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the Act on which we are currently proceeding, we read: The need for the Act to enter into force as soon as possible is due to the need to amend the Budget Law for 2020. Did you not think, Minister, that it would be easier to present to the High House this revision of the budget, what money is needed today as to what this law needs to be amended? Because at this stage, we vote blindly. You continue to write: the failure to make the proposed changes makes it impossible to support the economy with additional measures in the event of the outbreak being declared throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. As a result, without the proposed changes, the launch of measures under the crisis shields would have to be compensated for by reducing other expenditure. After all, we have heard that the shields introduced do not involve a change of budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So let me ask you one more time: What do we need to change the budget for? And a request. Self-governments in our homeland cry out to the government: Ladies and gentlemen, lean on us. They offer you many different proposals, and the government, unfortunately, does not respond to these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u377	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Tadeusz Kościński. Come on in. Give it up for your presence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u378	Thank you, Marshal. It's very nice of you to welcome me here. Mr. Limpsza! Thank you so much for your advice. I listened to you a few months ago that you'd need an interpreter to understand me. I think I need an interpreter to understand you. Oh... Mr Braun! I didn't say anywhere that I wanted to rule out cash in Poland. I said I wanted citizens to have the right to pay as they want, either cash or cashless. So this is where the translator is needed. Bravo! We'll hold you to that. There you go, that's my goal. Another reason why I think I should have a translator to translate from my Polish to your Polish and from your Polish to mine. I keep hearing things like disaster, disaster, disaster, how bad it is with this public debt. At the end of 2018, public debt amounted to 43.6% - decrease by more than 8% for eight years. I would remind you that in the European Union the debt to GDP is on average over 80%, so I think that if this is a disaster, then... We have no money, we are bankrupt, and at the end of April there were over 90 billion in state accounts. I don't see where the trouble is. More than 100% 100% or 100% We already have the loan needs completed this year. We have reduced our dependence on foreign investors in terms of Polish debt, from 35% to 27%, so much less is the currency risk. What I'm saying is, what you're saying is, of course, our perspective, but the most important thing is that there's a rule in finance, in the financial sector, that the one who has money decides. Credit rating agencies are probably the most important ones. They assess what we do in Poland. And on March 13, the Moodys rating agency maintained our A2 rating with a stable perspective. On March 27, already in the middle of a pandemic, Fitch maintained our rating Az with a stable perspective. On April 10th, so already really in our deep crisis, Moodys maintained our rating on Az with a stable perspective. I don't think it's bad. As for JST, we've all had, and we're having financial problems this year during this pandemic. And it's a little unfair to compare April this year to April last year, because taxes were shifted, among others. an obligation to pay PIT from the end of April at the end of May as well as CIT. The money that should enter the budget in April will not enter until May. And it's gonna get even. Maybe not for today, but at the end of April, there was 97%. revenues of JST year-to-year. Why aren't we updating the budget today? In order for me, as Minister of Finance, to present a proposal for a new budget to the Council of Ministers, I need to be excused in relation to the SRW. And that's the reason why we're coming to the High Sejm today with the bill to suspend S.R.W. for a year. Then I can propose a new budget, a revision of the budget. It will probably be at the end of June or July, once we know how many taxes have been due, which normally, as I mentioned, came in April. They'll be here by the end of May. We will know how much less taxes are due to the economic crisis, how much taxes there are because the economy is down. Then we'll see how much money it takes to save the economy. And they are needed to start our economy so that it can get out of this crisis very quickly. The questions I haven't answered will be answered by my colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u379	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing this point. I'm declaring a three-minute break. Thank you very much for your kind cooperation. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 34 hrs. 17 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I therefore ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. Your Marshal, would you please turn it on? If your marshal doesn't work, we're cool. It's working now. Please press the button. 436 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the local government in Poland, print No 391. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of local government in Poland (print No 391). I ask you, Members, to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of local government in Poland. 30 years ago, on 27 May 1990, the first democratic elections to communal councils took place. A Day of Territorial Self - Government was established to commemorate that day in 2000. It was held every year on 27 May. The traditions of local government in Poland come from the Constitution on 3 May. The local government also existed in all Polish lands covered by the partitions. After Poland regained its independence, it was also introduced by the March Constitution of 1921. Exterminated in 1950 by Communists and restored only in 1990. The local government has become a basic form of local public life, first at the level of the commune, and since 1999 also at the level of the county and the voivodship. The 1990 reform of local government is one of the most successful changes since 1989. It started the process of decentralisation and implemented the subsidiarity principle. The local communities were then given legal, political and economic characteristics. The monopoly of state ownership and central power system have been broken. 30 years of self-government is a time of development, creation of modern infrastructure and development of entrepreneurship. 30 years of self-government is a time of civic activity. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the legislative initiative taken 30 years ago by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the achievements of all the term of the Polish local government and the achievements of subsequent local governments and voivodeships, expresses appreciation and thanks for this effort for the common good and encourages the construction of the local government community for the next years. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. It's a pity they ruined this government after seven years. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of local government in Poland. The formal proposal was made by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u380	God bless you! Good evening. Miss Marshal Honourable! Rule! High Izbo! Formal request for a break to convene the Convention of Seniors, in order to quickly put an end to the regulation of access to this House, to this House. You're very welcome to stop this show. Under the pretext of fighting the supposed pandemic, the state actually brought the parliamentarianism of the Republic of Poland to façadeism, and behind façadeism you turn into farce is our procession. The members of the Confederate circle simply come to work, because it is our duty, it is a statutory obligation upon us, which we accept, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not avoiding him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u381	Thank you, sir. I understand that this is a re-application in the morning, a recess request. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 206 - for, 229 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on bank loan interest subsidies to ensure liquidity for operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws, print No 390. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted additional reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and certain other laws, - EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The reports shall be printed in No 257-A and 354-A respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the third reading of these draft laws. We would like to return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The additional committee report shall be in print No 365-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u382	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the time of the second reading in the plenary room, one amendment was tabled. The Commission has examined the amendment, the report contains in print No 365-A and recommends that the High House reject the amendment and accept the entire draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u383	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 365. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the only amendment to the article. 1 of the draft amending act, the applicants propose in point 1 (a). b after the mouth. 3b add paragraph. 3c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 84 for, 360 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 365 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 452 - for, 1 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. We are returning to the review of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 364-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u384	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, an additional report in print No 364-A on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on Goods and Services Tax, the Act on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws. Five amendments to this draft law were tabled at the second reading here in the plenary room. After considering these amendments on 27 May, the Commission recommends that the High House adopt all these amendments, except that we propose that amendments 3, 4 and 5 be adopted together. The Commission also asks that the entire High Chamber act be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u385	Thank you very much. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 364. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants propose to add a new amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 402 for, 3 against, 50 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 395 - for, 9 - against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to add a new Article. 7a. Amendments 4 and 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 3 to 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 403 - for, 2 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 364, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 445 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 363. The Commission is presenting a minority proposal that we will be voting on first. In a minority application, the applicant shall propose to add an Article. 8a determining the maximum monthly remuneration of the persons referred to in that provision. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 282 - for, 170 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm's motion for a minority accepted. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 363, along with the amendment adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 426 - for, 3 - against, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on State aid to rescue or restructure entrepreneurs. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 387-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health an additional report by the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. 14 amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill in the plenary room. At its meeting on 27 May, the Commission considered these amendments and recommended that amendment 1 be accepted, the remaining amendments should be rejected, with amendments 2, 3 and 5. - vote jointly, as did amendments 11 and 13. In the course of the examination of the amendments, the applicants withdrew amendment 3. At the same time, I propose, and on behalf of the committee, that the High House adopt the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u387	Thank you. With a formal proposal from Mrs Barbara Nowack before the vote. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You made a good bill. We wanted to support her, we wanted to be able to vote for her, but I don't understand why you're putting in ideology again, why in a good bill that's supposed to help teach doctors, take care of their profession, put in your ideological ideas. The idea of adding a clause of conscience here is above all unethical, it is a limitation of access to knowledge, it is a hit on the right of the patient and there is really no justification. Even if you want to go to ideological wars, you do it at the expense of doctors' rights. These records of yours don't allow us to support this bill. It's a shame. It's a pity that every single thing you do has to spoil at least a little bit that your laws have to be like this. Thank you, Member. Therefore, I ask you, Mrs Marshal, to withdraw this item at the moment from the agenda and to give time to the Members of the PIS to reflect on the removal of ideological records and to carry out a normal, fair bill that will not affect the rights of the patient. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u389	Thank you, Member. We're ahead of the vote on this, so unfortunately, no. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 387. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 12 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law amending amendments to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. In the first amendment to Article. 7 in the added paragraph. 2a applicants propose a different wording of point 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 211 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 16c paragraph. 2 applicants propose not to add point 20. Amendments 3 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 2 to 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 49 - for, 243 - against, 161 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 16ea applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 16m applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 1a-1d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 80 for, against, 234, 139 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 164 - for, 243 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 39. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 10. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 210 for, 244 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 39 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 188 - for, 243 - against, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 53. Amendment 13 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 11 and 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 164 - for, 245 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 53. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 161 - for, 246 - against, 50 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 387 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 265 - for, 185 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Amendments were tabled during the discussion and a request for a third reading of the draft resolution was submitted after delivery of the table of amendments. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution without referring it to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has submitted a draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to join the third reading of the draft resolution in print No 384 after serving the table of amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 Members - for, against - 219, 4 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. The amendments tabled were sent to ladies and gentlemen for print No 384. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 384. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending resolution. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete point 1. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 2nd amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 164 - for, 236 - against, 58 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 18 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 234 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to point 2 of the draft amending resolution, applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph 3. Article 2 31e. The adoption of this amendment will result in the futility of the 4th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 216 - for, 233 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to point 2 of the draft amending resolution, applicants propose to give a new wording to the first sentence of paragraph 1. Article 2 31e. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 217 - for, 235 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment of the new amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 6 and delete paragraph. Article 8 54. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 216 - for, 233 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No. 384, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 443 for, 3 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws (prints No 64, 257 and 257-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna April to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you a report on the work of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, print No 257-A, on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws, print No 64. Yesterday, there was a joint meeting between the two committees... You could say yesterday. ...at which meeting one amendment was considered by the Left Club. Both committees recommend rejecting this amendment and asking the High House to accept it as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u391	Thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 257. The committees present in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 3a point 4b of the Development Policy Law, the applicants propose that the recommendations referred to in that provision should not be binding. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 79 - for, 373 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 257, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 417 - for, 1 - against, 37 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery (prints 268, 354 and 354-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mr Caesar Grabarczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u392	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Only one legislative amendment was tabled to draft Print Law No 268. Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure gave a positive opinion on this amendment and recommends that the High House adopt the law together with the amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u393	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 354. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 applicants propose to amend their references. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 226 - for, 229 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 354 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 444 - for, no one was against, 12 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the GetBack Group, entities offering securities to members of the GetBack Group and audit firms examining the reports of entities forming part of the GetBack Group - reported by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens; - the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General on the investigation of the removal of nearly PLN 3 million from the Polish Red Cross, and in particular the possibility for PiS activists to allocate funds during the election campaign in the elections to the parliament in 2015 and to indicate to what extent they were examined by the prosecution to participate in this case by prominent PiS activists, - the President of the Council of Ministers on the knowledge he had about the irregularities found and the actions being taken in the course of the prosecution's proceedings, as well as the possible links between the perpetrators of the crime and the policies of the PiS, including former or present members of the government - reported by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens; - Information from the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the changes in the justice system - reported by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring Robert Biedron). As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 - for, 235 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the proposal concerning information of the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General and the President of the Council of Ministers on the investigation concerning the removal of nearly PLN 3 million from the Polish Red Cross. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Delivering 3 million PLN from the PCK. 457 Members voted. 221 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information on the implementation of the changes in the justice system. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 221 - for, against - 233, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on bank loan interest subsidies to ensure liquidity for operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws (Prints No. 382, 382-A and 390). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, in plenary, the first reading of the Act on loan interest subsidies in connection with COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws took place. Your marshal, after first reading, addressed the bill to the Committee on Public Finance. The Committee on Public Finance for many hours, we have completed our work at hours. Four in the morning, she was looking at the project. Several dozen amendments were tabled to the project. Some 40 amendments have been adopted in this law. These included mainly clarification, ordering and clarifying provisions that support entrepreneurs, but also provisions that regulate life in a pandemic period, among others. Also, in addition to interest rates, the loan interest subsidies, the Restructuring Law, which we change for COVID and the coming years after, to protect Polish companies of strategic importance from taking over by companies outside the European Union by capital from outside the European Union. This is, you can say, another shield, a shield called 4.0. The cost, which has been converted, necessary for the implementation of this law, relating to the interest rate on loans, is estimated at about PLN 700 million. On the other hand, the solutions that are proposed in other provisions of the Act will, of course, also have budgetary costs, but also, above all, organisational costs. It's also job protection. The previous records of individual anti-crisis shields have made Poland one of the leaders of job protection in Europe and a very difficult situation which is linked to the outbreak has not significantly affected unemployment, as in other European countries. The funds, which according to the Minister of Development, were transferred to Polish entrepreneurs, especially through the Polish Development Fund, as loans in the part of the frozen to protect jobs, already exceed PLN 30 billion. Hence, it is clear that many entrepreneurs leave their employees using various forms of funding. During the discussion of this law, there was a discussion about solutions introduced in the field of e.g. remote court work, interrogation of witnesses, prosecution's work. Such activities should also be carried out, hence, among others. such records in the codes have appeared. Although, of course, the greatest discussions raised not so much content and solutions, but above all the forms of code changes. We felt that the importance of issues and the urgency of solutions in code changes were more important than keeping the full procedure, so the committee also accepted these solutions. Finally, the committee presents to the High House a draft law on bank loan interest payments to ensure the liquidity of operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on amending certain other laws, the report is contained in print No 390, and proposes that this law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u395	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to the report on the work of the Committee on Public Finances on printing No 382, which includes a draft act on bank loan interest subsidies to provide liquidity to entrepreneurs affected by the COVID. I would like to say that in the club speeches, when we examined this project, there was such an accusation that it was too little help that the government's allocation of 567 600 thousand. PLN will not significantly secure the aid expected by entrepreneurs. According to the Information Centre of the Government, this aid can generate loans for revolving and non-renewable loans needed for the refinancing of already existing loans of entrepreneurs for tens of billions of PLN. Interest payments secured by the clause entered in this Act for small... Subsistence, 2% surcharge for micro-entrepreneurs and 1% while maintaining the average interest rate as a reference used in individual banks, which will enter into an agreement at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for such loans... So we've got some serious security here. I would also like to say that the government can afford such action, because the situation of public finances after the first quarter and after April gives full power to dispose of further money in the field of business support. Ladies and gentlemen, we would actually have a balanced budget after April on the revenue and expenditure side, if it had not been for the additional expenditure this year. In the first quarter it was PLN 9.4 billion and PLN 18.9 billion after April. So the government in a very responsible, balanced way directs the aid all the time, but also receives support from other institutions. Please note that the Monetary Policy Council has courageously lowered interest rates by giving breath in the repayment of mortgage and consumer loans. We have 163.5 billion PLN of consumer loans in Poland and today is another third after March and April, the May interest rate reduction. Please note that Poland is currently a beneficiary of own currency. How many times have we talked about whether it's worth adopting the euro or not? We have our own monetary policy, an excellent tool used by wise people in a courageous, flexible way. In fact, analysts did not expect this reduction, and it will cause those in debt in credit cards, in savings and settlement accounts, to become beneficiaries of such monetary policy once again. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, many amendments to the bill have been tabled. I would like to thank all those who have seen the numerous proposals also made by the Law and Justice Club, by me. As time passed, this discussion was increasingly substantive and many amendments were supported because they are pro-business. In fact, they reduce typically administrative provisions, simplify procedures for reaching for aid from the shield. The shield is in good hands. There were also comments about the fact that we were constantly changing the rules. However, this is indispensable with such a thicket of rules that have been used to generate public aid. The correction is something legitimate. We can't be mad at her. This correction is something simply permanent, just like all the rules on the economic sphere, banking needs to be corrected, and so these have been corrected and this is an endless process. I think that the issue of further aid proposals will also be presented in this House, and to prove the words that this process is a lasting process, I am presenting further amendments to the Law and Justice Club (The Bell) which I am handing over to Marshal Ryszard Terletki to work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u397	Thank you very much. Please, now Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u398	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! Dear Mr Janczyk has made a great summation of the 4.0 shield. He said it was a thicket of rules that were constantly being corrected. This is actually how the government's legislative action can be summarised in the last two months. Indeed, we get every 2 weeks, every 10 days, every 3 weeks successive legal acts, which are mainly devoted to the improvement of previous legal acts. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I must say that if you use the name "tarcza" in relation to this document, it is a name strongly for growth. I would say it's rather a lid that, when it comes to the impact on the situation of companies, will probably not have any special effects. You were also gracious to say that it is great that we have our own currency, we are all happy about it, because the National Bank of Poland has lowered interest rates to 0.1. If we're gonna say it outrageously... Savings... ...they've been in the euro area, we've had zero interest rates for five years now, but that's by the way. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, 24 hours ago, we critically judged the government project for several fundamental reasons. First of all, because we are once again receiving a proposal for a legislative act of almost 100 pages, which only in a small part concerns interest payments for corporate loans, and in a large part constitutes such a provocative proposal for amendments to various legal acts, often having absolutely nothing to do with the COVID-19 epidemic. Let me give you one example. Within the framework of these amendments, which were voted out, we had e.g. the amendment concerning the remuneration of the members of the National Pedophilia Commission, which was to be set up last year by the Prime Minister, but has not been set up so far. It was filled with such records that seemed like such a concert of wishes of individual resorts. As a result, we received a kind of peas with cabbage and even members of the governing party yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, when we worked on this law, they did not really have an indication of the direction in which these changes were actually going and why the various provisions of this law were in the main project at all. I must say that the main charge that we have put in the case of this law, that it is being prosecuted too quickly, that it is prepared on the knee, in a sloppy manner, was documented yesterday and confirmed, even if such a fact that the analysis office, sorry, the legal office, the Legal Office of the Sejm reported, no longer remember, several dozen or even more amendments to this text. I'd like to thank the lawyers at the Legislature Bureau from here because they did a really great job. At the same time, they revealed how carelessly, how unprofessionally, how amateurly this law was prepared. An additional proof that it was a bubble that came to us was the fact that Members of Law and Justice made further amendments yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, with over 60 or 70 amendments. Mr President told us to work on this without giving practically any time to get acquainted with these amendments in some meaningful way. Once again from this stand, I would like to say that we are strongly protesting against this form and this mode of operation of the Sejm. I would also ask your Marshal to hand over our outrage to you by the way in which you treat the Sejm, the legislative chamber in our country, throwing us draft laws and giving us 24 hours to deal with these rights. We cannot expect positive results when it comes to combating pandemics and the effects of the crisis, we cannot expect everyone to be happy when these legislations are being prepared on their knees. I would therefore like to inform you, Mr. Marshal, that the Civic Coalition Club will amend this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are a lot of these amendments because we thought that we would take the last attempt to improve this bill. I would like to present these amendments to you and once again call for us to proceed in a way that simply allows us to respect the Sejm and will prove that this House simply deserves the trust of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u399	Thank you. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u400	High Izbo! A few weeks ago, it was fashionable, also here, to record videos on which politicians clapped. You clapped Minister Szumowski, clapped Marshal Kidawa, clapped various politicians of the ruling party. They wanted to express their respect for the nurses, for the medical recorders. I must admit that I did not take part in this action because I felt that we politicians were the last group to be involved, because on our part we did not need applause, just decent salaries in the budget, not applause, just good equipment, not applause, just safe conditions and decent work. And without that, without real action, those applause just sounded false. Why am I talking about this today, ladies and gentlemen? Because today this government clapping is over and the government is hitting the exact same budget workers. These people today, the government wants to cut their wages. Today, these people are threatened by the government. Today at the expense of these people, as somebody put it from government benches yesterday, I quote, "We're gonna save ourselves." Ladies and gentlemen! If hundreds of black bags with corpses are not being removed from these Polish hospitals today, it is not due to either the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister or Minister Szumowski, but it is thanks to people who often work for a penny for the Polish state: medical rescuers, nurses, but also employees of the National Health Fund, health care professionals and private officials, Madam Prime Minister. It is thanks to them that Poland has not collapsed, and today you threaten them with dismissals, today you threaten them with a reduction in their salary. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you have for these people? You have arrogance for them, which was seen in the statements of the Minister of Labour, who said that if someone didn't get a parking lot, they could go to court. For trade workers, for couriers, for logistics workers you have a reduction in your salary for the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, the coalition club of the Left, as I have already announced, will not raise his hand by hitting the workers. We've proposed to remove these anti-work regulations. We have heard that these amendments will be rejected. We have also once again heard lies that these solutions are supposed to be supported by the union side. I have to say, my phone got boiled last night by calls from union workers asking me if I know who's supposed to support it, because they don't know any union guy who'd be in favor of cutting off a salary that'd be behind this bill. I've been looking and I haven't found it. In order not to be literal, ladies and gentlemen, three opinions. Biggest relationships. The Polish Trade Union Agreement: This project was designed for employers only, with the aim of guaranteeing benefits exclusively for business. This is a disruption of the relationship between work and capital, not only grossly unfair, but also threatening the long-term persistence of the socio-economic crisis. We find it particularly unfavorable to see redundancies in the subsequent public finance sector, lower benefits for redundant workers, suspension of occupational labour law, abolition of social benefits. There's no consent from the OPZZ. Second relationship, smaller, Employee Initiative: Records resulting from the shield design show that the PiS hits the interests of employees. The methods used by the government are nothing more than a copy-paste action from the time when the Polish Platform ruled. End of quote. Finally, the relationship that seems to be close to you should be the NSZZ Solidarity: the Bureau of the National Commission expresses a strong protest against the article. 58th Bill. This proposal is completely unacceptable for.Solidarity. It is unacceptable that the price of halting the deteriorating situation of the state budget should be borne by those employed in the field of public finances. End of quote. There's nothing we can do about that, ladies and gentlemen. If you're rejecting the amendments that would remove these bad, anti-work laws, then this bill just needs to be thrown out. So that's what we're gonna do. Ladies and gentlemen, stop lying, apologize to the union and just withdraw these anti-work laws. And if the mail overloaded by Mr Sasin does not work well and the opinions of the trade unions, the OPZZ-tu and the Solidaritys did not reach the government, I have it printed here for you and I am hereby handing it over to Prime Minister Emilewicz, encouraging her to read. [[Applause]] Why did the Prime Minister lie?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u401	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ministers! Presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the report of the committee on the government draft law on bank loan interest subsidies granted for providing liquidity to entrepreneurs affected by COVID-19, I will start by quoting several figures to the High House. According to today's BCC data 48%, 46% companies only received any assistance within the framework of their previous shields, 30% companies received only aid from PFR, 40% companies that have applied for aid have not even received a decision to this day. From the next, fourth shield of the anti-crisis government, today it is difficult not to get this impression, a white flag emerges, a white flag of the government of the United Right. These outrageous records of helping those who remain unemployed prove it best. The chairman of my party, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, very often tries to move the saying known in the medical nomenclature: better prevention than cure. This prevention, Prime Minister, in the previous three shields and this fourth one, is not very clear. It is better to save smaller, small, micro-enterprises and larger ones than today to cure the effects or in a few weeks' time, a few months from now, to cure the effects of rising unemployment. As the Polish Coalition, we are extremely surprised at what you have been reluctant to do for a few weeks now when we are looking at the next shields in this House, the project of the Polish Coalition, a voluntary ZUS project. This is a solution that would cure before the disease comes in the form of a massive increase in unemployment and an avalanche increase in the number of people who are unemployed or at risk of unemployment. We are surprised at you as the Polish Coalition, with which you were reluctant to approach the idea that we reported, a generous liquidity fund, a fund that would save many companies from the decision to fire employees. High Izbo! Speaking of a voluntary ZUS project, which is extremely well done by entrepreneurs, and those micro-, and large, received, today one must say that in a few days the exemption from the ZUS, which you have guaranteed to entrepreneurs only for 3 months, ends. Prime Minister, what's next? What's next? It is precisely this burden of any economic activity that the contribution to the Social Security Office can be crucial when deciding on dismissals of employees. Today is really the time to prevent before the result comes and needs to be treated. We would very much ask you to pay attention to it in this way. As a coalition, of course. Poland also, for the fourth time, although already slightly abandoned, is open to talking about good solutions within these shields. And I will allow myself a package of several proposals from our club, hoping that maybe not up to three times the charm, but up to four times the charm, and we can talk about good solutions together, without dividing this House into the better ones and the worse ones, who also have something to say about combating the effects of coritotus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u403	Thank you. Now Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u404	God bless you! Good evening. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Law of Izbo! Behind memory - corrections. 45 amendments to the Confederate wheel. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Yes, sir. If we don't applaud each other, who's gonna be thrilled that you're gonna throw them in the trash? There'll probably be a marshal here with such an invention to block the right ones, the wrong ones. That's how it's gonna be. But we do our homework, come here to work, contracted by the people for the Republic of Poland, write, submit, vote. Between the hammer and the aisle, between Scylla and Charybda, between creative accounting specialists and the rolling of public debt. Prime Minister! I'm so glad you're honoring us with your presence. I understand that today a big helicopter with big money will be gone, so the Prime Minister has time to listen to us here. On the other hand, I don't know if it's a hammer or an anvil. Mr Zandberg! I'm worried about you because really hypoxia for a long time can cause problems. The Pandemic will return in the fall, and then what will we do without you? This mask, one of the last ones here in this House, is exactly where it fits, because this is where the debt is rolled, and here's another perspective. It's just a robbery, a gangster movie, isn't it? Give me your wallets, Poles. The Left will know better how to spend your money. Well, there's got to be some way between these Confederate extremists. We're trying to find the substance. A real Polish center. A rational center. We beg you, do not help any more, do not increase the size of this socio-economic disaster, in which, under the pretext of fighting a supposed pandemic, in which Mr Zandberg still believes, you have brought less help to the Republic of Poland, provided, ladies and gentlemen, that you return from this path, which leads, of course, to a abyss, leads to a hostile takeover of the debts of the Republic of Poland, if the public debt is indeed enlarged indefinitely, as Prime Minister Morawiecki has announced to us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u405	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki will use the rest of the time, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's the end of May. The end of May means that the epidemic in China lasts 5 months, in the world - 4 months, in Poland - 3 months. And we have a fourth shield, we have a conflicting policy of Minister Szumowski, who first announced in February that there was no problem at all, we are well prepared, then there were frightened and stupid steps in the style of closing parks and forests, then we have an increase in diseases and despite this increase in defrosting diseases. Or what? Because the polls. The polls caught up with you, and the tiredness of your compatriots quarantined you. You have no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't have any, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't own it because you listen. Discredited WHO, the World Health Organization, which once says: masks don't wear, the second day says: masks wear. And you, like these rams, obey what they tell you to do. You don't have a plan, because if you had a plan, you wouldn't be acting under the dictation of global organizations or polls that tell you today: you have to defrost everything in panic because the nation was outraged. Because the nation is outraged, as President Duda sees it crowding and hugging the localities in Poland, and the hunting pilgrimage is arrested. That is the truth about the hypocrisy you represent. And that's also what the Christian public in our country sees. And a fourth shield. Two months ago, Krzysztof Bosak, from this speaker, called for relief for borrowers to charge financial institutions, and you went after the fourth shield for reason and whatever you were doing. You don't have the idea of running the state, you haven't made a strong state in five years, and that's the truth. And this country in crisis today, this crisis is unfortunately deepened by the fact that power is governed by weak and inefficient. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u407	Mr Jadwiga Emilewicz, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I just wanted to make a formal remark. I very much regret that Mr Braun has only noticed me today. I understand that my size is not very significant, but I am always present at every meeting of the Sejm, where the draft law I am preparing is presented, and I am always present, and I always answer questions, what's more, I also participate in committee meetings and in committee meetings. But it's not true about relationships. That's not true. In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal, after the Prime Minister's statement... But in answer to the questions and doubts that have arisen, first of all I would like to thank the committee for its hard work on this bill, which, yes, I agree, was not simple, was not short, was demanding, but certainly needed. I will answer questions about complexity, complexity or another edition of the economic shield, why there is another one, why we did not prepare a complete, complete project immediately. Yes, Mr President, we will all agree that we would like to create a complete legislative architecture addressing all the needs of all the victims, all the needs related to the epidemic that started in Poland on 13 March. This is what we would like to do, and probably already after 2.5 months, we would have solutions ready for both micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, public sector workers and large companies that have lost liquidity. Already today, after two and a half months, we'd have solutions. Only what would you say then, then what would be the response of the Members who are accusing us of legislative imperfection today? All of these 1.5 million companies, which have already received aid and which have remained on the market thanks to it. All these hundreds of thousands of jobs that are still on the market today, and which, probably because of this excellent legislation developed over the next few months, would simply not have gotten and would have just been another registered unemployed today. We chose a path that was a fast path that required extremely hard work on the side not only of the administration but also of the state. And I think it paid off together, paid off to the Polish market and Polish workers. And for this I thank you very warmly, admitting that all the solutions were certainly not perfect, admitting that we had to improve them. But we've decided on this legislative initiative because it's the first time we've... The government has decided for the first time since 1989 to act so aggressively and actively on the financial market, comparable to those used in the United States or the Eurozone Member mentioned, but never unused and never used in Poland. Let us remind you that in 2009, during the last crisis, the Polish government at that time proposed a rather modest package of support for the economy, far too small, given the scale of the crisis at that time. It was then justified that a more ambitious package would result in a crisis in the Polish currency market, a rise in inflation and a loss of credibility. That is why we have come out of that crisis much longer. And that's why after the crisis, many more people registered in the unemployment register. But then, I think, Mr, the professor did not speak in such a way, he did not have that opinion. And I would just like to remind you that today it is already over 55 billion PLN, which have been placed on the market, in the economy, in large, small and medium-sized enterprises, thus maintaining jobs. The Member mentioned that 30% the economic operators have not yet received the aid. Instead of printing cards, you'd better transfer the money. Yeah, we're doing everything we can to make sure that all those who qualify for this help get this help. Therefore, the financial shield operates, based on statements, exemption from the Social Security Office is granted on the basis of a declaration. That is why we have simplified many elements, now they are based on simple forms that make this help really happen as fast as possible. And where it's impossible, we try to simplify procedures. The Member mentioned today's interest rate reduction, but at the same time you compared it to the fact that if we were in the euro area, it would be zero. Would we then like to have an Italian or Spanish situation, sir? What about German? And I think we'd like German. I don't think we'd want to be in a situation like this, in a state like this. It's a lack of reaction. In answer to this, once again clarifying the doubts that have arisen here in terms of protecting the labour market, I will repeat, Mr President, that these actions that we are taking in each of our laws are in order to keep jobs. If we hadn't responded at all if we hadn't allowed parking, if we hadn't allowed businesses to reduce their working time, then we would have been passively looking at (the bell), just as the Spanish government is passively looking at 3,000 today. firing in Nissan, Barcelona, without doing anything for the last three months. And then, of course, we could say: we do not allow, we could say: we do not give entrepreneurs the opportunity to be able to bear the cost of the crisis, keeping jobs, while transferring a little of these costs to workers. And how many layoffs are there here in Poland? We give a solution which, as I repeat, allows jobs to be maintained, reducing salaries, but at the same time giving hope that these jobs will be maintained, and giving the chance to pay the salary with the support of the state budget. Thank you, Prime Minister. How can you act in favour of... How can this package be called an anti-worker package? This is the situation where we are taking action to save jobs. So thanking you for this huge work today until the early morning hours, once again I ask the High House to accept this project, because employees, employers and local governments are waiting for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u409	Mr Grzegorz Braun was corrected because his name was mentioned. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u410	Thank you very much, Marshal, yes, in correction mode. Prime Minister! But I am not letting you out of my sight, and I am following closely your activity, which I believe leads you - in a larger group - on a straight path before the Court of State. Sir, but this is... And if in the Republic of Poland we restore the traditional understanding of the national interest and the reason of the state, then what you have done in recent months to the company with Mr. Marshal and the more widely understood Bureau of the Sejm, it is a criminal. And I hope you don't miss it. Although there may be extenuating circumstances if the distribution of virtual money from a large helicopter is somehow mitigated, limited. I hope you will come to your senses, free yourselves... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk is now being corrected. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I didn't respond to your threats because you're funny enough not to do it, Mr. Braun. Mr. Marshal, please don't comment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! It was 1/3 of entrepreneurs who received help from PFR, only 1/3. No: 30% they didn't receive, only 2/3 didn't receive. On the other hand, in general, the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers and Prime Minister I would recommend reading the data, fresh, because today published by the Business Centre Club, because there are really many interesting trends there. I understand that these are not trends that will put the government in a particularly positive light, but it is also worth sometimes getting acquainted with and with critical insights. Again, only one third of entrepreneurs have benefited from the PFR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u412	Thank you. Mr Zandberg, who was not mentioned, seems to me, but also wants to correct it. I think it's hard to say I haven't been replaced. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u413	Two sentences. You scratched a false alternative: either you can do what you can do, or you can cut salaries, or you can do nothing. And you suggested that the Left would prefer to do nothing. That's not true. We think you're doing too little. We have proposed specific laws, modelled on the Danish solutions, with subsidies to ensure that the salary is maintained. This is possible at today's cost of handling foreign debt. You haven't decided to accept the solutions we've brought you. Prime Minister! Don't talk about other countries and layoffs. Finally, tell me how many redundancies there are in Poland today, how many collective redundancies there are already at this point, because trade unions have been looking forward to fair and undamaged information on this subject for weeks. And the wave of group redundancies in many industries just goes. So about the layoffs, Prime Minister, really, who likes who, but you shouldn't talk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u414	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Questions, Mr. Marshal? We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of State Assets, Jacek Sasin (prints 375 and 385). I would ask the representative of Boris Budka's applicants to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u415	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, not even Mr Moravian Prime Minister. No wonder he doesn't come to defend the disgraced minister Sasin. [[Applause]] I'm not surprised, because it's a huge shame to have someone like that in the government. I regret that I cannot look the Minister straight in the eye, asking him directly whether he is ashamed of what he has done, whether he is ashamed of how he threw more than 70 million PLN into the mud. Do you have any idea what this money might have been for? That's a minimum wage for over 26,000. people who have lost their jobs. It's a parking fee for over 33,000. employees. That's 138 grand. Coronavirus tests for health care professionals or education. [[Applause]] These are 850 ventilators, which could be found in Polish hospitals. That's over 1,600 grand. masks - but it's at this overpriced price from Mr. Szumowski's colleague, [[Applause]] 'Cause at a normal price, it would be 17 million masks. Ladies and gentlemen! But what did the PiS government prefer to do? What did the PiS government prefer to do with the hands of Minister Sasin? He'd rather spend that $70 million on pseudophonies. He preferred to use it for something that didn't happen. Moreover, he wanted to do so at your expense, at the expense of your health and life, at the expense of the health and life of those who would deliver these packages, at the expense of the postmen, at the expense of the members of the regional electoral committees. It didn't happen, but we still don't know where those cards are. I promise, Minister, we'll help you find those 30 million cards. Do you know why? Because in this bill, you wrote down that you could go to jail for losing one card for three years. And we're gonna save you. Instead of 90 million years in prison, you'll only answer [[Applause]] for exceeding the rights and for causing damage to property, and for that, you go to prison for a few years. It can't even be spent on scrap metal. Do you know how many trees you've cut out? Almost 30,000. trees, just to carry out these pseudophonies. Disgraceful! But Minister Sasin has many such achievements. He is, as some say, like the proverbial King Midas, but the other way: what he will not take, then... Oh, I'm not gonna tell you what it's turning into. [[Applause]] He wanted to be president of Warsaw. It didn't work out. He wanted to be a Warsaw Metropolitan, he held a referendum. It didn't work out. The aid for Poles for electricity was to be made. It didn't work out, it didn't pay, and the electricity went up. They were supposed to be successful in mining. I invite you to Silesia, to the mine that you want the Prime Minister to oversee, and in which there are outbreaks of coronavirus, because you preferred to take care of the elections. [[Applause]] And I am glad that Prime Minister Morawiecki came because now, Prime Minister, not as Prime Minister, not even as Economic Advisor to Donald Tusk - I am talking to you as a former banker. What would you say to your superiors in Ireland or Spain when they supervised your business in the bank if you caused losses of PLN 30 billion? Do you know what these losses are, ladies and gentlemen? Shame! During the 6 months of the supervision of Minister Sasin over the companies of the Treasury, 13 key listed companies in the Treasury shareholder lost PLN 31 billion. Scandal! The wealth of Polish taxpayers in companies supervised by Mr Sasin is less valuable. Disgraceful! That $70 million is such a big deal. Prime Minister! Are you taking the fall for this? Because Prime Minister Sasin is defending himself today. He says he didn't make those decisions, it's you. I hear you ordered the post office to print those ballots. So I ask, will you defend Mr Sasin today by sacrificing Prime Minister Morawiecki? How about President Duda? 'Cause unless I'm mistaken, the eighth, Friday, after a big meeting in Novgorodska, the ninth, you went to the PiS leadership group. Just to the Presidential Palace. How about you sacrifice Prime Minister Gowin, who kept his word to me, caused the election not to take place in May? So now all of a sudden you're blaming someone else? Make up your mind. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a gigantic embarrassment. But this is a question of honesty, it is a question of whether you will finally begin to bear the consequences of spending the money of Polish taxpayers with impunity. [[Applause]] This is the theft that so often... You stole $70 million from taxpayers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And for that, the Prime Minister should resign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u416	I now ask Mr Mark Suski to present the opinion of the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Oh, my God. Keep your voice
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Thank you very much for the applause of the opposition. I have the honour to present a report on the meeting... Shame. Shame on you, indeed, for what you're doing. To Sasin. I have the honour to present a report to the Treasury Committee on this proposal, which has been tabled on the appeal of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin. Although the word "honor" in relation to what was going on in this committee seems to be a big exaggeration - rather a report on an outrageous, political, unjustified proposal... 70 million. 60 billion more. ...which was submitted by Mr. Boris Budka. But as rapporteur - in fact, time is very short - I have a duty to present not only the result of the vote... There's nothing to say here. That's enough. ...but also in some sense at least part of the discussion and even the atmosphere of the committee meeting. I will start by saying that Mr Boris Budka came to the meeting, started to present a proposal and said that he would limit himself to only one aspect, which is the issue of elections, which unfortunately were not organised. You can talk about Sasina's stupidity for 10 hours. He accused the Prime Minister that, in accordance with the constitution, on the basis of a law passed by the majority of the Sejm which obliged him to prepare the elections, he prepared these elections. This was the first scandal: Prime Minister Jacek Sasin prepared elections in accordance with constitutional requirements. When was the election? Was it the election or not? On what grounds? But after a few minutes, after two or three minutes, the Member interrupted and began to argue with one of the Members and reprimanded him. I said, "What's going on?" What do you mean? Here, the Member speaks impudently on the phone instead of listening to the eloquent speech of the providential statesman who had his life speech. Don't go down. This is how you treat people: when Boris Budek speaks, I don't think you can even breathe without consent. Mr. Chairman, would you please... This is a report. I'm just telling you what it looked like. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] To the point, about Sasin now. After that, after the next two minutes, Prime Minister Jacek Sasin responded to all these allegations by simply presenting the state of law and what it looked like. Crushed by the argument, Mr. Boris Budek ran off the committee... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's no way to defend it, Marcus. ...Leaving his army without command, you can say, on the battlefield, losing the battle because this battle was lost. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Trying to kill us with laughter. Ladies and gentlemen! There were various charges. Firstly, that the elections were prepared. And the second charge? That the election wasn't there. There were allegations that... Was it or wasn't it? We have just heard here that the Prime Minister was not involved in the fight against COVID and there was a plague in Mazowsze. Indeed, you have the divine qualities of the Prime Minister, because if he did, it wouldn't be a pandemic. But he probably had devilish qualities, too, because as soon as he started printing these deadly envelopes, the pandemic broke out. You might say, hypocriticalness bordering on passing by logic. [[Game in the O.R.]] So what do you say? Were those choices or not? Of course, you are disturbing the truth in the eyes of the circle, but, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, this bill for the missed election should pay the Senate... Yes, sir! Sasin from Moravian. ...and should pay the local government, [[Applause]] Who, ladies and gentlemen, even refused to place urns in this election. This is how your self-governments signed up, destroying Polish democracy, because it could be said that it was the destruction of Polish democracy. You've completely destroyed it. Ladies and gentlemen! That conclusion was indeed outrageous... There it is. It is, and you have a chance to take it. ...and completely unjustified, and Mr. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin and the companies he was subject to... [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] And his company. No, the companies that were subject to the asset minister. It is no secret that the Treasury companies are subject to the Minister. They transferred huge amounts, millions just to fight the coronavirus, and your self-governments thanked Kosiniak-Kamish for this money. This is hypocrisy. Antonov's here. Antonov masks. Ladies and gentlemen! Nearly four hours in such a friendly atmosphere as it is here, there was a committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was a vote: 17 to 12, which shows... That you have most in the Seym, fantastic. ...that even part of the opposition thought that this proposal was curial and completely unjustified. I recommend, on behalf of the committee, that this request be rejected [[Applause]] as an outrageous, political, and throwing your guilt into the prime minister who wanted to... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He meant well, and it worked out the way it always did. ...to keep the Constitution in Poland, and you have thwarted it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] So he's a mess. It's time to retire.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u418	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Wojciech Zubowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the motion for a vote of distrust towards Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, let us add: the most psychic proposal that has come up recently, based solely on media reports and taken from the context fragments of speeches. Documents, documents. In the explanatory memorandum, the Civic Coalition clearly states that the danger of organising elections and voting has only protected citizens from clear and firm social opposition and consistent opposition work. So we now know to whom we can owe the fact that these elections did not take place at that time. 'Cause you guys are a mess. However, it is well known that opposition to the election on May 10 was dictated by the willingness to switch candidates. If it hadn't been for that, the opposition would have been a mess, and you're just pushing it back in time. The discovery of a pussy, really, has nothing to do with it. Sir, take it easy. This proposal did not arise in connection with the preparation of the Polish Post for the delivery of electoral packages to citizens and their transfer to the State Election Commission, but because Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin proved to be effective as Minister of State Assets. Oh, Jesus! Now, instead of focusing on combating the effects of the epidemic, the Civic Platform wants to continue to destabilize the situation. Oh, Jesus! This is where the request comes in. If you can't help, because I know you can't, at least try not to disturb those who know how to do it. Sasin knew. You've made this request because you're trying to distract me from the fact that you didn't get the President of the Republic elected. Contrary to the facts, you lie to Poles that Polish Post and the State Security Printing Works organized elections on 10 May. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Then quit. So what, winning? Ladies and gentlemen, you will not shout the truth. Mr President, don't yell, you're not in your own house. You're in the Seym. You have to behave decently. You're not at your place at the diner. And these were to be carried out by the State Election Commission, to which the post office was supposed to deliver the election packages filled by the citizens... Truth in the eyes of the circle. ...as part of the correspondence vote, which is nothing new in the Polish legal system. That is not enough, after all, you have requested an extension of these solutions. This solution is effectively applied in other countries. Although in this case the main challenge was scale, the post office was ready to perform this operation. The best people you've ever thrown into defense. It is obvious that, since the bill was talking about making correspondence choices, appropriate preparations had to be made. This would of course not be possible during your reigns, because the Polish Post Office was in ruins. Then it was the correspondence from the courts that citizens had to receive from public toilets, funeral establishments, and grocery stores. You're annoyed... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sir, take it easy. Mr President, you are intruding now. Do you want me to formally draw your attention? If you were at the committee meeting, if Mr Budka hadn't escaped, you might have had answers to these questions. It annoys you that we were right when we took remedial action, strengthening the position of the Treasury companies. Thanks to effective ownership policy, the entities supervised by the Deputy Prime Minister have successfully and quickly joined the fight against the epidemic. And here are some examples. More than PLN 173 million of financial support was allocated to the purchase of medical and protective equipment for hospitals, DPSs, laboratories. [[Applause]] Antonov, masks from Antonov. Let's remind you that some of the lab health services have been wiped out by you. Massive logistical operations have been carried out to deliver these materials to the needy centres. The means of disinfection were produced and made available at market prices. The companies also provided in-kind support. For these actions, respect and thanks are due for the involvement of employees. If not for them, the epidemic in Poland could take on catastrophic proportions comparable to those in France or Italy. We have one of the lowest rates of epidemic deaths in Europe, but it didn't come out of nowhere, ladies and gentlemen, it has helped keep it at this low level. It shows that capital has nationality and that it is uncomfortable for you. Turns out you can be effective in situations where you failed. Let us remind you that over the years, you have justified your policies by the 2008 crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, just to remind you, when the crisis broke out in 2008, you had only introduced a law to help combat its effects in July 2009. Following your course of action, any shield we would adopt in spring 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that it is effective to fight for Polish interests, which also dislikes Russian energy companies, so graciously treated in your time, of course at the expense of Polish taxpayers. Russian coal. Sasin Russian coal buys. What are you saying? During the last six months, when Mr Jacek Sasin was Minister of State Assets, PGNiG won a dispute with Gazprom, so we are to recover over PLN 6 billion. The judgment of the Court of Arbitration in Stockholm amended the price formula used to determine the price in the Yamal contract. Orlen and Energa joined together to form a Polish energy company of European scale. In addition, during the reign of the current opposition, presidents were offered over the limits of common sense and the decency of million briefings. Shockingly high gratifications were received even by the presidents of those companies who were in financial difficulties. We cut down these pay chimneys, we kept our word, managers' salaries depend on the company's financial results. Ladies and gentlemen, the current actions show the true intentions of the Civic Coalition, which wants to appeal the Deputy Prime Minister to strengthen the position of national enterprises, a minister who opposes foreign influences in the energy sector and builds Poland's independence on the international stage. Whose business are you in? I'm almost done, Marshal. That coal from where? That is why we are calling for the rejection of this senseless proposal to conceal the opposition's responsibility for the absence of the presidential election on 10 May... This is your embarrassment. ...which you blocked because the exchange of the candidate was more important to you than the constitution you so often rely on. [[Applause]] We call for rejection because you want to dismiss a minister who, unlike some opposition politicians at the time of the outbreak, did not escape to L4, but faced the challenge of running companies through this difficult period. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And he did it with success. Thank you. [[Applause]] It wasn't a good debut.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u420	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I hope you're pulling this motion because it's completely pointless. The atmosphere after my predecessor's speech is very cheerful. So many merry things to say at one moment, at one time... Wonderful. And not true. Oh, maybe to be cheerful, so sad, so tragic. In the late '70s and early '80s. Wojciech Młynarski wrote a great song: What else is there to screw up, gentlemen? What else would it be? [[Applause]] Oh... Sasin. It was a song that criticized the Communists of the Gierek era, the beginnings of Jaruzelski. It's up-to-date. But I don't think Mlynarski predicted that there would be a time when there would be a government of PiS and there would be a world champion from screwing up like Prime Minister Sasin. Boris Budka. I will not repeat what Mr Boris Budka has already said about pseudo-elections, correspondence voting. Today, Mr Kierwiński and Mr Tomczyk showed that if all the electoral packages that were printed were to be placed on one side of the other, the so-called. Sasina tower would be 29.7 km. Prime Minister Sasin, who unfortunately isn't here, and I wanted to say it to his face... He's in quarantine. There it is, sir. It's remote. He listens to us. He's listening. ...I wanted to make a bill. Three sheets of A4 paper are approx. 7 gr - price from an hour ago from Ceneo. It's a commercial. $12.9 for a paper rhyme. Three A4 envelopes - the price found on Allegro, everything you can - is 9 gr per piece. It's the commercial again. How much do they pay you for this ad? So for the cards we have 2 176 200 zlotys, for three envelopes in a 30 million package - 7 920 000 zlotys. Total: 10 096 200. So where's 59 million? I'm at my friends'. That's how much it cost to print? Every student knows that without a discount for one copy A4 will pay 5 gr. If we add these 90 million copies, that's 4.5 million. We're still 55.5 million short. Two minutes and 14 seconds. If you can hear me, Prime Minister Sasin, I would like to ask, have you recently met a ski instructor? [[Applause]] Okay, Jarek. Just don't steal. And that's the fortune. Here, Prime Minister Sasin, you screamed from this speaker that the property of Prime Minister Moravian's wife would be revealed. At the time, we told you that this bill you were watching contains constitutional errors and ends up in the courtroom. And she ended up in the grandstand. In addition to Mr Morawiecki's wife's problem, we still have a problem with Mrs Szumowska. Don't pick on women here. He steals for his wife. You know, it looks like it's not us, it's your wives you're picking on. I wonder if there will be no trouble with Mrs Sasin in a moment, because the problems with Mr Sasin's estate statement have come to CBA. I haven't heard this case is over, Minister. And this is really serious because our wives are jealous. They want us to prescribe our assets for them, too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then ask Petru. What else would it be, gentlemen, what else would it be? It's like the anti-Midas that Mr Budek was talking about. And I've made an extension, Prime Minister. What Prime Minister Sasin won't touch is trouble. There he was, Donald Tusk's name. There will be no increase in electricity prices - the first sentence. They'll be very low after a while. It's been a few months - there'll be compensation. What do we got? Nothing, just heights. The Jagiellonian Club report clearly states: about 20 billion Polish economy had higher costs by increasing energy prices. And this is the table where Mr. Sasin rules. The companies that are subject to it have lost 22%, and not by Coronavirus, from November to February. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Recorders: 42% - PGE, 42% - PKP Cargo. My father said that a boy from a man can only distinguish one thing: a man takes responsibility for his actions and words. Prime Minister Sasin, it is time to take responsibility for your actions. I'd like you to resign. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u422	Member of the House, Marshal Vladimir Czarzasty, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Sasin printed the ballots without any mode, without any legal basis, and at the end he lost them. He doesn't know where 30 million ballots are. This cost us 68 million PLN. For this 68 million, you could pay a few thousand nurses for your salary, you could buy 40 thousand. computers for remote learning. $30,000. The trees went under the ax to organize choices that weren't there. Mr. Sasin is subject to mining. There are 7.5 million tons of Polish coal on the heaps, and Poland draws 11 million tons per year from Russia. He pays $2 billion for this to Putin. Today we have over 3,000. Infected miners. If you'd spent that 68 million on protective equipment for the miners, it'd be less sick. Prime Minister! That's what the paragraphs are for: Art. 231 and Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 296 Penal Code. A public officer who, in excess of his powers or failing to fulfil his duties, acts to the detriment of the public interest and causes material damage to property shall be punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 5. The notice to the D.A.'s office has already gone, and the State Court is waiting. So much Factography. I've been wondering for a while how it is that rational people behave irrationally as this system of yours works. I know: The Emperor, Capuchinski, Ethiopia, Hajle Sellasje: all the changes from the monarch could only come, his consent and support required, otherwise they became a misrepresentation. Kapuściński was a little manipulative. There were three groups of men seeking the emperor. Those who think they can do anything, suckers and those who know they're either gonna rule or they're gonna sit. I'll start with those who can do anything. The Prime Minister's having dinner. The Prime Minister's having dinner, the mask's gone. There's no family either. No one else can, and he's eating because he can, because he's a group of people who can do anything. Mr. Kuchciński and the flights. He flies one way and the other with his family. He's not paying for it. Why? Because he can. A month. 15 people, last I saw, and a thousand cops around. It's all downtown locked up. Why is this happening? Because they can. Kaczyński and the cemetery. President Kaczyński is going to the cemetery. The others can't. They have mothers buried there, fathers buried there, families buried there. They can't. He can. Mrs Lichock. She showed the fucking whole Poland, the whole opposition, all of it, to all honest people. There were 100 million hits on the Internet, and Marshal Witek didn't see it, which is why she didn't punish her. And you know why she didn't punish her? Because she could. Because it belongs to the caste of people who can. [[Applause]] Let's take care of the suckers. Three. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how did this boy have to manipulate himself and make up his mind to suck up to this president? He found this song and thought to himself, "How will the president hear it, when it's the one in the Trinity, and if I take it off, maybe he'll glare at me, maybe he'll smile at me, maybe he'll tell me hello, maybe he'll see me at all?" TVP - Vaseline and money. The bigger the money, the bigger the Vaseline. The police - well, they perform their role, except for those who check bikes. Or maybe somebody will see that I'm gonna check my bike, see that someone's got something on that bike, see that somebody's bad crybaby wrote about the president. I'll see what happens. Officials - take money and what did they recognize? They figured 500+ was an earring. By the way, aren't you ashamed of that? There's a quote on that. When it comes to generosity, it is better to be generous, possessing someone else's property, stingy when it comes to their own good. It's better to wake up fear than love. And now the third group: those who either rule or sit. Mr. Sasin prints the cards because quick choices are needed. He knows that if Duda loses, there will be a breakdown of the empire, he knows that the palace of mediocrity is, a cluster of secondary people, and those in a crisis always lose their heads and try to save their own skin. You went for power, telling everyone that you represent people and come to fight the elites. Today it is clear: you are the elite who fights people. You're the elite who filled the minister's pockets. [[Applause]] With public money, censoring songs, beating people at protests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You treat Poland like your palace. You've made Eastern Poland into a satrapia. Well, then you should like it. That is why in this country a minister like Mr Sasin should be called off. The left will be behind this. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u424	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u425	Coalition Poland. First of all, health for Prime Minister Sasin. I'm not gonna take it out on him, 'cause you guys are gonna make a scapegoat out of him anyway. Although always the bravest student, the most urgent, will dance and play, will always dance as his president will play, at the end comes the president again and says that not to rhythm, steps not like this, but really not this song. Mr. Jacek is trying. The message from Nowogrodzka broadcasts all the time. Then it happens that it's the wrong message and he's talking out of line. It's a pity for a man because you're making him look like a scapegoat. There are no choices - Sasin's fault. The current is more expensive - Sasin's wine. There is no compensation - Sasina's wine. The state estate is melting - Sasin's wine. And you clean hands, disinfected. But it's not that it's the fault. Just Sasina. This proposal is not a proposal for just one minister, Deputy Prime Minister, a brave soldier of the PiS, that is a proposal against the government system you have introduced. He's just and exclusively a cog in this pathological, broken world of PiS, in this pathological, broken machine, in this system and system that you've created. Sasin isn't the main one until further notice, he's the principal. They made a Czech film from the presidential election. First, it's a card-printing matter. We don't know who printed these cards on the basis of whose instructions. It's known that the cards are gone. Although part of Głogów was found on the street and already there were those lucky people who, as the only ones in Poland, would have had a chance to vote, but the ABW took care of the case. It hasn't explained anything so far. Then it turned out that the rest of the cards were completely missing. She could not identify this place, neither the State Election Commission nor the Polish Post. Well, respect, lose 30 million cards - you really have to do your best. The president will never leave you a cat to watch again. Ha, ha, ha! It is known that these 30 million cards, which have been printed, are the cost of PLN 70 million. That's what we've been talking about. That's 1,400 companies that could get a grant of 50,000, that's 27,000. minimum salaries paid to employees, i.e. 7 million meals. That's all you've done with the election cards, maybe it'd be funny if it wasn't so scary. That's the inscription I saw on the Internet: Sasin, give us our 70 million. Poles. Did you really lead the Polish state to this ridicule? You weren't able to conduct the election, now you're saying it was the opposition's fault? Let's move on. That telenovela we've been talking about. First, there wasn't going to be any raises, then there was going to be little raises, and then there was going to be compensation. Compensation was to be, as an advance, already in January, is May, there is no bill on compensation, there is no proposal, there is no work on it in the Sejm. But there are downfalls of the Treasury companies. Last year: Pekao - 44% down, PKO BP - 36% down, Bank for Environmental Protection - 20% down. How's the power companies? Tauron - 26%, Enea - 30%, PGE - 50%. And don't tell me these are downfalls on the stock market because the stock market's average down 15%. , and JSW - by 68, PKP Cargo - by 70%. This is the result of the government of Prime Minister Sasin, but also of the entire machinery of filling their own in companies of the Treasury. They're not missing. Exchange of boards every minute, and next minute nationalization. Jacek Sasin is just a symbol, a trademark of your governments, and in fact a postage stamp for PLN 70 million. This is the essence, in fact, and in it is the whole philosophy of exercising your rule, the incompetent, the incompetent, in a system that, unfortunately, allowed you to do so. We need to bring not only to the appeal of Jack Sasina, but to changes in the framework of the system, to changes in this pathological philosophy according to which we function. A good step would be to cancel today, although it will probably be difficult to do so, but of course we stand on that side of power, which is for decency, competence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not for playing theater where there's only one director. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u426	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation. First Robert Winnicki. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, during the work of the committee, which, as usual, with its finesse, poloty and twists, was led by President Marek Suski, we were able to listen to a lot of things about the Ministry of State Assets. Why exactly was the Ministry of State Assets created? Why did you become Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, and why was this Ministry formed? Let's recall, it was created because four years ago the Treasury Ministry was liquidated. Then I said, "Okay, but there's the Treasury. Why are you shutting down this ministry? You don't need it anymore? Turns out it's needed. Why? Not to improve the management of the Treasury companies, but to tame the factions that spread within the ruling camp. Nowogrodzka began to lose control of the faction policy in the companies of the State Treasury. This is the reason why Deputy Prime Minister Sasin experienced the honor and was sent to an important front of party politics. It's about splitting the fructes. It was supposed to be like the President's ear: the calm consumption of the fruit of power, and suddenly the epidemic came, the crisis came and the cards had to be printed. Ladies and gentlemen! I feel a little sorry for you, Deputy Prime Minister. I think some of his government friends are making fun of him. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Gliński - for 70 million dollars they're hauling him away? [[Applause]] He wouldn't even bend over. Ha, ha, ha! After all, several hundred million went to the Polish National Foundation. Like blood in the sand. Even on the 100th anniversary of November 11, you were unable to prepare anything meaningful, you had to join the Independence March in order to do anything spectacular in 2018. [[Applause]] Burnt billions of zlotys. Burned to death for that power. Burned to cast the guys in the worst, SLD and platformed sense of the word. [[Applause]] This is the essence of your governments. Well, well, well. This is the essence of the rule of continuation of the Third Republic of Poland. You've licked, you've rushed only the judiciary, and it's not from where this reform should start. And that's all after five years. 5 years, during which the exercised power did not become a tool to make Poland a stronger, more efficient richer country, which would actually cope with problems. Five years to harden your own power to use it and eat spoons. That's why Deputy Prime Minister Sasin is in this position. That is why the Confederation will vote in favour of its withdrawal. This 70 million PLN is unfortunately small to the money that you waste every day in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u428	The rest of the time will be used by Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u429	Prime Minister! Minister! You've done a quarantine circus. You banned people from working 100 cases. You're freezing the economy off at 400. You used the crisis to propose some new taxes, new powers for the service to close the Sejm. Recently we saw that the Marshal of the Sejm limited the Confederation's place from two to one. It's for defrosting. You're sitting down. Maybe it's worth taking Jack Kurski's example. He limited the Confederation's place to zero and was still rewarded with a position. Perhaps if Mr. Marshal took an example, he would also get an additional position. But for now, all we can experience here is punishment for telling the truth. Mr Grzegorz Braun was punished for telling the truth here from the podium. That's ridiculous. I have a hint for the government and a marshal for you. We have 11 members of the Confederacy. If each of the 11 members of the Confederation were punished for 12 months, only after 343 years would the missing 68 million PLN be collected [[Applause]] spent on elections you didn't organize. Use the ideas of the Confederacy, just as you do at every session of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u430	Now you have the floor of the Minister of State Assets Jacek Sasin. We'll connect with the Prime Minister remotely. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[The minister's statement is displayed on the screens.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u431	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was very careful about the motion for mistrust and the reasons for it. It is a very interesting reading, very much talking about the logic that its authors follow. This is the logic according to which action for low reasons - this is the charge - is to respect the constitution and organize elections to which Poles have the right, but which is the right of Poles to receive the Civic Platform because it is unable to win any elections, it is not able to present a candidate who would kidnap Poles. He probably thinks that Poles are not adults to democracy because they don't want to choose a candidate for the Civic Platform. This is the logic that talks about putting citizens in danger by participating in elections, but it does not put citizens in danger of collecting signatures under the new candidacy that has been proposed. This is the logic that says that these elections did not have a legal basis, while the legal basis gives the constitution, clearly stated in its article. 128, when the election is due. According to your constitution, the marshal has scheduled the election for May 10th. That was the basis on which the government worked. This obliged us to prepare elections to give Poles the opportunity to elect their president in these elections. Today, when I hear the allegations that the elections did not take place because they were not properly prepared by us, I recall Mr Budka, Mr President, on 7 May this year, when he exposed who did not really allow the elections. He said: Thanks to the determination and firmness of the marshal Kidawa-Błońska, the determination of the opposition senators and the hard work of parliamentarians, and the firm attitude of local government officials, the plan of the Kaczynski election was destroyed on 10 May. They're the responsible ones. [[Applause]] High Izbo, for not allowing elections and for the losses that result. And to show that logic, that's 20 days later, that's all Mr. Budce had to do to change his mind completely and to say that he was completely responsible for the fact that there was no election. That's what you look like, ladies and gentlemen, your logic, and that's what you followed when you wrote this motion. So it's not worth digging into it. Maybe it's worth saying what's the real reason you're trying to call me out of office as Minister of State Assets. These are actions that have been going on for six months, because there is so much a ministry that I have the privilege of running, taking and taking over the government of the United Right. This is a complete change of philosophy with regard to the wealth of the State Treasury. We stopped selling national assets, which was your trademark. We are recolonising today the property that you sold, acquiring for the Treasury of the company that was sold, like Pekao SA. We consolidate, wisely consolidate companies of the Treasury so as to give them the opportunity to act effectively and compete effectively in the European market and also give them investment opportunities. That is why we have led to the merger of Orlen and Energi, which is why we want and are discussing today with the European Commission about the merger of Orlen and Lotus, which is why we are also creating a food holding company so that they are indeed strong players in the Polish market. We also want, and this is another brand of our company, big investments and we are realizing these investments. Only in this short, six-month period have we managed to launch, sign a contract for the construction of the Lower Odra power plant. It is an investment for over PLN 4 billion. We managed to create a whole financing system, a great strategic system for Polish investments - Polimery w Police - PLN 7.5 billion. It's a huge job to get that money... Give me more electric cars. ...both equity and loan mechanisms. [[Applause]] We are preparing, High Izbo, also responding to the challenges facing energy and mining, those challenges which are the result of the European Union's climate policy... More coal. ...which today condemns these branches of Polish industry to problems. It would be good for you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, from the Civic Platform, to convince your political partners in the European Parliament, in the European Commission, that today this policy is very difficult for us to accept, very difficult to introduce in our energy and mining model. You don't do that. You'd rather criticize. [[The bell, the applause.]] We're also changing the law. A Special Committee on State Assets was established in the Ministry of State Assets. Reforms of Ownership Supervision. In this short, half-yearly period, we have already prepared draft laws on corporate law, a law enabling companies to provide information to shareholders or shareholders by capital companies, or a law which increases the powers of supervisory boards. We also contributed to further anti-crisis shields, even though we were creating rules on preventing the acquisition of Polish companies' shares during the crisis. Now, ladies and gentlemen, additionally international successes. This was mentioned by Mr Zubowski, whom I thank for it. Indeed, a great success when it comes to our relationship with Gazprom. What has always been the Achilles' heel of Poland, we managed to obtain - a favourable judgment, which today means a real return of more than PLN 6 billion from Gazprom, through successful handling of the case at the Arbitration Court in Stockholm. This is the bill, honourable Members and Members of the Civic Platform and of the PSL, which should be issued to you. 6.2 billion PLN, which we have overpaid over the past years for Russian gas, because this is what you concluded with Gazprom, so you did not care about the Polish national interest. [[Applause]] Finally, in this short period we also managed to obtain a very positive decision by the German market regulator concerning Nord Stream 2, which said that this investment, which is not beneficial for Poland, threatens Polish interests, must be subject to European law, cannot be excluded from this right. This makes it very difficult to implement this investment today, perhaps even questioning it. And this is also a great success of the Ministry and the whole government, which is working on strengthening the Polish interest. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a lot of talk here about the declines of the Treasury companies in recent years. You do not seem to notice that we are in a crisis that affects not only Poland but also the whole world. I'd like to show you this interesting graph. He really shows the listing of companies of the Treasury in times of crisis today and during the reign of Donald Tusk. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! On this side we have the decline of companies of the Treasury during the reign of Donald Tusk, and this crisis we had at the time was much smaller than that which is today. But it's... At the other end of this graph - the inheritance that we have today. Well, bravo, that convinced me. Besides, after your governments, after the crisis in the days of Donald Tusk's government, company ratings have never returned to an earlier level. And now, as far as that period is concerned, then the real decline of the WIG20 companies of the Treasury in the years 2007 to 2009, i.e. in the times of your government, the government of Donald Tusk, is 62% of the decline in value. Today, in times of crisis related to the coronavirus - 23%. As for the real sums that you lost on the state assets at the time, only the shares of the State Treasury in the companies stood at that time by over 39 billion PLN, and in addition during your governments you sold out the national assets worth 52 billion PLN. This is how you managed your companies, ladies and gentlemen, and today we are doing everything we can to make these companies actually work as best as possible. Anyway, to confirm how well we're doing this, I'm going to quote to you what the inheritance looks like in other countries. With regard to the oil and gas sector and the decline in the State Treasury companies, Orlen, Lotos, PGNiG have lost 30% in recent months, while European, American and global indices for this sector have lost 30% in recent months. Thirty-three7%, which is well above the values that we have in Poland. As far as the chemical sector is concerned, especially the Grupa Azoty Puławy and Grupa Azoty Police, the whole Grupa Azoty lost 3.8% their value, while European and global indices have lost 10 That's it. Finally, when it comes to KGHM, he's lost 10%... What's 10%? ? 30%. ...and the entire index of raw materials companies at that time - more than 16%. We are actually able to stop this decline in company values much better than it is in other European countries, in US and global markets. That's the facts, it's not demagogy, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, what is extremely important, we have also managed to ensure that the companies of the Treasury serve the citizens. [[Applause]] They serve citizens, not a small group of managers or pseudo-managers, who mainly made millions in companies, and society had no benefit of it. That is why we have joined - the Ministry of State Assets and companies, which are supervised by the Ministry - very strongly in support of the fight against the koravirus. The companies transferred over PLN 170 million from their foundations to support medical facilities. Especially China masks. The companies Orlen, Grupa Azoty, KGHM and others have taken immediate production of those measures which were missing, namely primarily disinfectants. This is why they have also joined foreign purchases, using their contacts and their capabilities. [[Disruption of reception]] Oh, dear. Time to go, time to go. It's about a whole set of actions that in this first, most difficult period gave us real tools to effectively fight the koravirus. If we did not have these companies, if we listened to you and your economic ideologists, ladies and gentlemen from the opposition, who said that the state's assets in the economy should be eliminated, that capital has no nationality, that it does not matter whether we have Polish capital in Poland, we would not have such tools. But once again, it turns out that capital has nationality... But there's no party ID. ...and that we are right, and not you who have been spreading ideas in recent years, you have formulated such misconceptions. High Izbo! Finally, from the general to the detail, to actually show on one specific example what it looks like to manage companies of the State Treasury today, and what it looked like in times of government of PO and PSL. I've taken in such an inconspicuous company as PKN Orlen, our flagship concern... 2 billion PLN of losses for the first quarter. ...who is not only doing well on the domestic market, but also has a successful expansion on foreign markets. The total profit of Orlen in the last four years when the Law and Justice ruled, the United Right, was PLN 23 billion. Remember that amount. [[Applause]] During 8 years of government of POs and PSLs - 8 years are twice as long - profit is 3 billion PLN. You've ruined a Polish client. It was the Poles who paid for the fuel. Eight times less. That's how you managed it, ladies and gentlemen, companies. And what did the CEO of Orlen's salary look like at the time? During the last 2 years, the earnings of the President of Orlen together with bonuses and all other derivatives amounted to PLN 3.7 million. In the same 2-year period during your reign, PKN Orlen's president earned over 6 million, 6100 thousand. zł, which is almost twice as much as he makes today. But you could say they're abstract numbers. How do they translate into the situation of Poles? Well, it translates, it's very simple. It is the price of petrol, which Poles had to pay at Orlen stations in May 2014. Who was in charge then? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition of PO and PSL, those of you who today want to dismiss the Minister of State Assets. Then the price of petrol at Orlen gas stations was on average 5.36 PLN. And so Poles should be happy that the announcement of Donald Tusk, 7 PLN per litre of petrol, was not realized. 5.36 PLN, that's all you had to pay at the time. May 2020, now, in real reality, the price of fuel at Orlen petrol stations is 4 PLN and at some stations even less. How much does it cost on world markets? Ladies and gentlemen! This is the case in practice, and it translates into the situation of each of us, each citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u432	Thank you. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, will now speak. [[Applause]] I'll buy a cut.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your motion for a vote of distrust is a great admission of error, a great admission of guilt. Ha, ha, ha! It is clear to the Poles that you used the whole palette of evasiveness so that you would not lead to these elections. First you told the world there were deadly envelopes, deadly envelopes. We all remember how dangerous that was supposed to be. We remember very well the obstruction of the Senate, although, of course, during the pandemic, the Senate marshals went skiing to Italy, so I think that's where he learned the Italian strike. [[Applause]] So is Szumowski. In the footsteps of Minister Szumowski. For this reason, I understand that this Italian strike applied and applies it today. Today, however, Poles understand less and less where such a need for obstruction comes from. All the evasiveness that you are applying today certainly translates into the fact that for Poles it became clear that it was necessary to act in the conditions in which we were in. [[Applause]] How weak you are, man. Where did Donald have his eyes when he hired you? Your motion to dismiss Prime Minister Sasin is curial because there is a charge there, High Izbo, that Prime Minister Sasin acted. Because he acted to fulfill his constitutional obligation. [[Applause]] Constitution! Yeah, the constitution. Imagine, however, that, after two weeks, the Senate Marshal would have decided that this law could enter into force on time. Then what would the Citizens' Coalition's conclusion look like? Well, I'm sure Mr Sasin didn't work. Ha, ha, ha! As we know perfectly well from practice, there is always a reason to make absurd accusations. The absurdity of this plea is precisely that it was necessary for Prime Minister Sasin to act in order to carry out his constitutional duties. And we're all grateful... And why can't the Prime Minister... ...that action was taken at the Ministry of State Assets and elsewhere to conduct the elections. On the other hand, it was your great fear of a giant defeat that led to your Marshal of the Senate actually holding... Worked, didn't hold. He was working. Please publish the resolution of the PKW. ...freezes, uses a lot of avoidables only so that the election doesn't take place. [[Applause]] So we have constructively proposed a new solution. And what's happening today? Today again... You're not doing this to each other. ... The Senate and the Senate Marshal freeze the bill just to delay the entire election process, so that elections cannot be held in a normal way. But you're gonna sit with Sasin? All Poles know - we live in a very difficult time, during the epidemic. You couldn't do it, Prime Minister. And that's why all the actions we're doing have to take into account that time. Therefore, first, when the epidemic was in the most difficult stage of development, and everyone knows that it was at such a stage, we proposed correspondence elections. Your obstruction led to the fact that they were surgically impossible to perform. Today we propose elections in traditional and at the same time correspondence mode. This is the measure of goodwill and the measure of how we are constructively trying to approach this subject. In addition, I would like to emphasise the role of Prime Minister Sasin and thank him, Prime Minister, for his excellent actions during this pandemic of Coronavirus. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin was and is a member of the Government Emergency Management Team... PC. ...and a special team to manage the economic crisis. And that's what he's doing, too... Ha, ha, ha! ...made us proud to present a graph today. I really like charts, as you know. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, here is a very interesting graph of one of the Spanish institutes, so that... ... Santander? Because we have been praised recently by the French press, Le Figaro, and you can read here is the Spanish Institute. And here are the countries of Europe. On one axis there is protection against COVID-19, the effectiveness of this protection measured by the number of deaths per million inhabitants - this is one of the most important measures we can treat success in the fight against the coronavirus. There is an economic impact on the horizontal axis. For you, it's just statistics. And Poland is in the place where every country in the world would like to be, every country, which is closest to the top right corner, looking at this graph at the front - the closest to this corner. We'll teach the world. You guys can't. You're a bunch of losers. And this is also due to Prime Minister Sasin. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for both his participation [[Applause]] in all work related to the reduction of the pandemic of Coronavirus, as well as all activities related to the protection of the economy. Here it is worth noting, honourable fellow countrymen, dear fellow countrymen, some such dependence. Well, when the Senate of the Civic Coalition and allies of the Left and of the PSL for a month wondered what to do with the bill, we prepared a shield in two weeks that collects data from all possible systems... Cardboard, cardboard. And cocks for people. ... The Social Security Office, the National Settlement Chamber, the National Tax Administration, European funds and all others, in order to know whether the institution in question, which needs support, is indeed a trustworthy institution. And within two weeks, we've prepared a shield that's been running for a month. With this shield, i.e. in the protection of the Polish economy, you also worked as Prime Minister Sasin. I have not only full confidence in Prime Minister Sasin, but I am fully convinced that Prime Minister Sasin is the best person to protect Polish capital, Polish companies of the Treasury, Polish property. [[Applause]] What about the president? What about the president? 30 billion, 30 billion. Instead of 500 billion. It's all losses. So you didn't know exactly where your argument was going. You said the election was illegal, but on the other hand, as you've already led to the fact that they couldn't be held... Is this a debate about elections or about Sasina? ...then today you have a problem with passing the bill quickly, so that there is as much time as possible for elections to take place within the only possible constitutional time. But they will take place within this constitutional period, also because we have trustworthy people, full of determination, courage, courage to make decisions at a difficult time, at a critical time of the pandemic of Coronavirus. And that's who Prime Minister Jacek Sasin is. [[Applause]] So all that stuff you guys did, that sand in the modes, that stick you put in the spokes, it just made it worse for companies to help. The fact that we have been helping entrepreneurs and helping to save jobs is also the result of the work of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin in our economic teams, in government crisis management teams. You have no idea how decisions were made there. No mode. State without mode, we're out of mode. That's where we worked 24 hours seven days a week. You don't know this job, [[Applause]] because the characteristic feature of your candidates is laziness, above all laziness, but I think Poles will learn about those who are hardworking and who are lazy. You brought the Antonov masks. A ski instructor. You've shown what laziness is. Meanwhile, our actions, efforts to defend jobs, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow countrymen, have led to the fact that today's unemployment gains, but we are in pain by every unemployed person, are among the lowest in Europe. Don't compare yourself to demolds. Scams are better... I'm gonna show you this board again. I'm gonna show you this board again. One of the lowest in Europe. Meanwhile, in France, in one of the richest countries in the world, unemployment is beginning to reach 5 million. Several hundred thousand more people receive unemployment benefits. In the United States, the number of people receiving benefits exceeded 40 million. For these economies are the apocalyptic data. For the Spanish economy, this is a sharp increase in unemployment of nearly 1 million people. Let me remind you that this is a country with a population similar to Polish... And here we are... ...slightly higher than Polish, but one might say similar. Send Sasin there. Unemployment increased by 1 million, so it was necessary to act so quickly. The shield in Spain is still absent today, the shield in Spain still does not exist today, the shield in the same dimension as we have constructed, as Mr Budka and Mr Kosiniak spoke quietly here, praising this shield. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr President, for these sincere words of praise to our shield. It's cardboard. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A global crisis of unknown proportions. The health crisis, which has already turned before our eyes into a giant economic crisis. And what does the opposition do at the time? Well, the opposition is searching for... Scams, scams. Your scams. ...another possibility to apply for a vote of confidence. This is the sense of destruction that has snuck into your ranks. And I urge you not to do that. Now we need Poland's unity, the unity of the government, the Sejm, the president... It was already in the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]] ...to be able to fight the crisis in the best way possible. Mr Budka, I draw your attention. For Mr. President Budek. In this connection, I would like to emphasise once again one thing that the Prime Minister mentioned here. And it is very important because it is enough to summarize the period of your government and supervision of the Treasury, when this number of companies supervised by 1400 fell to 400, so there was a huge sale of assets, including large companies, such as today are pearls in the Polish crown, in the crown of the Polish economy. In Janów. Janów Podlaski. We recolonize, we repatriate Polish capital to Poland from export... It's called nationalization. Mr. Trap... ...from the expansion of Polish capital. This is the only smart policy that reverses your economic mistakes for 25 years, nearly 25 years, which has led us to see that today our debt towards abroad is still too high. And how did you advise Tusk? But I would like to say to the honourable Member State, the High House and dear fellow countrymen that it is shrinking and shrinking thanks to the economic policy of Law and Justice, the economic policy which is co-founded by Prime Minister Jacek Sasin. [[Applause]] Pollena, Polfa, Polmos. I think it's Wołomin. Janów Podlaski, SKOK Volomin. These companies have in their name Polish companies, Polish companies, which you sold out. Polfa Kraków, Polfa Rzeszów. SKOK Volomin, SKOK Volomin. Last week, the SLD, the Left, the post-communists, and the PSL were sold. If it weren't for this, we could have a better rate of domestic drug production today, medical safety, including epidemic times. Today seven out of ten drugs are unfortunately foreign, but this is a simple consequence of this sale. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin defends Polish property, ownership of the State Treasury and does it well in these very difficult times, to which you can only compare on such a principle as this is shown here. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin takes very good care of the Polish economy, about Polish companies of the State Treasury, and his actions during the pandemic period aimed at fulfilling the constitutional obligation are commendable. He was compromising. Discredited. His courage is commendable. I thank him very much for this and I ask the High House to reject the motion for a vote of distrust. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u434	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will be voting on this in a moment. I'm declaring a time-out. 9:30. Discrediting the marketplace. So... Oh, the tsaryca quietly, there will be time for that. Discredited. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 17 hours 21 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. After the break, ladies and gentlemen, we have a few... We will review the quorum again, and therefore I would ask you very much to press any button to check the quorum. You're welcome. Thank you. 439 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. Two formal proposals before the votes. There you go, Mr. Robert Winnicki, Confederation. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is an important anniversary of the judgment of the Constitutional Court given under the leadership of Professor Andrzej Zoll, respected by many in this House, especially on this side of the House. In the justification of this judgment we read: The value of constitutionally protected legal good, such as human life, including prenatal life, cannot be differentiated. There are no sufficiently precise and reasonable criteria for such differentiation depending on the development phase of human life. Since its inception, human life has thus become a constitutionally protected value. This also applies to the prenatal phase. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since we have the anniversary of this fundamental judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 1997, I would like to ask that this session of the Sejm - which is to continue until next Wednesday - adopt a law on the ban of eugenic abortion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u436	Thank you, sir. Of course, we cannot vote on this proposal. The agenda has been established. Here you go, Mr. Boris Budka, Civil Coalition, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u437	Yes, a formal request for a break, your marshal, High Izbo, so that Prime Minister Morawiecki can come back here and apologize to the Poles for the loss of taxpayers under his rule on these famous recolonizations. For what? You bought Pekao SA - PLN 123 per share. Today they're worth 50 zlotys. [[Applause]] You bought Alior for 89 PLN. How much is it worth today? 15 zł. Shame! And you're gonna want to create some kind of national grocery store network. And that's what Sasin's gonna do? You're bigger socialists than Marks, Engels, all taken together. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, you have the wrong era. You really are not fit to manage the Polish economy. You're no good for anything. Are you defending Sasin? 70 million in mud. 30 billion less are worth the assets of the Treasury companies after 6 months of supervision by Mr Sasin. You have no shame in defending this man. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u438	Thank you very much, sir. The Member has applied for a break. We are voting on a request for a break. You're welcome. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break? It's not working. It's working. It's working. It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? A lot of store managers are gonna have to fill. I wonder who's gonna supervise in Radom. I have a type. Mr. President, why are you getting so upset? What's that for, sir? You weren't there, Marshal. If you were driving, it would be different. Don't discuss it, sir. Your marshal's gonna run a store, too. Mr President, you can always change your profession and help the shops. Marshal, can't you go any faster? If the Prime Minister has announced that the outbreak is over, maybe we should go back to the gym. 455 Members voted. 217 - for, 236 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law on printing No 386. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 386 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 443 - for, against - 11, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Public Finance Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 392-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u439	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the second reading, eight amendments were tabled to the draft law amending the Public Finance Act. The Commission has examined the amendments and recommends that all amendments be rejected. At the same time, amendments 1 to 7 should be voted together as linked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-28-sejm-12-2.u440	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 392. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose the title of the Act to amend the Act on Public Finance and the Act on the Supreme Audit Chamber. Amendments 2 to 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 7 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 218 - for, 235 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 3 of the draft amending act propose that the law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 220 for, 237 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 392, would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 432 - for, 22 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Public Finance Act. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of State Assets, Jacek Sasin. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of State Assets, Mr Sasina, will press the button. I want to look at those who defend him. Who's against it? Who's holding back? How about you, Marshal, solve the flower thing for Sasin? Prime Minister Beata... I'm the debutante. The question is, how do you get Suski's flowers? 457 Members voted. For-- 223, against-- 234, no one's holding back. [[Applause]] In view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of State Assets, Jack Sasin. Shame, shame! You can't see the minister. A applause of shame. That's for the job. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 28 May this year. The meeting shall be adjourned by 3 June 2020 at the latest. 12, but at the same time I have warned all your Members, I have said this at the Bureau and the Seniors' Convention that, depending on what and when you come from the Senate, the Sejm may take place on Tuesday or Thursday. So I'm managing a recess until Wednesday, but it may be that the Sejm will be held on Tuesday or Thursday. We will then convene the Bureau and the Senior Convention on Monday. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 59]]
