ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. The secretaries are already in place. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senior Convention has been held. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: amendment of the Rail Transport Act and some other laws and consider it as item two of the agenda. I would add that this is at the request of the Ministry of Infrastructure, in agreement with the chairman of the committee, Senator Hamerski, because there is a certain urgency of adapting to EU directives. This point was to be considered at the next meeting, but the convention agreed to introduce it to this meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. So we are back to discussing the first item on the agenda: the budget law for 2020. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Health has no political colors and the disease also has no political colors. The level of funding, and hence the effectiveness and level of treatment, does not depend on the Minister of Health or on the NFZ, depends on how much is included in the budget and what is the contribution paid to the NFZ. So we should talk to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Our debate, what we will decide in Parliament, is a very important, decisive matter. All other debates, conferences, expert meetings, meetings are already secondary, are in a sense poor management. We want to transfer this 2 billion PLN to oncology, which does not mean that there are no other needs. In the Health Committee we saw a lot of needs, we saw what should be powered by large amounts of money, but we decided to transfer the money to what is most urgent. We're meeting the charge that it's demagogy, that it's populism. I hope that this argument will ultimately be rejected. For 30 years, if there's a health problem coming back, I feel like I've been listening to a record long ago. Piarist arguments are changing, and they are very easy to come back to. These are precisely such arguments as the demagogical argument that health care is a bottomless well, that it is not allowed to play on the emotions of sick people that we have already given a lot, and the predecessors less, that first we need to change the system and then increase funding. In these statements there is a little truth, only that, first, a little bit, and secondly, it is a convenient argument absolving the lack of real, very necessary actions. And people are dying, and it's not demagogy, at least not for doctors, nurses, patients and their families. Therefore, the emotions of Prof. Chybick or e.g. Mine are understandable. There is also a new argument: hospitals are not government. It's true, they're not government. They are self-government, supervised by local authorities, managed by hospital directors appointed or appointed by these local authorities. That's a real argument, too. And you have the opportunity to see the responsible health care officer, i.e. the director of the county hospital, i.e. Me. So there's someone in the courtroom who's guilty. All that evil. But it's not really like that at all. It is not the right place or time to deal with one hospital, its example and to base on it today, but I will gladly give some information to the senators. Well, there are 2,000 62 doctors and dentists in the Częstochowa Medical Chamber. There are 2,000 62 of them, and at the moment at retirement age there are 733 of them. For 2,000 62 at retirement age is 733. In 2019 the increase of retired doctors is 59 people and the trainees are 31. This is the current situation that the hospital director has no influence on. In general surgery, there are 7 doctors in the age range 26 and 45 and over 65 years of age 27. In the case of neonatology, an extremely needed specialization, there are 3 neonatologists in the Częstochowa Medical Chamber in the age range 26 and 45 years old, aged 65 and over 6 years old, and at the age of 61 and 65 years old. And six, too. So that's the situation. The average age of a surgeon is 59 years old, pediatricians 60 years old, pediatric surgeon 65 years old. The director of the hospital has no influence, and someone has to be on duty and someone has to treat patients, even those with the coronavirus. According to the data provided to us at the Health Commission meeting, the funding of postgraduate training for doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, i.e. post-graduate traineeships and specializations, will be provided by the Labour Fund. The draft budget law for 2020 included appropriations at 2019 level in the Labour Fund plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make an amendment to increase the amount of money because it seems logical. As minimum salaries grow, wages grow, everything grows, and more money for training doctors, nurses, etc. should be booked in the budget. But the translation of the Minister of Health led me away from this idea because it turned out that in 2019 the money was not used to train doctors, nurses, etc., and so, following this logic, the Ministry of Health proposed the same money for 2020, since it failed to use it in 2019. But that's not my logic, and I don't think that's the right way to go. I'll leave it to you without comment. In any case, we must wish that this year this money is used and that these doctors are trained. I wish you very much. Of course, doctors interns are currently earning 2,000 600 zł. This is their salary. 840 PLN for 40 hours and 20 minutes on call, or 21 PLN per hour. What does the hospital director have to do with this? None at all. Maybe two more short examples. The cost of food prices increased by 50% in hospitals in 2 years. The cost of transporting an ambulance with a doctor 3 years ago was PLN 8.50, 2 years ago The hospital contract did not increase by either 50% or 100% No matter what they say about it. We have nursing standards - this is a very good initiative, which should be commended only that introducing them, introduced 3 variables, i.e.: the number of beds, the number of nurses and the amount of money. Because in order to meet these standards, two things are needed: nurses who are not there and it is not the hospital director who trains them and does not the hospital director produce them or can clone them; no, there is no such possibility and money. So if we're gonna hire more nurses, the NFZ should automatically give us more money. That, of course, doesn't exist either. And the third variable, that's the number of beds. And this is a great surprise that hospitals reduce the number of beds. What if the rules introduce 3 variables and only 1 variable director has an impact? It's shutting down hospitals with no hands. Ladies and gentlemen, there are allegations of a lack of constructive proposals. And that's the truth. There's often criticism without any suggestions. You don't say what to do. The announcements of the hospital network, the announcements of health needs maps went in the right direction, of course for an unknown reason they stopped halfway, were not met. But there are ideas, there are possibilities, there is a program. The Left also has a health programme. We know what to do. Despite the arguments that you should not disclose your programs, because someone can pick them up, someone can use them, I believe that in health care this argument is completely unhappily and I will gladly share ideas with the ministers, i.e. solutions to this difficult situation. It is alleged to the local government that they defend hospitals that the hospital network failed because they are kept individuals that are not profitable. First of all, some individuals will always not pay off and this is an argument completely missed, because for reasons such as. epidemiologically, you have to maintain certain branches or hospitals, no matter what the financial result is, because it doesn't matter at all. Secondly, what are local government officials supposed to defend if not hospitals? What is another workplace or an undertaking of such importance in a given area where they rule? What are they supposed to defend? Well, I don't know what... Some kind of manufacturing plant or something? Of course, they will defend the hospital because they act according to the will of the locals. But like I said, I'll give you a clue to the exit. It's a mistake to map hospitals, create a map of hospital beds. How many hospitals aren't that important. It doesn't matter how much it is, it doesn't matter what beds there are, it doesn't matter if they provide care in the area. And quickly you need to change this map of hospitals, because actually it happens that there is a hospital that has 5 very needed branches, 2 not so necessary, although it is difficult for me to say this, but let's say that this is a bad financial result, and now we will close this hospital because this is the situation, although these 5 branches are very needed. And there should be more beds in these hospitals or there should be less evaluation of this already belongs to the institutions responsible for it. But a map of beds is a much better option than a map of hospitals. The valuation of benefits should then be differentiated according to the hospital's performance of the benefit. Other are hospital costs that work 365 days a year, round, day and night, and operate, and other hospitals that work from Monday to Friday, and also has a contract with the NFZ, but at 4:00 on Friday everything closes up and now he gets the same money as the hospital working all year round. It's a whole different kind of money. This should be otherwise valued and then the situation of these hospitals would be different too. There is, of course, also a demand that is being disposed of, but I think it will be a short time ago that public hospitals need to be extended. Hospitals are in debt for 14 billion. We say it's a lot. At first glance, it's a lot, but, ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Senator, 10 minutes. Mr. Marshal, all right, I'm almost done. There were 14 billion, but for 20 years, so these hospitals are actually saving a lot of money. Yeah, they're really saving up, it's a very small debt. Because time is running out, I'm going to say this: as the password for the extension falls, there is an argument that this is wrong, because hospitals are back in debt. They will be indebted if there is no proper valuation of health benefits. That's where we start. You have to pay as much as the hospitals spend. Finally, I will make such an appeal to the senators. Let me put it this way: there are very few moments at the hospital director's job that give real satisfaction, but I had a moment like this. We used to have a wake-up room that didn't work, it was ripped off, it was unused, it wasn't operational. With the help of the president of the city, with the money he gave me, I started it, and now people are being treated there. Of course, it makes the hospital more indebted, but it didn't matter to me. I was called there once, I went in there, I walked into this room, I leaned against the wall, and I saw a nurse running around with a patient, patients hooked up to various monitors. I felt such a sudden satisfaction then, you know, it felt so good that I did something good. Time is running out, Mr. Marshal, but forgive me, because this is very important. This is an appeal. It's for you. If you ever go to the oncology department Not as patients, because I don't wish you to, and not to your families, but for some other reason, e.g. as senators from a given district And you'll see in this ward how someone brings drugs to this ward, the nurse picks them up, runs to a patient to serve them... If you vote tonight for this money to go to those meds, you'll feel the satisfaction I felt. And you know what? I think it's worth going to politics for this satisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. Let me remind you that the time limit applies to all of us. Next up is Senator Bubbles. Here you go, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ministers! Yesterday's budget debate in the Senate of the Republic of Poland was interrupted at 22.02 p.m. and at the request of Marshal Tomasz Grodzki was announced a break until 10 a.m. today. I value your Marshal's decision because I was scheduled to perform around 22.20. We must take care of the health of Poles, but in order to make rational decisions, we must also take care of our health and at least regenerate a little. We can't sit until after 10:00. At the outset, I would like to say that I fully support the amendments tabled by the senators yesterday, the amendments which should be adopted by the High House for the benefit of our country and its inhabitants, as I am calling for from this point of view. Due to my extensive experience as a local government, 12 years I was President of Kalisz, 12 years Chairman of the Assembly of the Municipal Union of Municipal Municipalities of Pure City, Pure Municipality, bringing together 22 communes of Kalisz, Sieradzki, Turkish and Pleszewski districts, and 1 year Chairman of the Management Board of this Association I work in 2 Senate committees, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment. The amendments of this first committee were presented and justified yesterday by Senators Zygmunt Frankiewicz, chairman of the committee, and Bogdan Zdrojewski. The environmental amendments have been discussed in substance by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and I will not go back to them. However, the latest articles and TV programs, e.g. I think the Saturday edition of the Black on White has become an impulse to prepare another fiscal amendment concerning the ASF. The authors of the amendment are Senator Alicja Chybicka, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and the rapporteur for this amendment. The fact that such an amendment should be tabled and adopted by the High House has confirmed us even more clearly yesterday's reply from the representative of the Ministry of Finance to the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz concerning the amount of funds to fight against ASF. There are no such measures, and if they are, they are scattered in the budget, in different departments and chapters. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that, in addition to a very broad discussion at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, and later extraordinary consultations with social factors organised at the initiative of the KO Senators, a multi-hour debate took place in this House in plenary on the amendment of certain laws to combat infectious diseases of animals, mainly African swine fever, and on the reduction of the population of feral pigs in the territory of the Republic of Poland. There has been a great deal of talk about what an important bill is, who will be responsible for safety during the sanitary discharge, but above all, we have been paying attention to the issue of bioinsurance, which is also associated with serious financial resources. In the budget, we don't see them or they're minimal. After talking to specialists, we come to the conclusion that the effective fight against ASF requires a minimum of PLN 100 million this year. In order to effectively fight this virus, we propose this amendment to the 2020 budget asking for it to be adopted. I'm calling it in, too. In order not to extend, in writing, 4 regional amendments in concern for my electoral region, i.e. Kalisz, Pleszew, Jarocin, Wielkopolska voivodship, but also for the implementation of the 100 bypasses programme. I hope that the Kalisz bypass and the Jarocin bypass, if these amendments are taken into account, will help Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to implement this ambitious programme. I will wholeheartedly cheer for this program to work, and I think not only to cheer, but also to help parliamentarians from my district, as well as everyone else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Then Senator Sekuła. I remind you, 10 minutes. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would just like to say one thing: it is very important to keep your word, and in politics it is not always possible to keep your word. I refer here to a few investments started in the region from which I am a senator, namely in Sosnowiec and Jaworzno. It is about road investments and one other investment, a beautiful historic building of the station in Maczkie. Glowing plans, signing in the light of the contract cameras, ensuring that we want to save cultural heritage. The works were started, a hole was dug in the ground, windows were bricked up, several buildings were demolished and nothing since 2016. For this reason, I am making an amendment that will enable this investment to be undertaken, as there was to be a railway development centre, a place for student education. An agreement was signed with the Silesian University of Technology, and the Ministry of Infrastructure had previously ensured that it was a very important project from the point of view of heritage protection. The second amendment concerns the start of road investments, so-called. Roads to nowhere. When you create a network of roads and you want the region to actually be communicated and so that economic zones, places where large industrial plants are set up, have a meaningful connection, and then these investments do not continue, then who is loaded in a bottle? I am making 2 road amendments that will enable two industrial areas to be connected to the rest of Silesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Then, please, Senator Skurkiewicz... But I don't see him. He deserted. Delete. Delete definitively. Then you're welcome, Senator Bober. I also remind you of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I want to raise a very important topic about the area where 1/3 of Poles live. To make it look that the Polish village is a land full of happiness, milk and honey. Indeed, you are talking about sustainable development of Poland, about supporting small homelands. After all, from there comes our heritage, our identity. Without it... And these funds in the budget, unfortunately, apart from road support, are not visible. I keep my fingers crossed for the Minister of Agriculture to at least negotiate the best possible RDPs for the following years, so that funds can be found there to support rural areas. There have already been so many words here yesterday about the situation of Polish local governments, especially those local governments that operate in rural areas. Without budget resources, they can't handle it. They do not have the resources for applications for EU funds in order to actually carry out tasks there. But this problem that I'm talking about is really about supporting all the residents. Because more and more inhabitants of the cities are moving, wants to live in the Polish village. The main problem is to keep young farmers in this village so that they want to work there, function and take over after their parents. Without creating the right infrastructure conditions for them, this will be a very difficult task. A few words about the strict functioning of agriculture itself as a very important department of water management. I don't think there's any doubt in this room that the basic problem right now is the increasing drought problem, that's the problem. water retention. The little retention you're talking about hasn't moved. Three years ago, you took the local government's water melioration boards. Polskie Waters, which were established as a company, did not really start any activity and did not start any program that would serve the mentioned issue. You were talking about more retention. Four years ago a dam was to be built on the Vistula River, second degree, below Włocławka, near Ciechocinek, in Sierzewo. The object, which was not only intended to produce energy, but above all was to provide water for the steppe Kujawy, the most vibrant lands in Poland. 'Cause from there, through the sewers, there was going to be water to irrigate these areas. If we do not approach the subject of the water problem consistently, this deficit will really worsen and the Minister for Agriculture will only pay compensation. The programs that have been made today, which are really used for irrigation, do not solve this problem, because the water from the rain cellar... Rain plants are used in less than 1/3, the rest, despite the costs incurred, is unfortunately inefficient for agriculture. As far as the budget is concerned... The cheapest solution for production and cost reduction is biological progress. In this budget there is 10 million PLN less for very important activities, to support these areas. Yet, the Minister of Agriculture entrusted these tasks to trade unions by allocating PLN 100 million for them last year. Of this 54 million zlotys were collected. And the regulation has not been passed on to biological progress. I hope that the 90 million zlotys saved this year will be targeted in this area in order to really support programmes that will reduce production costs in a perspective. Mr Marshal, however, the amendment I would like to make to the chairman of the committee concerns a different area than the one we are talking about here. This was decided by the situation of the hospital in Grudziądz, a 90-thousand city that runs a hospital with a regional range. This situation causes the city's government to have only a conditional multiannual financial forecast approved by RIO. Therefore, I ask you to increase the funding from the state budget for lending to local government units in the framework of resolution by PLN 250 million. There's nothing definite here. This will enable local governments, who are in difficulty, to apply for government guarantees. Well, no one's saying there's gonna be a miracle and a budget extension, as Senator Wojtek Necessary just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ministers! What is the main question that arises when we are debating the shape of this budget? The question is: will it be an optimal budget for Poles and Poles, will it be an optimal budget for the governing party? His presentation by the esteemed gentleman, absent Senator Bierecki, was purely party. He wasn't really talking about a sustainable budget. We all know, including the honorable absent Senator Bierecki, that such a budget is not true. If it wasn't a propaganda stunt, the budget loan needs wouldn't have increased nearly twice compared to last year's needs and wouldn't have been PLN 23.5 billion. According to Eurostat estimates, the deficit in public finances is expected to amount to PLN 28.5 billion, or 1.2%. GDP. We know that this budget theoretically or on paper or propaganda is only balanced because of one-off factors. These factors are primarily revenue from fees for converting accounts into open pension funds into individual pension accounts and proceeds from the sale of CO2 allowances. If it hadn't been for these factors, the government deficit would have been twice as high, 2.2%. GDP, over PLN 52 billion. It would then be the fifth highest, ex aequo with Spain and France, the deficit of public finances throughout the European Union, and among the countries of our region only below Romania. But not those numbers, and not that this budget is not balanced, and not even that you're talking about it purely propaganda, for the purposes of the party campaign of the presidential candidate, Mr. Duda, your candidate. That's not the worst part. In fact, you know very well, including Senator Bierecki who is not here, that these amendments, these 10 amendments, which we as a democratic majority make, will really improve the quality of life, health, and will often decide whether people will live or not. This concerns thousands and hundreds of thousands, millions of Poles. That's why I'm asking you to support the amendment on almost $2 million to fight cancer... Billions. ...2 billion to fight cancer, 1 billion to fight smog. You know, contrary to what the honorable and absent Senator Bierecki said, there isn't enough money for these two things, and they might be in this budget. I also ask you to support the destiny of this PLN 4.5 billion to improve Polish education. I ask you as a father of children and as a senator from Poznań, because even in this rich city as Poland it is limited because there are no funds for teachers' wages, any additional classes, from English to sports classes. Finally, I ask you to support the allocation of PLN 3.5 million to the European Solidarity Centre. That's proof of that. Since you're taking money from the Senate to Polonia That you want or at least your party bosses want it to be an optimal budget for the party, not for Poles and Poles. Because there's no other reason why you want to take that money away from the Senate, and there's no other reason why you've been taking money from the European Solidarity Centre for two years than because you don't want any public money to go to you, not your formation. I'm appealing again. Choose a budget for Poles and Poles. As Bartoszewski used to say, you can behave decently. I will submit two more amendments just so that this budget will serve Poles and Poles this time in my constituency, in Poznań, connected with absolutely key infrastructure investments. The first is the construction of a road viaduct in Lutycka Street in Poznań, which not only reduces the hours of traffic in the area, but also increases safety by building a collisionless crossing with the railway line Poznań Szczecin and the second is the construction of a bridge on Warta south of Poznań, within the newly designed road of Luboń Czapura. As far as these investments are concerned, I propose that we take back the two institutions that were to be state-owned, but are party... In connection with the first investment, I propose to reduce by PLN 20 million the budget of the Central Anti-corruption Office, which has become a purely party political police, and to reduce by PLN 40 million the budget of the Institute of National Remembrance, which does things worthy of financing it, but also does many things absolutely unworthy of it, including political attacks and the creation of the party's historical past, producing it. These amendments are hereby tabled, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Amendments are accepted. A calm and balanced speech. Second time, five minutes. The next one will take the floor... Senator Poor. Halina Poor. Yes, sir. Senator Poor. You're welcome. I jumped too fast. Sufler... Not a souffler, a hack.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I think that about all the important tasks, which are very much and for which there is always too little money, we have spoken here many times. Priorities, I think, which we have defined and for which we are all agreed, which is health, environment, education... I'm sure we're all signing off on them. I think that quotas have also been set, starting with this famous amendment concerning PLN 2 billion oncology instead of TV... However, I would like to refer further to the way the budget and these amendments operate, and mainly to the fact that funds were taken from the Senate of the Republic of Poland for Polish actions. The amount is known. Marshal Borusewicz spoke about the historical progress of this amount, and Senator Ziemiak also referred to it. I, due to my many years of cooperation with both the Polish Community and other Polish environments, took part in the action of Summer in Poland, in various trips, visits, educational and cultural activities, I would like to appeal to the High Senate to accept this amendment, i.e. to leave the Polish funds in the budget of the Senate of the Republic. Otherwise... This was the case, and I know this from experience, because institutions working for Poles outside the country also addressed me on this issue. If the funds are in the Senate, there is a chance that they will be transferred with a possible slight delay, and if they are taken from the Senate, they will be transferred with a very long delay. In addition, the multiplicity of entities that will, after this change, divide these funds will make it impossible for beneficiaries to know exactly what action... which conclusions to direct to whom. I don't think that's right. The way in which we process the laws and the fact that the vacathio legis is often very short, which is pointed out by both citizens and various actors or legislators who give opinions on specific laws, cause... Changing the rules during the game for no one, I think, is not good. Therefore, I would like to appeal specifically to the Senate as a whole to support these funds so that they remain at the disposal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I will also make 2 regional amendments, one in the context of these 100 bypasses, namely the first stage of the construction of the Bytom ring road The second one concerns the preservation of cultural heritage, and this applies to a narrow-track queue connecting Bytom to the Silesian Town. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to speak in the debate for the second time, Senator Tyszkiewicz. But he wasn't before... Oh, I'm sorry, then. I've been informed this is the second time. First time, 10 minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u14	I'll try less. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not gonna make any changes to the budget or any new amendments. I am the co-author of the amendment on the education budget But I have decided to speak after listening to all these speeches, because I would like to correct certain things and appeal for certain things. Very often there was such a slogan in the hall: the increase in revenue in the budget is... And the question was, whose credit is it? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify that an increase in revenue in the budget is not due to the government. It's the credit. all of us, local governments, Poles, entrepreneurs who create this budget, who are working on this budget. It's not the government's fault. Just so we're clear. Very often the slogan falls: increase in expenditure. We've heard it dozens of times when they've been praised for growing, for example. expenditure on oncology. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask you a question: net or gross? You can't confuse the level of expenses... and compare it to what was 5 or 10 years ago. This is hypocrisy, this is dishonest. If we say that spending has increased, we should also say whether it has increased and in so far as the net expenditure is concerned. Yes? 'Cause the cost is rising. The cost of labour increases, the cost of materials increases. So if we say we spend more oncology... Again, we have to figure out how much more we spend net. And I didn't hear that here, it was just bragging about the amounts that we're spending more money. Ladies and gentlemen, when I started my self-government career, my municipality had a budget of 50 million, and now it has 250 million zlotys. And I'm not saying it's all my fault, and we're the only ones who've caused the budget to go up five times because the costs have gone up. So please take into account the increase in net expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, increase in health expenditure. I would like to appeal to the government not to charge the sums that Poles simply deserve. Well, it can't be said that the government has increased spending on health care when these expenses result only from health contributions. If a government with its own money, if it had it, would have increased its expenses, then I would have been it. He understood, okay. But if we're saying it's a favor to hand over a health contribution, which, of course, is growing... Pay increases, salaries rise, taxes rise, health contributions increase and more money goes to health care, which is the health care sector that is paying more and more costs, because wages are higher and so on. So in order not to blur this real picture, I'm going to say that it's no mercy that the government is handing the health contribution to health care, because that's just what people deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, is the balanced budget good? There is a constant boasting of this balanced budget. I would like to stress that this is not a great success. Last year, 13 countries of the European Union had a budgetary surplus. A balanced budget has many countries. I'm glad we figured it out, but whether it's right or wrong, I don't know. When I was asked, as a self-government officer, whether it was right or wrong, that the municipality had debt, I answered, I didn't know, I had to look into the structure of the expenditure, I had to look into the structure of the income and only then determine whether this debt was some tragedy for the municipality, or whether it was a chance for development. So we need to analyze the entire budget. The fact that he's balanced doesn't say much yet. This is definitely not enough, and my predecessors talked about it. Ladies and gentlemen, since I'm from the government... Former President Gliwice, Mr Frankiewicz, the current senator has already spoken of this. We are co-authors of the amendment, which aims to transfer money to education, which is dramatically underfunded. But it's not just about education. The scale of underfinancing, for example, the tasks commissioned... I didn't make such an amendment because I was asked not to blow up this budget in some drastic way. And we could make a lot of adjustments. For your information, only civil status offices whose operation is a commissioned task, which is the government should pay for them, and not pay... That's 300 million zlotys. This 300 million PLN spends local governments, which could spend this money on something completely different, for schools, for classes, for fields, for patching holes in the school roof, because it is the task of the commune. The tasks commissioned should be financed by the government. And if the government saves money, it shifts its tasks to the government's shoulders, there's nothing to brag about. There's nothing to brag about when you break the constitution. Take a look at the article. 167 constitutions, where it is written that local self-government units are provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. That's not true. And if the government says it's cool because we have a balanced budget because we have a lot of money in the budget, but it does it all at the expense of local governments, which is all of us, because we in our municipalities aren't going to carry out the tasks that our people need, what's to brag about? If it were an art. 167 was filled by the government, then it would be okay. Ladies and gentlemen, education. Things are starting to get really bad in the light. Money is really very little. I reached out to the Prime Minister's exposé, who said: we invest in the future of Poland, therefore we invest in teachers and education, our spending has been the biggest in 4 years. Just do it again. Our net or gross expenses? I inform you that in schools in municipalities the situation is dramatic. Of course, this dramatic situation is that, so to speak, taken care of by the ladies, mayors and presidents, because the money they had for investment is spent on education. I'm gonna be finishing up because I don't want to take up too much time. I would like to give you a letter, which was written to me by the governor of one of the municipalities of Lubuskie voivodeship, not a poor community, but quite rich. He writes to me in an alarming tone, terrified. He says: listen, the raises for the teachers that the government has given, saying that is us! It's us! We're the ones who raise the salaries for teachers! I serve you interested. The municipality had to cut all the investments. It wasn't a poor community, it had a balanced budget. A friend of yours writes that next year there will be no sustainable budget, there is no possibility. It cuts out all investments, as much as possible, due to the increase in teachers' wages, and will not carry out the tasks they had planned in the multiannual investment plan. In conclusion, the government may have a balanced budget, but at the expense of imbalanced budgets in municipalities, because this burden shifts to local governments and, breaking the constitution, fails to fulfil the tasks imposed on the government. Ladies and gentlemen, accept these amendments. I call for amendments on education, because the situation in education is starting to get dramatic. Today it is imperative to react and to bear in mind that this is a bit of a delayed ignition bomb. Well, today we were attacked by a coronavirus and today we're gonna try to deal with it. And when it comes to education, education reform and the fact that these tasks are being shifted to the shoulders of local governments, and unfortunately local governments don't have the money to deal with it, it's a delayed-fire bomb. I would like to ask you to accept amendments, especially on education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would very briefly like to ask for the support of my amendment, which concerns not health, but the Beskidska Integration Way. This investment is being moved all the time. And I must say that it was very much sought by the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło, because this concerns our region, the Euroregion of Podbeskid. I have tabled such an amendment concerned that this investment is still delayed and that it is due to be implemented in the years 2024 and 2027. And I want to tell you that this is a very important road, this is the ring road of 12 municipalities, including Andrychow, Wadowice, which leads from Bielska-Biała to Głogoczów. The node, which is to be included in the plans, is in such a very characteristic place for Bielsk, which is called popularly, is called the corner of idiots by the inhabitants. There's an accident every day because our western ring road turns at almost 90 degrees, so it's a lot of accidents. Therefore, apart from the fact that the road would improve traffic in our area, it would also change the fact that many people are killed on this corner and there are traffic collisions. This is my amendment and I would like to ask you to lean on it. I would also like to speak on health protection, because, as you know, I am a doctor, an active doctor, and I am a non-professional senator. I'm not gonna talk about myself in the first person about my success, because everyone who's sitting here has their own success. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that medicine of the 21st century is medicine that can be compared to a speeding train. It's a pendolino. If Poland does not take over the division of specific steps in the health system, we will fall off this train. There's a human factor in all of this, which means we're talking about intern doctors, resident doctors. And here I can boast, so modestly, that in my Department of Cardiology and Cardiooncology in Bielsko-Biała I get 20 interns every year, this is the most in the Bielsko district, because about 5 and 10 come to other units. And we educate about 9 residents. And, ladies and gentlemen, neither the director nor we, as managers, pay these trainees any more. We try to create a good atmosphere and share knowledge. But right now, there's definitely a doctor's profession bill on the wallpaper. We're going to work and work on how doctor training is going to look like, who's going to be responsible for it, whether the doctors who train the next doctors are going to be able to be grateful for it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last moment to take such action, because you know very well, the medical records indicate that we are in danger of a generational hole. 30% The health needs of Poles are secured by doctors of pensioners who work actively. This is very much in relation to other countries of the European Union. If we do not stop young people in Poland, we will not give them the opportunity to train in the specializations they wish, in accordance with the needs that they have in Poland, then we will do nothing. We will not do anything, we will not be able to treat Poles and Poles in our country. And I would like to call on us to prepare ourselves well for this doctor's profession law and really assess, as Senator Necessary said, the need for beds, but also health needs, so what specialties we lack, why people cannot educate in those specializations that they dream of, in Poland, whether we really need to help doctors from Ukraine, how they are supposed to nostricate their diplomas so that they can pursue the profession of doctor in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bury will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Gentlemen and ladies! Budget. This budget for me, for a person who conducts an economic activity, is a budget that is adopted only because we have an election year. It's a propaganda budget. It is not a development budget, it is a consumption budget. There's a lot to talk about here. Many wise words were also spoken from this pulpit. I'm only afraid of one thing. The budget is so constructed, so much the government wants to give away money, so much wants to win the presidential elections that it is ready to sell Poland, the future of Poland, just to achieve its goal. I am reminded of the words of Jarosław Kaczyński, who, perhaps three weeks ago, gave an interview for.Forbes. He said: my vision of Poland is worth sacrificing the economy. And this is the economy we want to devote to the vision of Poland that Jarosław Kaczyński has. First of all, revenue is also included in this budget, which is one-off and will be burdened with the next budget, because the proceeds from 5G sales will not appear next year. The same will be true of the proceeds from the transfer of funds from OFE to IKE, of those 15% The tax that the PiS government wants to introduce. He wants to take over 20 billion zlotys out of the money of Poles who put away for retirement just to deliver on their electoral promises. Unless the PiS government plans that it will not only be this year, it will take another 15 billion or 20 billion next year, this time with the IKE. Who's gonna stop them? Well, if the president's on this side of the force, maybe we can stop them from taking that money out of our pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one amendment. Perhaps this will be the only amendment from Eastern Poland, because I belong in the Senate to a few representatives of the Civic Coalition from this side. I would like to ask that we move 40 million PLN from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. We have the largest law firm right now, the largest government in Europe, I think, and there's no big deal, and his expenses, as we've talked about here, are huge, too, so that 40 million is not going to be much. What's it gonna be for? In Lublin a few years ago, the Centre for Oncology of the Lublin Land, COZL, was established. It expands, people heal there. Interestingly, COZL is managed by marshals, as I call it, i.e. by the Marshal's Office of the Lublin Voivodeship, where most of them have colleagues from PiS. New troops have been built. Someone forgot only a detail about the equipment. The troops are ready, but we don't have the equipment. That $40 million would be to equip this hospital, which is ready to treat people. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's like buying a car and saying, "Great car, look what a cool car I bought, but you know what, next year we're gonna be driving this car because I don't have gas. That's the situation. So that I ask all my colleagues on the one hand and on the other side of the political scene: let us bow down to this, let these chambers not stand empty. I'm making this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been discussing the budget for Poland for several hours, the budget for 2020. I listened to most of the speeches and I will repeat what I said last year, although the budget wasn't as good as this one. Well, in fact, I deeply sympathize with the opposition senators that they must invent so many counter-arguments against this budget, and this is the budget, as has already been said, the best in the last 30 years. Besides, you don't have to be a mathematician, you don't have to be an economist, you don't have to be very nuanced... Enough in the economy, as every housewife does, who looks at how much she has, how much she has, how much she can spend, how much she needs... So you don't have to be a professional to understand the main principles of budget design. So much bile spilled here, so much hate, so much envy. Where does this come from when we should be happy that Poland has been on the road to success for several years. This is not just for the politicians of Law and Justice. It's not about us at all, it's not just about our families, it's for society as a whole. Maybe I'll just remind you. In 2011, the Civic Platform planned a budget revenue of 273 billion. In 2015, income is 287 billion, with a 50 billion deficit. This is the budget we received from you, winning the elections in autumn 2015. So for 4 years, from 2011 to 2015, you have enlarged the country... you took care to provide Poland and Poles with more resources, more money for development, in the amount of only PLN 14 billion. In 4 years we have generated 148 billion PLN. What are we talking about here? Mr. Senator, would you please subtract 287 billion... Mrs. Senator... ...from 435 billion and you'll have the sum I'm talking about. But I'm not discussing it with you. Could you possibly ad vocem to my statement... Maybe not ad vocem, but another five minutes of your time. So in 4 years we have brought PLN 148 billion to Poland and Poles. Where do you get the money? Well, you can have money as a result of some luck, winning at the casino, winning a lottery ticket, you can get an inheritance, you can not pay taxes, you can take bribes, you can get involved in some corrupt activities. The Polish government increases revenue through hard work. Nothing new, I'm just gonna say with prayer and work, people get rich. It's a commentary on our budget. I can't understand... As you must work now to criticize this budget. And now a few words about oncology, which has become such a flagship topic of yours in discussing this year's budget. I've been an oncologist for twenty years, and it's not the kind of conditions I've been working for. I've never used my patients as a shield and I haven't blackmailed any government, not even the SLD government, which was the worst government for health care since 1989. The terrible decisions of the SLD government... First of all, the abandonment in the 1990s, and then, after 2001, when the SLD again included governments, fatal decisions stopping the reform initiated by the Action for Election Solidarity together with the Union of Freedom. It's true that we have 160,000 new diseases a year. It's true that 100,000 cancer patients are dying. It's true that in 50 and 70 percent We can protect ourselves from these cancers by applying the principles of a healthy lifestyle. This isn't new. We have known this since the 1970s, when the Canadian Minister of Health developed a pattern of Lalonde's fields, where he showed that, in fact, health services of all societies depend on about 12 ,at most. The rest is genetics, environment, and mostly lifestyle. That's all we know. To accuse the government, our government, of doing nothing, even in the field of prevention... You just don't know the facts. Please, one at a time. In 2017, cigarette packaging in line with EU guidelines. Before that, no one was freaking out about it. We brought it in. Will it affect those who already smoke? No. But some are certainly discouraged, because the decrease in the number of smokers in Poland, although insufficient, is noticeable. In 2018, January The act on the safety of solarium use, the presidential law, a law aimed at halting the increase in cases of extremely dangerous cancer, which is malignant melanoma. Last year in May The National Oncology Strategy, for which money has been allocated, such as no government has committed to any other programme. Even for this national health program that's been around for years. There was annual financing at the level of PLN 200 billion. From next year we will finance it at the level of 450 billion, and in a few years' time at the level of 500 billion PLN. Now we're working. There's still a debate on it. The Sweet Drinks Tax Act to prevent obesity as one of the major risk factors for breast diseases. Pilotage of oncology networks, creation of specialist breast treatment centers, so-called Beast units. You can check it out, there's no megalomania or untrue. I am the first person to promote the formation of breast units in Poland. Since 2003, I have been with my colleagues from the Donna Coalition, whose president I am, at meetings of the Health Commission during the PO. It is our government that has dealt with this so that such centres are already being created and there is a green light to create further. There is growing revenue in the budget that can be allocated to health care. Mr. Senator, this is no mercy? Then why didn't the P.O. government give us that kind of grace? And it wasn't... He didn't pass on his health contributions? He did, but smaller, because he didn't care if there was less unemployment. This income is growing... Oh, that's right, you have an answer. The economy is growing, yes, the economy is growing. Mr. Senator, please don't interrupt... In 2015, we have 7.1 billion, and by 2020, there are 11 billion, but that is not all, because these are only funds that are earmarked for contracting oncology services by the National Health Fund. There's still 800,000 to build an oncology center. This isn't oncology? We need a modern research center, a centre that will determine criteria and treatment patterns for cancer. We also have PLN 250 million for this year for the National Oncology Strategy. So this is still over PLN 1 billion 300 million more than the PLN 11 billion that the NFZ will have at its disposal. You don't remember if you don't want to remember that over 2 million patients over the past seventy-five years have taken free medication. We left over PLN 1 billion 300 million in the pockets of pensioners over seventy-five years of age. And that's also revenue, health expenses. There are 16 dentobuses who have already visited 1 thousand 55 towns. And maybe I'll talk about HR. About the situation that's going to happen right now, the situation that the senators are talking about... It's true. I am an example of this, I am a doctor who does not leave his job despite the acquisition of pension rights because there are no oncologists in my city. But the Civic Platform government already knew about this situation in 2010. I was part of it myself. As a voivodship councilwoman, but also as a doctor from the Lower Silesian Medical Chamber in such studies. Already then it was known that at that time there would be so many and so many retired doctors, so many and so many doctors would leave because about... This growth, when it comes to doctors' trips, has been inhibited, and this is also a sign that health care is not so bad. The Civic Platform government has done nothing in this direction. If he did then what our government did in 2016, when we started increasing every year by 1,000 students at medical dorms, then today, after 10 years, I take into account the entire cycle of doctor training. We could already say colloquially, release the first specialists, not just doctors as such. I'll remind you who's been prime minister over the last few years of the Civic Platform's rule. The premiere was a doctor. Well, the premier doctor could have done as much for health care as no other premier would have done, because the doctor knows all this. We can criticize, we may be unsatisfied, because that's not what we want yet. Of course it's not. Polish GDP per capita is 70% the EU average. Even the Czech Republic has an advantage over us because they have almost 90% of the EU average. Why? In the Czech Republic, health reform was also started in the 1990s, but they didn't have the SLD and PO governments and could lead it all in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Pupa, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The next few hours have passed when we are debating a budget, which is a unique budget on a scale, one can say, the history of the Republic of Poland. It is a historical budget, because it is a balanced budget, a budget in which we do not show the debt of the state, but we show that our country is a capable state, that we are able to maintain a budget that allows us to safeguard the fundamental interests of the Republic of Poland, to safeguard the fundamental interests of citizens. ♪ I remember the times ♪ I'm a senator for 15 years. When there were budgets with huge deficits, when public debt reached huge amounts, when government debt was virtually increasing, when everything was done, various creative accounts were put in place to lead to a situation where there was no visible debt that exceeded 55% GDP. Today we are dealing with, you can say, a phenomenon. This is the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, which has prepared a balanced budget that protects the fundamental interests of citizens, but also offers development opportunities. I will remind you that during the last few years, during almost five years of rule of law and justice, the Polish government has not sold out national assets, did not sell out family silvers, but has just bought it all back from, you can say, investors who had previously bought our national property. We are doing this so that the Polish economy can grow. Poland's economy, if we do not have its banks, if we do not have our businesses, if we do not allow citizens to take various kinds of economic initiatives, will not be able to develop. Well, you can't talk about economic development here, and for the last few decades, you can say that's what happened in our country. We were rid of all this under the motto, one can say restructuring of the Polish economy as well as privatisation of the economy. And it was best to sell out the economy for a small sum, often for a priceless price. I remember how the sugar factories privatized. At the time I was a senator responsible for the sugar regulation law and I saw how it was done and how national assets were squandered when it came to Polish sugar factories, and what later was done with Polish sugar factories, when AWS gave power and another team came. And today we have a problem. We've got a problem with this kind of thing... The government is currently trying to set up a food holding company only to give an opportunity and strengthen Polish entrepreneurs, Polish agricultural producers, one can say, in this section of the economy, which is agriculture. And we have a huge problem because the external capital that has entered our country's market has led to such a situation that it has dominated our economy in this regard. We have a problem. I recall that when the German delegation arrived, then Members complained that we had a flood of external goods, including German goods. They said: 'We are glad that you buy our goods, that there is interest in our goods and our economy.' I remember when the Italians and the then chairman of the agricultural committee Gabriel Janowski drew attention to the privatisation of banks, one could say, meaningless which led to problems in our economy. We opened our eyes more and more with surprise and looked at it. It shouldn't be like that, but that's what happened. Today I ask the Minister what is the service of foreign debt, how much it costs our state budget. It turns out that PLN 27 billion 600 million. That's an unimaginable amount. That's what it costs, for example. service of our country's debt. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Senators, the High Izbo, are actually facing such an adventure that the prepared budget is emphasized once again. It gives us the chance to be able to manage and manage national assets properly and to emerge from debt, standing, you can say, in a number of the richest countries in the world. This is also proof that the economy is doing well, that the economy is going in the right direction. And the fact that there are needs, the fact that there are expectations... We all know that. This budget also responds to these expectations and this budget fits in with a certain chronology of future solutions that must exist in our country, and undoubtedly the expected solution is to resolve the issue of medical care. I don't use the words "health care," because "health care" practically goes slowly to a lamus, or actually left. There aren't many doctors who try to serve their patients. More like most people are focused on making money and doing business in this direction. all this is going in our country as well. I was myself, and I'm an oncology patient because I've been diagnosed with cancer twice. I'm a cancer patient who somehow comes out of this disease, and I know what it looks like inside, and I know what it's all about. Today it is really a call to reorganize medical care, to reorganize the structure that is at the moment, but it requires deep consultation. It can't be that a group of doctors sits down and discuss changes in medical care and set up, you can say, the whole arrangement underneath. Here you need a manager who sees the overall problem, sees the whole issue of medical care. There are solutions in Europe and there are solutions in the world. They point to some problems that should also be addressed in our country. It is a pity that these problems are not really solved and that the opposition does not see it either and does not address those issues which would be important for the introduction of good rules of medical care in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal for reason. I would ask that we do not speak to each other and quote the words of President Kaczyński, who never fell because this is practically an impossible situation to think that from this House and from this tribune we are trying to cast slander. And that's what I'm calling for, and that's what I'm asking. I hope that the state budget will be understood and accepted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Szejnfeld will speak. Here you go, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! On many occasions yesterday and today we heard in this House the gloria, the glory, the litany of praise for this 2020 budget as a historical budget. Well, the word "historical" was changed here by all cases, and the Member also... Senator. ...maybe he's repeated it a thousand times, only this story can't be seen unless we're dealing with such an assessment that it's a historical case of political manipulation, public, social, but also bookkeeping. And that's the worst part. You manipulate the public, claiming that this is a balanced budget. As I said, this manipulation has a historical dimension, because such propaganda of success has not been in place at least since the Polish People's Republic. There are a lot of people who remember the times of the Polish People's Republic, especially the 1970s, so this analogy is probably very clear and visible. What a horse it is, everyone can see. We are dealing with an absolute collapse in health care, we are dealing with financial tragedy in education and education, local governments in Poland never for these 30 years... If we are to talk about history, 2020 will be just a historical year, because we will have 30 years of Polish small homelands' uprising and activity. And it's never been that bad financially. Many municipalities are facing bankruptcy, a huge number of local governments Not only municipalities, cities, but also powiats are concerned about the investment process in their territories. Investments are cut, limited in budgets for 2020, as there is a lack of money for self-financing for local governments, as they need to complement the necessary expenditure that does not result from their own tasks. Unfortunately, from the state budget, subsidies and subsidies do not receive the money that should be provided in accordance with the law and not just the needs that are always greater. And in the context of something like that, Sorry about the word. That's bullshit? I mean, that's complete bullshit. Who are you talking to? Do you take these twenty million adult citizens in Poland for people who can't completely understand anything, read, analyze, listen, watch, understand nothing? Yes? All you have to do is tell them a thousand times the historical success, and in the first thousand times, twenty million adults will believe it. Yes? No, it's not. In a few sentences, because unfortunately, it's time to sum up your historical manipulation and your historical lie... Because it's a historical lie that this is a balanced budget... Oh, Jesus. In a few sentences about the economy, and especially about entrepreneurship. I talk to entrepreneurs and I know that the special situation concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, and the owners of these companies are actually shaking in fear of the future. The rules, yes, were and are complicated, but the state isn't doing anything to reduce this complexity, there's no deregulation process. That's not enough, you're introducing new legal burdens, but also financial, tax charges. Summa summarum over the past five years of the rule of law and justice has faced more than 40 cases of tax increases, the introduction of new taxes, new fees, new contributions. It's all a burden on business, and they feel it every day on their skin. I spoke to the owner of the company a few days ago, who only employs six people. And he says, "We work 6 days in 6 people, but on our company, we spend 4.5 days in business, because 1.5 days it takes us to do administrative and financial duties." So this way, of course, the national good will not multiply. A good example of nonsense in terms of justification, because it is different in terms of idea. There's a sugar tax. Practically nowhere in the world where this solution has been applied has the financial burden of sugar consumption been reduced. The only effect is to burden entrepreneurs, increase the cost of business, pass it on to customers, consumers and fill the state with another new tax, because this money will serve only the government, not the reduction of sugar consumption. The idea is, of course, the right one, only the instrument... They don't care about their health, they pay more. ...only the instrument was used improperly. Like we're pioneers in the world or in Europe, it's okay, because we can make mistakes when we go first, in the point. But we're on our tails, and everyone who's gone this way hasn't reached that goal. Sugar consumption is still high in those countries where taxes have been introduced. And then you're not spending that money on health care in the state budget. You're spending it on your own. Read the bill. What is the effect of this supposedly pro-economic activity, which is supposed to be pro-communicative? Namely, inflation is going up, wages are talking about those that burden mainly small employers They go up, the price of electricity, which is in most companies at the core cost of business, goes up, the price of gas goes up. The result? Unemployment goes up, too. Unemployment goes up, an increasing number of companies restrict business activity. There are those that eliminate their branches, their subsidiaries, to defend themselves against your economic policy. There are those that close. On my turf, I'm sorry to see... As an example, I can give the factory of porcelain production in Chodzież, a symbol of the city, a symbol of northern Wielkopolska. The company's been shut down lately. Asking for help to the government to support It's like a pea against a wall. This is a very difficult industry. The market for porcelain production in Europe has been very difficult for years and is difficult to maintain without state support. But if there were no burden on the state, it would be possible. Because the main burden there is the minimum wage, it's the price of electricity and the price of gas. It all went up to the point where you couldn't keep the company, and the state didn't want to help any other way. Porcelain's dead. Walking It's a great city, a great company... there isn't. The city is, the company is gone. Congratulations to the PiS government and congratulations on the historic supposedly sustainable budget. It would be enough to add a few zlotys to make it unbalanced, and China might continue to function. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, there would be a lot of flaws, burdens and shortcomings in this budget, without any problem just to prove It is a historical lie that it is a balanced budget. But there are not many projects there, many investments that are needed. Of course, this concerns the whole of Poland, but I have the duty and pleasure to look at the district from which I was elected. And what I'm trying to say is that I'm amazed to see another case. I'm going to use it in quotes. Greater Poland, of which Northern Wielkopolski. I am thinking here of plans or, in fact, no plans for the implementation of investments in the S11 expressway, and particularly important, important bypasses on this route. I come from Kalisz, I was there even a few days ago, and I think it's a drama for this town that you don't build Kalisz's ring road. But in the north The Greater Poland is absolutely necessary bypass Obornik and bypass Piła These cities, of course, are already suffocating not only from the number of cars, but also from the smog that poisons the lives of inhabitants, including children. After all, the mouth is a tiny town, through which the absolute center passes this road. If you'd skip the damage to the building, if you'd skip the damage to traffic, the communications, the waste of time, if you'd just skip the damage to the climate... But you can't ignore damage to people, including children. After all, they have to live, and they go to school, they come back from school, kindergarten all the time in this stench and these fumes. Just two sentences, Mr. Marshal. Circuit, infrastructure known case. I would just like to remind you that it is absolutely necessary to revitalize the railway road of the Blacks. Hungerfish or the PKP station... the underground passage, because the station was us in the days of the Civic Platform and the PSL repaired. But one more thing I'd like to say is that it's symbolic... Mr. Senator... Now, now, just a word. You talk a lot about history, about tradition, about respect for the past. So I would like to say that in Pila we have a historic, historic steam station, something that is a wonderful element and a reminder of the greatness of the Polish National Railways. And you haven't given a penny in five years to revitalize her. This is an absolute scandal! And I would like to say, Mr Marshal, that I am making amendments concerning, firstly, the construction of the bypass of the Saw, and secondly, this historic, traditional steam station. If you want to talk about history, don't talk about the historical budget balanced, because it's not there, just say you want to historically give big money to revitalize, bring back to life the historical steam station in Pila. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. I remind all senators that we have a ten-minute rule limit. I find it awkward to draw your attention, because I like to speak, which is a feature of parliamentarians. I try to treat all the participants in this debate fairly, regardless of where they come from, and I allow everyone to prolong their speeches, but I would ask you very much that you be my liberalist... ...they didn't push it. ...they didn't abuse. And now Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who in turn allowed me to discover the profescistic abilities, because I predicted that you would have a second speech. And five minutes for them according to... What does "professive" mean? That means I can predict the future, Senator. Okay, thanks. So I predicted the future, I predicted your second speech. Alien Dictionary. I didn't understand. Do you want me to take it next time or memorize it? Okay. It's over, Mr. Senator. And please don't anticipate... It's go time. And I... Start time and five minutes this time, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! I'm not hiding that it's awkward for me to attack you, to argue with you. One more time. I come from self-government. I've dealt with the SLD for 17 years, and I've dealt with the PiS as a president independent and partyless. It's awkward for me to argue with you, but I can't agree with some of the theories that fall in this room. And it's not about attacking you with venom, because there's enough venom on national television, just turn on TVP Info, there's venom spilling every day, every minute. So I don't want to do it. But I must protest against the false claims that fall in this courtroom... Excuse me? You said something to me. Is this a waste of time? No, I'm saying Jesus... Ladies and gentlemen, so... Please refrain from commenting... I'm not commenting. ...especially rubbing themselves against one of the commandments which speaks of calling upon the name of the Lord God in vain. It wasn't in vain. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many times here, also from the senator, we are, we are, we are, we are. I'll answer you, Senator: we are. We do. My city, when I became president, had 42 percent unemployment, we were in total ruin. It was stench, dirt and poverty. And for 17 years, this city has really changed, under different governments. Various governments were then, from different parties, and SLD ruled, and PiS ruled, and Jarosław Kaczyński etc. We're the ones who made this town rise from the ruins. We're the ones who brought it to this in my small town that... I'm the one who, if you don't mind me saying so, built 200 hectares of industrial space. I'm the one who attracted investors. I'm the one who made unemployment fall from 42% to 0%. I'm sorry to say this to you, but I'm answering what you said, we're answering it, we're answering it. No. It's us, ma'am. Economic development of Poland is primarily the activity of local governments. It was in local governments that entrepreneurs and self-governments built roads, armed zones and led to unemployment falling. With unemployment falling, wages have increased, and higher wages are higher taxes, such as PIT, CIT and other taxes. So we have led to the development of Poland. And no one can tell me that in 2015, when there was a famous press conference, Prime Minister Szydło in New Salt... She was talking about Poland in ruins. No, ma'am. In 2015, the Council Poland was not in ruins. She wasn't. She was in ruins in 2002, when I took over the city. So please don't say "we". It is we, as a nation, as self-governments, as entrepreneurs... Not the government. The government manages the money we've worked out. So I'm asking you to keep these proportions. I didn't pray, I worked. You know, I'm Catholic. Only it wasn't my prayers that helped, it was my hard work. I repeat once again: from 42% to 0%, 200 ha of factories, now a factory is being built in my city, 100,000 m2 under the roof, a food factory is being built, another 30,000 m2 under the roof, and more factories are developing. These factories are gonna hire people, people are gonna pay taxes, tax revenues are gonna get bigger. And whose credit is that? Ours. Set it up. Set it up. Set it up? That's due to the laws? What happened in New Salt is due to the laws? Please don't argue like that, Senator and Senator... And I'm gonna repeat what I said again. You talk very often about a balanced budget. I'm not gonna mistreat this budget, I'm not even gonna say he's some kind of dramatic bad guy. Maybe this is, as far as we can think, a relatively good budget. But remember what I said. This budget is largely balanced at the expense of local governments. The cost of self-government. Self-governments of their budgets will not balance. And if there are locals in the courtroom, I think they know what I'm talking about. I hope you agree with me. I'll be happy to talk about my experiences, about a balanced budget and debt-taking. My city was in debt at some point at 60%. When I left, it was 10%. In a minute, maybe it'll be 60% again. investment, multi-annual investment plans, multi-annual financial plan, etc. are being carried out. This is a long-term trial. You can't say that in 2 or 3 years you can suddenly perform a miracle because we prayed. No, you have to work hard. Finally, I'm just going to talk about reprivatizing banks. So what would Prime Minister Morawiecki say if the privatisation of banks led to the disaster you're talking about? I don't care what bank it is. I'll take the money. We want this money to be cheap. And who owns this bank, on average, I'm interested. I'm interested in cheap money. It would be nice if everything was Polish. Only, ma'am, back in the commune, everything was state-of-the-art, and we don't want to go back to that time. And finally, because I want to be able to fit in these five minutes... They're already passing. Of course, I'm almost done. Just about the enlightenment I really care about. Ladies and gentlemen, the costs and financial gap in the world are growing dramatically. It already amounts to PLN 4 billion 605 million and in the following years... First of all, it grew in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Relation of education subsidies, this part of the general subsidy to GDP: 2004 2.7% , the year 2018 only 2%. And it's falling. And finally... For many years I was the head of the Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship and I know everything about local governments, municipalities, budgets etc. And, ladies and gentlemen, there are municipalities where... In Lubuskie Voivodship, education subsidy covers an average of 61% all expenditure incurred on education which, in accordance with Article, is incurred. 167 constitutions should be financed by the State Treasury. Extreme Only 31% Education expenditure shall be covered by a general subsidy. And don't tell me that a balanced budget is all you've done. It is to a large extent at the expense of local governments, which will cut their expenses, will reduce investment, and at the expense of your constituents. It's going to get worse and worse in your municipalities. You will have a balanced budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Skurkiewicz for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! A few lines, a few reflections. The first one about propaganda, which he mentioned here, among others. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. Senator Szejnfeld forgot how it was at a time when he was probably a deputy minister of the economy, i.e. before the gambling scandal, they were shown on television slides, on which Poland was a green island on this hateful sea of European crisis. Who here today remembers this green island, Donald Tusk's propaganda island, and what's left of it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Wadim Tyszkiewicz speaks so beautifully about local governments. I encourage him to come to Radom, where the President of the Civic Platform rules. He doesn't seem to be able to manage it. Unemployment A dozen percent in the Radom region, on Radom land. So beautiful, so efficient... Then maybe something constructive will come along with the president of the Civic Platform for the people of Radom and Radom land? Ladies and gentlemen, I listened attentively to yesterday's debate as a senator, as a member of the government, and I decided to take the floor and share such a brief reflection on the things discussed here. I cannot accept, as a responsible politician, that words should be thrown to the right and to the left without having any consequences or responsibility for these words, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment that was tabled by Marshal Moravian-Stantack, as I understand it, is the amendment of the Left. It reduces the national defence department's budget by PLN 50 million. It may not be large amounts, but it seems that for the first time there has been such a situation that such an amendment has been tabled. Whether it was law and justice or the Civic Platform, it was not possible to violate the national defence department's budget by law. It's about safety, and there's absolutely no agreement for us to limit security. I know, I understand that you do not like the fact that the Territorial Defence Army is developing, that today we have 26 thousand soldiers of the territorial military service, who, apart from being professionally engaged, also decide to serve the Republic of Poland for good and for bad, in defence of Poland, in defence of its security. I do not understand that the Left cannot understand that there are people in Poland, for whom safety is particularly important and especially close. I hope that you will withdraw from this amendment and from these solutions. How many contradictions were there in the speech yesterday... Later, after the debate, we had a brief conversation with Marshal Borowski about the purchases that the Ministry of National Defence is carrying out today. It is not true that in the budget we spend PLN 30 billion on the purchase of F-35 aircraft. Well, as a live one, ladies and gentlemen, $4 billion 600 million won't give you $30 billion, they won't really give you anything. Little is enough, this money will not be spent in 2020, only this will be spent in a perspective of at least 10 years. Today's decision to purchase a multi-purpose aircraft is not a decision concerning 2020, 2021 or 2022. Today, the Law and Justice Government is deciding what the Air Force will look like in the coming 10, 20, 30, 40 years. This is the determinant of 2060. You're looking through the prism here and now, and that's not what you're looking at today. That's not what he's gonna do today. Ladies and gentlemen, we may differ, we may disagree on the specific directions of the development of the Armed Forces, but I will repeat once again: today's decisions are made in the perspective of 30 and 40 years, because so many of these aircraft will serve in the Polish army, because so many of these ships will take care of the safety of Poland, Poles and our borders. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's not true... Because your marshal said yesterday: why do we need planes that have a range of 1,000 200 km? Oh, no! MiG-29 has a range of 1 thousand 700 km, with an additional tank of 2 thousand 100 km. So this question should absolutely not be asked here in the Senate. And it shouldn't fall out of the Senate Vice Marshal's mouth at all. And so abstracting from everything: the range of the F-35 is over 2,000 200 kilometers. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the issue. And to conclude, there's one more thing about health care. Yesterday, there were various words concerning the amendment to life. The senators are sitting here, with whom I had the honour and honor to sit in this House a few years ago, in the previous Senate terms, when I tabled amendments concerning the Radom Land Oncology Centre, amendments for life. It was about the Radom Land Oncology Centre, and Radom was also the Minister of Health, and later Prime Minister of the Government of the Brightest Republic. These were the health improvements concerning the money to start the oncology center. But for the next three years, none of your senators... No one has ever voted in favour of these amendments. No one voted in favour of this amendment. That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, a private initiative that has set up an oncology centre in Radom, private businessmen, professors... You didn't even give them a contract to treat cancer patients. You didn't even give them a contract for the National Health Fund. The first contract, the minimum, was only in 2016, then we increased it; today, the next procedures are financed by the National Health Fund. You didn't give the money, you didn't give the contract, and today you're saying that these are the amendments for life. Yeah, back then, it was a lifesaver. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Necessary. That's the second time, so only five minutes. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Let me repeat what I started from when I first spoke: health has no political colors. And all the governing teams have a lot on their conscience. I'm not even gonna say they have a lot on their conscience. As much as I remember it, I know it. I wish Mr. Marshal could give me an hour, 'cause I could tell you for an hour which crew did what wrong. But today we are where we are, and we are discussing the current problems. Mr. and Mrs. Senators of the PiS, you are now kind of complaining that criticism is falling on the PiS. Well, that's the privilege of governing. If you're in charge, you're being criticized. Well, that's how it looks, that's how it is, and that's how it's gonna be; it has to happen. But she fell on you guys... As far as health care is concerned, you've got some bad luck. One bad luck concerns the number of doctors. Well, the time came when those doctors who were trained in the 1970's, 80's, when there were a lot of doctors graduating, when medical schools were set up, and those medical schools were just training more doctors. And today, this larger group is retiring. Since the mid - 1990's, few doctors have been trained and this is how it looks. So it's a bit of bad luck, but it's just a situation that you don't blame, but it is, and you have to face it. And today it seems a little like that that you're like that cyclist who's driving at the end of the peleton, driving faster, driving more and more hard, looking down, putting a lot of effort into it, speeding is improving, actually it's better, but he raises his eyes and sees that he's still at the end of the peleton. Well, unfortunately, it is. We're still at the end of Europe. We're even starting to stand down a little bit, even though we're going faster, and we're not taking that away from you. It's just that you have to go. even faster, change gear, speed up, overtake others, not brag about the fact that we're going faster, just that we're still at the end. It's not a success. There's still a thing. Let's say, your... what you might be able to unfortunately put into the PiS after years is that we now have economic growth, we have good times. Health services, health care have always been ignored, it has always been said that the budget has problems, no money, we have to wait for better times. Better times have come, and improving the way it should be, there isn't. So what happens if it slows down? Again for 20 years we will hear that we cannot build hospitals, we cannot renovate, we cannot make various investments, because the situation is difficult and the contribution cannot be raised. Tough situation, you have to wait for better times. This is a serious charge because today it is indeed economic growth and the influence of this should be devoted to growth, a significant increase in healthcare expenditure, and this is not happening, that is not the proportion it should be. That's a real charge. A debt of 14 billion. Hospitals that are unexploded, pay loans, pay interest on loans, are charged annually. Instead of treating people, these millions, hundreds of millions, and who knows if it's not a billion or more on a national scale, it all goes to pay off interest-bearing loans to banks. This money affects hospitals from the NFZ and is not transferred to treatment because the hospital has to pay off old debts. There are a lot of hospitals like this, and, as we know, these debts are growing. This is something that needs to be interrupted, this spiral of debt must be interrupted, not done by hospitals themselves. This is too big a structural problem, but it is not such a big problem for the budget. Of course, the Left is behind the 500+ programme, and we're very happy that it was introduced, but once I thought that the program was six months behind, which is the introduction of this programme, just like you had in the program and like this. You did, but a six-month delay and the use of that money to protect your health would lead to the extension of all hospitals. So this is not a great effort, since 20-year debt can be repaid by the six-month budget of the programme that is being introduced. It's not like there's no money and it can't be done. This is some kind of misconception. That's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, how many hospitals are in 100-year-old buildings? What are our medical conditions? What kind of rooms are sick people in? It really takes a lot of investment. And I hope that they will be done. This is the Minister... It's been five minutes. Is it time? Yeah, it's been five minutes. I'm just finishing up. Just a word to the minister because he dropped something from the Left, and I'm a representative of the Left. I believe that there is also a lack of funding for the Armed Forces in a balanced budget. Where are our submarines? Where are our new tanks? They're hidden in a balanced budget because they're not there. We buy some old tanks, renovate them, rent old submarines. I don't want to develop it anymore because there's no time for it, but it's also something that's hidden. We have a balanced budget, and investment for national security has also been abandoned. And last but not least, I'm making 4 local amendments, for which Częstochowa and the surroundings are waiting for a very long time. They concern the Częstochowa theatre, the construction of the intersection, investments in the stadium of Rakow and preparation for the process of renewal of the Częstochowa voivodship, which I hope will happen soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor... Senator Ożog. Ten minutes. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u32	I'll try less. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak, but I was inspired by some of my colleagues who, like me, have quite a rich, long local government pedigree. Senator Adam rightly pointed out that this is a special year, because we celebrate the 30th anniversary of Polish self-government. After all, it was the local government that changed the image, the view of our villages, cities, towns, powiats, regions of Poland. We have to remember that. Maybe a little history. Access to funding from the state budget and various foundations and funds, the ease of access to it ended practically in 1996. And that's when the problems of local governments started. As part of the pilots, because it was possible, I took over the running of primary schools in 1993. The education subsidy was enough for me for kindergartens, schools and maintenance of the administration team. Since 1996, as I said before, this has started to spoil a bit. Ladies and gentlemen, today the funding of the local government takes place through the income law j.s.t. of 2003 as amended. Then, as 1 of 12 members of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, I asked and argued: let's start working on this important document by counting costs, because here should be the calculated costs, given amounts, the starting base for the development of a good income law j.s.t. It's said here, it's said many times, it's said by colleagues. I'm trying to understand. The financial situation of the local government is particularly difficult at the moment. I agree, it's difficult, but let's see what happened. At the end of 2007, local government debt was below 5%. I'm talking about the share of the local government sector in total debt. The year 2012 came, the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013, and there were problems with education. At that time, the education subsidy was 68% of the cost on average. Local government companies came up with an initiative to develop and prepare a new law. For the good of the case, it was not a new law, it was an attempt to raise the stake in PIT. It was called a "Stawka" greater than 8 billion. At the time, local governments calculated that 8 billion zlotys were missing, although bank experts calculated that about 12 billion zlotys were missing. There was a citizens' initiative, over 200,000 signatures were collected. And what happened? Nothing. For the change, for the trash. At First Reading As a parliamentarian, I worked on this amendment of the law, of course on the side of local government. This was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, earlier... Why was this the case in 2012? This was not only for substantive reasons, but also for political reasons. Because in 2011 the campaign slogan was the need for a new law on the income of local government units. That was point number one or number two when it comes to gradation of importance in a certain bias program. And what happened? It's okay. To this day, local government officials are getting louder and louder. And you're right. They are asking for a new system solution. Come on. I was talking about over 8% of the debt of the local government sector vis-à-vis all public debt in 2012. According to data for the previous year it is about 7% , probably less than 7% But it's far too much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not make any amendments. My words, my request, I address all of us. In an atmosphere of mutual respect, let's try understanding in this House to think about developing... maybe not a project so far, but a proposal for systemic changes as regards the income law of local government units. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of this problem. I started with the fact that local governments have changed the picture of our reality, and I'm going to end with the fact that local governments are a partner that I think everyone cares about. The local government has more than 60% of public funding. At least for this reason, let's try to take it seriously, not doing politics, to approach this problem, to face it. Let's try and figure this out somehow. Thank you for your attention. I hope I kept my word, and I didn't cross 10 minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. You didn't pass the time. Please take the floor of Senator Orzechowska, who... Because I've reminded you of all this, Senator, I'll also remind you of the 10-minute limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u34	I should fit in. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think our most important task right now is, in the context of voting on this budget, to ensure our country's security. It is, of course, about financial security. Whether we are from the PiS, whether from the Platform or from the Modern, or from any other political option, we should all be aware that public debt is being lowered by the actions of our government. We must take care of security understood as defence security. When we took power, we had 100,000 soldiers and it was known that they were no defence for Poland. It has been said that other countries of the European Union will protect us, that we are members of the European Union, but in a situation where we have neighbours who are sometimes unpredictable... You know, if you want to take care of peace, you have to arm yourself properly so that these neighbors don't have the temptation to rob our country. The European Union has begun to respect us, although we are repeatedly told otherwise. The respect of the European Union is not that we are patted on our shoulders. It is that we are having specific discussions with us. We're talking about health care. For the first time in Olsztyn's nursing home for many years more nurses have applied for the right to pursue their profession than there have been this year's graduates. I was at graduation, and I was happy to hear that nurses who finish their education or undergraduate or undergraduate are no longer going abroad thinking that they will get more. Their hard work here is properly rewarded and they are working with us. We're talking about a small number of doctors. I should be retired too, and I'm still working as a pediatrician, because there are very few pediatricians and the average age of pediatricians is close to the 1960s, which is practically, if you count correctly, almost everyone should leave. But it's not a policy effect of last year or two years, it's a multi-annual policy. Young doctors, who actually have much more to do with specialization. It's known that it must be some years before they finish it and work. Self-government... I was a county councilman, too. I know what it looks like. No self-governmentman has the money he's worked out himself. That's the money someone else worked for, and the local government has that money. And indeed, good local authorities can make the most of them and take care of the development of their locality, their region. And when it comes to banks, it is known that if the bank is Polish, it is a bank that also cares about our interests... E.g. SKOK-i. ...and any foreign banks that have had all kinds of facilitations and which are the majority of us care about their own interests. Oh, yeah, my own, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, revenue and expenditure are balanced. That is why I think it would be worth voting in favour of this budget without amendments. And we all know that no matter how much money there is, we could always use more, but it is our job to make sure that economic development continues and that these revenues are greater. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I listened remotely to these discussions and, like my colleague, I was not going to speak, but Senator Tyszkiewicz certainly inspired me to do so. I agree with one thought of the senator, and I agree with that. Namely, you said that this is the optimal budget in this economic situation and in this world situation which is. And thank you for your insights, senator. However, I cannot agree with two wordings: that the fact that we have, as my colleagues have repeatedly stressed, a balanced budget for the first time in 30 years, is due to local governments and the effect of pushing spending beyond the budget through funds. Yes, sir, it's my credit. First of all, Mr. Senator, over the last years, since 2015. And you as a self-government officer, because you've only been a senator for a year, I think, will confirm that even on the example of your commune, you've grown your income. Your income was growing... Thanks to me. Thanks to you? Well, you know, I haven't heard one of the self-governments say that this income is growing because the Polish state, however, sealed the tax system, that it did have such an economic policy, Mr. Senator, that this loaf grew and this share grew. After all, local authorities participate in various taxes, mainly in PIT and CIT Because unemployment was falling, income was rising... Well, Mr. Senator, it certainly wasn't because of the president... You're kidding. ...one city or another. This was the responsible economic policy since 2015, led first by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and later by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, that there was successive economic growth, low unemployment and increased tax revenue. If this tax revenue hadn't increased, Mr. Senator, it wouldn't have been 500 plus and your income wouldn't have increased in the municipality. The revenue is growing because of me. Well, you know, there's already been a man who's been talking about me, me, me. I ironize because you say we, we. As far as I'm concerned... You know, yesterday I listened to your speech and there was this part about unemployment. You said that, of course, unemployment is falling, but it is not due to the government. You know, in the whole civilized world, if unemployment falls, it's due to government policy, for example. the Italian Government, the United States, France, Germany or the United Kingdom. As unemployment grows, everyone says that the economic policy of one country or another is bad. I know that you in opposition have such an idea that if something happens well, then aliens are behind it, and if something happens wrong, then of course the government of law and justice is responsible for it. But I'm out of it. I would like to refer to one more point that Senator Klein raised at the committee meeting, namely to push some expenditure beyond the budget. Of course, we are dealing with such a mechanism, but let's say that it has been used for many, many years. Many times, also at the committee meeting Senator Kleina needs this, too. Mr. Senator said he'd like this mechanism to be over. But it's not an accident. This is, Mr. Senator... When one of your colleagues asked us where we're pushing that money, besides this one fund, you didn't really know how to answer that question. You haven't said what expenses we're pushing out of the budget, and you haven't yet fully understood this bond mechanism that we're passing on to universities. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget, so to speak, guarantees us financial stability. Let us remember that today, according to the methodology according to which we have to report to the European Union, we can have a 3% deficit for the whole public finance sector. In this budget, it's 1.2%. We're in debt, debt costs, so we can spend more money on spending. We've got record-breaking, I'd like to stress: record-breaking. Spending in the history of Poland, in the history of adopting budgets of recent years, i.e. expenditure of 435 billion. And for those record expenses, we found cover. You're talking about the fact that there's an accidental income. Of course, yes. But profits from the National Bank of Poland have been for years, smaller or larger, and NBP transfers them to the state budget because it has a legal obligation. If these profits are so high, it means that President Glapiński is pursuing a very responsible policy. If he didn't have those profits, he wouldn't be handing them over. That's because of the exchange rate differences. It's a matter of... There were, of course, various incidental revenues over the years, e.g. from the frequency that the Polish state was selling. Now we have a 15% fee on which there was so much discussion here, but remember, ladies and gentlemen, today we are giving people the remaining money that the government of Donald Tusk has taken from OFE. He threw it in the budget boiler. There was a huge deficit, a debt, and there wasn't enough, so you had to take some of the money out of the open pension funds. We of these people, as if we are absolving, enslaved the Polish society from the remnants that are left. The fee will be one-off, as much as many... But on the scale of what you took from the people of OFE, what will now be the budget of the state as a result of this fee was, let's say, the pennies. I have to talk to you from the Left because I'm a little surprised... Of course, I agree that health care problems are many years old. They began at the time of the rule of AWS, the Union of Freedom, then the economic guru, Mr Leszek Balcerowicz... The 1999 reform introduced the insurance system, i.e. we left the budget system in the financing of health care, we switched to the insurance system, so in general health care has as much money as is paid out of contributions. And then It was probably the year 2000, 1999 or 2000 of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Leszek Balcerowicz, as a result of coalition arrangements between the AWS and the Union of Freedom... I was a student at the time, but at university we watched it too, and the teachers analyzed it. That was when the health care contribution was reduced to 7.5%. And that's where it all started. This contribution was set so low, in a situation where a similar system in the Czech Republic was starting at 9%. With us different governments, and left-wings, and Platform, have tried to increase this contribution a little bit in different ways, slowly, by 0.25% , by 0,5% , part of the contribution was written off, part not written off, which increased the burden for... so that from what I'm going to say, it all started. And so far, regardless of who's in charge, we've been struggling with this wrong decision that was made at the time, which means that at the start of the health care contribution was so understated. This has caused the debt of hospitals and all kinds of problems that have been largely, so to speak, married... This is also the issue of local governments, because then the county authorities, these newly formed ones, took over the county hospitals. Despite various attempts, different governments try to... Also our government has been trying for 4 years, with more or less success, to support this health service. But you need to know what the genesis of those mistakes was. I'm a little surprised to see the senator of the Left, who said that on the one hand there's not enough money for a lot of the right things, and on the other hand, we generally spend too little money on the military, because there are no submarines, etc. Well, you'd have to think about it. Not long ago, some of our fellow citizens in the Senate were accusing us of what we are spending unnecessarily on health care. Here Senator Skurkiewicz, as Deputy Minister, bravely resisted it and took into account a certain perspective, a certain time horizon, which involves expenditure. And now all of a sudden, the Left says, well, not enough money for health care... Well, you'd have to decide, Mr. Senator, a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, you are making many different proposals for expenditure in the framework of the amendments, and these regional amendments, and those amendments which have already been tabled, at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Probably many of the objectives set out in these amendments are right, but the budget is always a choice as to what we are able to spend... Mr. Senator... ...financial resources... If it's been 10 minutes... If that's what the marshal says, then I believe it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u37	It's been ten minutes like one moment. I'd like the floor of Senator Mark... No, Senator Bosacki asked that Senator Bosacki... Good. Senator Bosacki, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u38	Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to refer to the two statements of the PiS senators. One comment is from Senator Orzechowska. She was talking about the fact that the proof of the effectiveness of the PiS government is that no one in Europe pats us on the back, but we have something from this Europe. Well, Dear Senator, it's exactly the opposite. In the coming weeks and months, Poles and Poles will find out. Your suicidal strategy for the interests of the Republic of Poland in Europe, i.e. sitting in a corner, not having any alliances, screaming that everyone is beating you, will be tested in the coming weeks, the furthest months, on 2 issues: in the budget of the European Union, where we will have much less than we should have And you already admit it, but, of course, you blame the European Union, while your incompetent policy is really to blame. and the Fair Transformation Fund; the transition to green energy by 2050. Here the proposal is already detrimental to us, because of your fault, because you do not agree to the right climate policy of the European Union. And even the two billion we could get, we probably won't get, because it's your stubbornness and your baby-like, childish yelling from the corner: "The elders beat us!" Poles and Poles in these 2 cases in the coming weeks or months will see what is the effectiveness of European law and justice policy. And my second point is in the name of the truth in our debate to the three Senators of the PiS who wished to say this morning that they listened to the debate last night. Well, I ask you not to say that, because the debate started yesterday at 7:10 p.m., ended at 10:02 p.m., and at that time there was one Senator PiS, who we applauded twice because of it, and the rest of the Senators PiS weren't there. So you may have been listening on the Internet, but not here in the O.R. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u39	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I think this budget is exciting for a few reasons. We're in a presidential campaign period, and we're in a period where there's a lot of talk about health care. And rightfully, it's not like I'm depreciating the subject. But we need to remember about this context of discussion, about just a rather hot political period. I think that, in view of this political tension at this moment in the public debate, it is somewhat forgotten that this is, however, the historic achievement of the government, that for the first time in 30 years it has been possible to create a budget which is, firstly, realistic and secondly, so-called. a sustainable budget, a budget that reduces public debt and implements what has so far been a dream that has not been achieved. And I would like to draw your attention to the opinion of Dr. Wojciech Miszacho, who is attached to the discussion material on the budget bill, the opinion that was created on behalf of the Senate Office. And this budget opinion is generally positive. Dr. Wojciech Mierzych, as you know, has been Deputy Minister of Finance in the past and specializes in budgetary matters. Of course, he points out in his opinion that, as he claims, tax revenue is at the risk that these 390 billion PLN will not be achieved. But in general, with regard to the structure of the budget as regards assumptions, this opinion is positive. A great many elements of the discussion on regional issues have emerged in the course of the debate. Well, High Izbo, who is watching or listening to budget debates in Parliament, knows that it is always so that there are various local issues that need to be resolved. I absolutely don't depreciate it. Well, unfortunately, everything just can't be done. I remember from the 1990s a Member who was only active on the occasion of the budget law and constantly raised the issue of ensuring the safety of floods. He was so active that he later served as president of one of the cities on the Vistula River for many years. This shows the level of budgetary discussion that citizens listen to and pay attention to these issues. With regard to the revenue of local governments, it is worth mentioning here that the work on this subject is announced, which aims to determine whether to improve the system of providing funding for all levels of local government in Poland. Well, that calls for debate. This calls for debate. For example, in the subject of education funding. Well, let's take small communities... I'm the senator. from northern Mazowsze, from the Ciechanów subregion. Here is the problem of small municipalities, rural communities, whose financial capacity is low. All senators, High Izbo, know very well that the most expensive is the financing of teaching children and young people in small and rural centres. That's because the cost of spending on one student is different here. Well, in the case of a school where there are 50 children, where 8 teachers need to be employed, maintain the building, the unit cost of the child's education process is different than that of a school in a big city, where classes are 35- or 34-persons. That is why I believe that this is one of the elements that should be discussed. Education subsidies are often unable to cover real educational expenditure, especially in smaller, small centres. Large agglomerations somehow cope with this, have much more opportunities to earn their own income. I think so, too. And I would like to add this to this discussion. Perhaps it would be worth considering a return to a pre-war solution that was rational in this context. The government is responsible for the salaries of teachers, the government is sort of a party to all discussions on wage regulation, and the government, which is equipped with the ability to earn its own income, is responsible for the infrastructure, that is, taking care of the building, its maintenance, heating, etc., etc. Perhaps this would rationalise the discussion on whether the subsidy is sufficient or insufficient. The government claims that the subsidy is sufficient, local government officials say it is not enough. I give this as an example, this is one of the areas that would be worth discussing. I think that this announcement by the government about the debate on the financing of local governments is very important, only that it should take place, in my opinion, without the political emotions that are in fact in Poland at the moment, in relation to the presidential campaign. High Izbo, I think this budget bill is a great achievement of the government, because contrary to many economists' opinions, especially those who sympathize with the opposition... When there were further social programmes and social transfers, it was claimed that the budget would not withstand this, that this would result in sovereign debt, that there would be a situation that would lead to a disaster in public finances. Despite such ambitious programmes Even the opposition in the past said that it would be good to do so, but there was no means to do so. At the moment, there is a balanced budget. Moreover, a budget that adheres to all parameters relating to public finance discipline and follows all guidelines or indications or recommendations from the European Commission regarding the budget. For this reason, I think it is very good that we have such a budget, and I hope that this budget will be fully implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u41	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of the senator... Now, Senator Frost. Oh, Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u42	Mr. Marshal, I don't know if I'm going to support any changes in the rules, so that the speaking time will be extended to 15 minutes, because such a statement on instalments is a little out of rhythm. I would like to address one more point raised in Senator Tyszkiewicz's speech. Because I hope that if we agree publicly or support it, however, according to your first opinion, that the budget is optimal, as far as possible, the senator will vote in favour of this budget. I didn't say that. Well, I can't agree with the senator on one more thing. You raised this matter to banks: no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, no matter who owns it, If it weren't for the reorganisation of banks, it was not known what this sector would look like at all, the more so that several large banks, due to their problems in the headquarters, such as Deutsche Bank or Commerzbank, wanted to leave Poland. And that's the derivative. not the situation on the Polish market, but in their home countries. And of course... Well, I'll quote the famous statement by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who said such a very cool slogan, but presenting a certain essence of the matter: why LOT, how is Lufthansa? Then why PKO if it's Deutsche Bank? But we want to have a PKO. And one PKO and the other Pekao. It so happens that as a result of 50 years of communism in Poland, we do not yet have such private capital that would be able to take over a large bank. Therefore, this role must be taken over by the State. And I hope that the next banks will be recolonized. And if there are private Polish investors, we will also be very pleased with this. But, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up very briefly... the budget is expenditure on the one hand and revenue on the other. And this budget is meant to serve something. He should generally serve to implement a certain socio-economic vision to be carried out in a given country. Today, when we adopt the 2020 budget, a balanced budget, a budget in which tax revenue has been really determined... Because I don't think you can question that, since you're the ones who want to increase VAT revenues by PLN 4.6 billion. If you think there's still loose income, then all the more so do you think that the income has been very well planned by the Minister of Finance. Today, in this budget, we are pursuing economic objectives, assuming 3.7%. economic growth, when on the horizon with our largest economic partners, e.g. Germans, the economic downturn is drawing, and these 3.7% It's one of the highest economic growth in the world... Well, maybe not in the world, I didn't analyze it that much, but definitely in the European Union. We have low unemployment, we have stable finances, and on the other hand we can afford to achieve social goals, because this whole economic policy is supposed to serve people. So we're doing our 13th senior pension, we're doing the 500+ program, and we're doing a number of budget raises, and I'm just going to mention the 6-percent increase for teachers; I'm remembering this group as the one that we know still has expectations about its material status. That's why I hope you'll look at this budget like Senator Tyszkiewicz, and despite... well, it's natural that there's some opposition, there's a coalition. I was a councilman, too. In my previous term, I was a senator. I hope you will see that you have never... well, maybe not in your life, but in the last 30 years we haven't had such a situation and such a balanced budget. And I hope that when I speak up, I somehow withdraw and resume my application, probably because of my speech. Mr Marek Borowski, who, as Minister of Finance, has never realized such a budget, although it was probably his dream... So I hope you can support this budget today, Senator. It's not yours, but the one that's pursuing the goals you've been trying to achieve. And I hope that more than 48 senators will express their support for this budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u43	Thank you, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised by your hypocrisy because of the fact that EU subsidies will be reduced, everyone knows. They do not only concern Poland. That's one thing. The budget is bigger. The second point is that when I was in the European Parliament, I met with Polish Members who spoke badly about Poland. No Member from any other country has spoken ill of his own country in the international forum. I was also surprised that Polish representatives, who went there for various debates and meetings, could also speak badly about Poland. When I was at a meeting on equality of women, I heard that women's lack of equality in Poland were just complaining about representatives of Poland, although I think that when it comes to equality, it was us. Let's compare the monetary rates on the jobs concerned or other examples of women's treatment. The least we can do is complain. That's the other thing. Next thing you know, it's... I think Mr. Senator and everyone else heard about it, too. That our MEP asked for an increase in the meat tax. She herself is vegan or vegetarian, so she came to the conclusion that since meat production increases carbon dioxide emissions and also increases gas emissions, these taxes need to be increased. And if they are raised, it is the Polish messenger that will unfortunately owe it to us. So much for this sandbox. When it comes to listening to a debate, I do not know how the senator listens to it while in the courtroom, but when he lives in a parliamentary hotel, the monitor turns on and you can follow the whole debate and more. Indeed, only Senator Tobiszowska was on our side, but you weren't all there either. I think some senators can use this technique. Just turn on the monitor or turn on the Internet to see it. Our debate relates to our Polish economy and our Polish budget, so I think that when it comes to the Union, these comments were not appropriate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u45	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, everything has already been said in this debate on the budget, although, of course, every appearance of the next senator raises some interest in other areas of matters that may not directly relate to the budget, but always relate to some financial affairs of the state. I just want to say a few small things. I'm sure I won't use those 10 minutes. Well, I hope so. I hope I don't get too excited to make the most of my time. I would like to draw your attention. Just for one thing. One senator raised the question of the payment of the National Bank of Poland to the state budget and gave this as such an excellent example of the fact that so much money was paid or will be paid into the budget for this year. I would like to remind the ladies and gentlemen of the senators that so far the practice has been such that payments from the National Bank of Poland were not included in the budget at all, for example because they were always at a high risk and at a time when the budget was designed and even adopted, the amount of these payments was not known. Of course, this year's deposit is high, but not the highest over the years. And for 2015 there was a huge deposit, and for 2011 there was a deposit of probably almost PLN 8 billion. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, The National Bank of Poland probably at that time had even 2 billion PLN of losses. So to say that there is an extraordinary situation with the management of the National Bank of Poland, is to miss the truth. The results achieved by the National Bank of Poland have always been the result of the exchange rate differences, i.e. those things which are independent of the National Bank of Poland. And that's what you should have said. Of course, more of these were done in the budget this year, even if just what we were explaining, I don't want to explain it all over again, but it seems to have escaped the senator who spoke about these issues about bond issues. They are a clear example of the fact that some expenditure simply goes beyond the budget, and these are large amounts. And they're exposed to the one-off revenues that are just appearing in the state budget this year, and from them, these payments, there are far-reaching consequences. Finally, today, I will not speak anymore, but it is worth noting one more thing: the situation concerning the value of Polish companies. Because so much was said here about recolonization, about various other things and about the successes involved, giving an example of this bank. I'm not saying it's a bad decision today, but when this bank was bought from the Italians, the price that was paid for it was that you shouldn't actually pay that much. Only then was there such a political decision that this operation should be carried out. I was paid by various Polish state institutions such a significant amount. Fortunately, this bank was not directly linked to PKO BP, so it remained somewhat competitive between these banks. But of course, thinking about repolonizing everything and nationalizing it, and creating one big company, somewhere in different heads, appears. And a case worth noting is the situation concerning the value of shares of energy companies on the Stock Exchange. Since 2015, their value has been decreasing all the time. I mean, the slightest drop was recorded by Gdansk Energa, but not because there were some special, extraordinary actions of the board. In Gdansk Energa, in other companies, maybe less... Seventh board. In Gdansk Energa there were 7 boards in 4 years, so that several boards were simultaneously on various types of briefings, it was about banning competition and various other things. I think it was a new way to build this class of owners, because every briefing is hundreds of thousands of zlotys for these people and... Middle class. Oh, middle class. It's kind of called a new middle class. And I think there's another... In one of the energy companies, I think another middle class is being built again, because in recent days the board has been cancelled and changed. So all these companies have lost a lot of value, e.g. PGE by more than 40% etc. This is data from the Stock Exchange. The only energy company listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, whose value is growing, is the Czech energy company. And I think it's worth talking about, too, about these great successes in the economy of PiS times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u47	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Frost encouraged me to argue with him. I would love to, but we will have to change the rules, Mr Marshal, and put there that Members... Senators. ...oppositions have a special 15 minutes for polemics with Senator Mroz, because the number of false claims, half-truths, bizarre claims is so great that I would have spent all my time, and it wouldn't have been enough... My colleagues asked me to speak at the end of this debate, saying, you know, maybe we can't make a point, maybe we missed something, so you can tell us about it. Well, I've listened to the whole debate, and it's in the courtroom, and I have to say that everything has actually been said. There's nothing missing here, and it's important to say that this budget is very carefully... But not only the budget, because also the economic and social policies of the government have been analysed here. So, if you don't mind, because it's very important to make it clear what the opposition's main objections are. We here, in this room, are the majority, not the opposition, but in our political reality we are the opposition. To this budget and, more broadly, to the socio-economic policy of the government... I'm skipping the local amendments here and these kinds of issues. There is always a lot of such needs and it is understandable that this is being pointed out. Senator Jackowski said here that the budget is not made of rubber, etc. I remember that when he was in the opposition, he was reporting here after 10 and 15 amendments and somehow it didn't bother him, and today he doesn't report a single one, as if all the problems had disappeared. I would like to make these comments in a few points. First of all, I would say that this budget is, in popular terms, tied to strings. These strings are one year's income. Minister Robaczyński said here that it is not that if they were not, we would have a deficit, because the spending rule would have forced us to make these expenses smaller then. So the spending would be less, but with this extra income, we could increase it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the expenditure is PLN 435 billion, and individual income, these one-off PLN 24 billion. This means that, as a rule, expenditure initially indicated that expenditure could amount to only PLN 411 billion. And last year's expenses amounted to PLN 416 billion. So if it hadn't been for these annual revenues, the situation would have been dramatic, i.e. spending for 2020 would have to be reduced and only thanks to these one-off revenues have it increased. But what happens next year? Well, next year it will be after the presidential election and then, of course, things can happen, but what the consequences for Poles will be, you don't think anymore. As far as the NBP is concerned, I would like to say, in addition to what Senator Klein said here, that the provisions on the allocation of the exchange rate reserve have been specifically amended. Half of the exchange rate reserve can be reserved immediately It's true, isn't it? It's for the budget. Why was this done? Well, that's because the money was missing. Not to mention the fact that he's going to sell out green certificates that should be used for something completely different. And that's the first thing. Second thing. The budget is also... Senator Frost was just talking about the fact that it is also a vision that this budget presents a vision. I don't know what kind of vision this budget is, because the vision is left by you. Then the deputy prime minister. Moravian presented in the famous strategy of responsible development. I'd like to ask who remembers her today. Us. Who remembers? Have you been presented with any report on its implementation? Have they been presented to the public, Poles? No! This strategy is already on the shelf, it's long forgotten. I will remind you, once again, what was in it was: a million electric cars in 2025. There's not even a project yet, let alone a car factory. Luxtorpeda, who was supposed to be driving at 250 km/h, but in the meantime, we need to save Pesa because she's going bankrupt. The drone taboons were supposed to hover over Poland and not only over Poland, it was supposed to be our export specialty. A fleet of ferries in the Baltic was supposed to kill the competition. It's still in there. There's no more keel. It's gone? Oh, I'm sorry. It was, but there's no more keel. 25% GDP on investment... Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we now have a lower rate of growth and we will have an even lower rate in the future is the result of a lack of investment. It's hanging up. It's obvious after a while. It's a result after a while. It's all gone. That was the vision, but this budget is not realising this vision. He doesn't have any vision at all. By the way, about the Ministry of National Defense... It's for Senator Skurkiewicz. Because everyone here was crying so much that the 50 million zlotys that are going to help us will interfere with our safety... They're going to help third world countries. Excuse me? To help third world countries. Yeah, to help third world countries. So they're gonna disrupt our safety... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, I've heard voices like that. Enough, the bill says 2.1%. And here we go: we take 50 million and there's no more 2.1%. There isn't, there isn't. Mr. Senator Frost, I suggest you take a look at page 45 of the budget statement first and then page 77. On page 77 is the amount of military expenditure in defence. That's 49 billion 999 million 906 thousand. Write that down... 996 million. 49 billion 999 million... 996 million. Yes, sir. Very good. Write that down. And take a look at page 45 and see what GDP is projected to be around for 2020 - 2 billion 373 million. Please divide one by the other. You've got... Two trillion. Two trillion. Excuse me, 2 trillion 373 billion and maybe 0.3... Divide one by one and see how much you get. I'm sure you have a calculator on your phone. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sir, I'll tell you how long it takes. It's gonna be 2,106%. When you've deducted 50 million, that leaves 2,104. You're still stuck in the indicator. That's one thing. Secondly, stop spending money on this committee to investigate the Smolensk disaster. [[Applause]] This is an outrage! It's outrageous that this committee still exists, that a group of these freeloaders, yet with professorship titles, are taking money for it. And Mr Macierewicz, who is the chairman of this subcommittee, with the car and the driver... And that's also what you consider to be defense expenses. Right? This is the issue of this budget and the vision it proposes. It was supposed to be work, humility, that's what Prime Minister Szydło was talking about. Well, there's no Prime Minister Szydło, there's no job, there's no humility. There's the largest government in history, the historical government, 44 attorneys, 31 of whom are working, and 13 are waiting to be filled... There's the biggest law firm. There's political nepotism in companies, in companies as much as possible. All those exchanges that were, it's all so that other people can take jobs and get paid. And that was point two. And point three, which is the most important. Ladies and gentlemen, point three is what we've been talking about all along. There was talk of health, there was talk of education, there was less talk of other issues like... Mr. Senator, 10 minutes. Yes, sir. ...like disabled people, like court workers, like social workers, like building surveillance, like inspections, environmental inspection, State Labour Inspection, sanitary inspection. In all these areas, poverty just squeaks. And the thing is, the policy of the PiS government from the start was to increase individual transfers to the citizen's pocket and neglect collective transfers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u49	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. I'll sign up again for five minutes. You're welcome. Although that was a good summary. Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome. Five minutes, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u50	Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal, five minutes. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have an overwhelming impression, listening to this debate, that we can divide the latest history of Poland into two eras: the era before 2016 of the country flowing with milk and honey and the era after 2015, the darkness, destruction, the vision of catharsis, nothing happened, nothing changed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this opinion cannot be accepted, because if today... Keep your voice Gentlemen of the Senators, please don't disturb me. Katharsis... We know the intelligence of Senator Czarnobaj... Katharsis is a known concept. Please don't disturb me. There you go. You need to know what that means. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, you have a charge against us that we have chased, that we have changed, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the first example on the shore. As far as State Treasury companies are concerned, we have significantly reduced the remuneration of the board, shortened the periods of pronouncements, etc., etc., chased the ATMs that were employed by the Civic Platform, which could be counted not in tens, but in hundreds in individual companies of the State Treasury. We're done, we're done, we're done, we're done. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be discussed. Management salaries are not measured in millions of zlotys per year, but are much, much smaller. I recall the example of Orlen in Donald Tusk's reign. Anyway, a close friend of Donald Tusk's, who's two weeks away from working on Orlen's board... how many briefings did he take, who's gonna guess? Only $7 million in a few weeks. Who wouldn't? Well, ladies and gentlemen, who wouldn't? It was this land of milk and honey flowing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator, I didn't mean whether it was $50 million, $10 million, $20 million or $2 billion, I meant And that's what I've been paying attention to. It's about the fact. Whether or not you ruled as a Civic Platform, you have prepared individual budgets for individual years... Nobody in the Law and Justice has asked for amendments to be tabled which would limit part 29 of the budget. Never. It's all about the fact. You are creating a dangerous precedent by proposing an amendment to the part of the budget on which there is a national agreement that these funds should be increased. This is not a coincidence in the previous parliamentary term when the Government of Law and Justice decided to increase defence expenditure to 2.5% GDP by 2030, these solutions in the Sejm were supported unanimously, including in the Senate. I was present in the Senate, and also in the Senate it was supported unanimously. This is not unusual, because today national defence, security of Poland and Poles are priceless. The financial resources that we are spending today, of course, should be even greater, because we know today what risks are at stake and what problems are also in the whole area, in the European region. It's disturbing, and it's an undeniable fact. Today, reaching for part 29 of the budget is reprehensible. This must be stigmatized because this should not be the case. We may differ politically because our views are diametrically different, but in security matters we should speak with one voice. And even more painful is the matter, more painful is the fact that this solution was adopted by the committee, whose chairman is the former Minister of National Defence. And that's a scandal. This should not be the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u51	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome. No, it moved, it jumped... No, Mr. Marshal decided according to order. It's okay. The order was like this, right? No, it was changed. She was changed... But who changed? Mr. Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You guys signed up like that, right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u52	I will speak quickly to Senator Skurkiewicz's words. First of all, I am glad that when it comes to numbers, we agree, there is no violation of the law. This is a major matter, and I thank you for that. There is also no threat to the security of Poland, and the arguments which were used here were simply used unnecessarily. Well, the question is, if you can reach 50 million, that's another thing. I think the government should be involved in the third world's aid. Today Prime Minister Morawiecki says that Poland should be admitted to the 20 most developed countries of the world and participate in all these conventions of this 20th century. Well, if that's the case, you have to share it with the others, just like other countries do, not try to figure it out. Yeah, well, we're rich, and we really want to be there, but if we have to give something, we're poor, and we need them to give it to us. Well, you can't do that, either one or the other. Continuing, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am going back for a moment to the issue of this budget without deficit. I told you, he was kind of tied up in strings, but those things that we were talking about... Senator Swede has repeatedly asked with inquisitiveness what positions were pushed outside the budget, what it was. Well, that's what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. What is the 13th pension that is paid out of the Solidarity Fund? It doesn't make any sense. Well, what is it? After all, she should normally be paid from ZUS funds, which ZUS receives contributions, and if he does not have enough contributions And we know it's not enough. It receives subsidies, and in turn the grant is a budget expenditure. That's the way it's supposed to be, and it's not. So, about 10 billion zlotys have already been pushed out of the budget. By the way, I would like to remind you that in 2016, both Senator Bierecki and Prime Minister Morawiecki, then the Deputy Prime Minister, very, very much over previous governments, claiming that they used such practices. It was there, I mean. the budget lent money to the Social Insurance Fund. And what he said, for example. Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister? He said: we in this deficit did not use such an instrument, which our predecessors from the PO, PSL used for many years, namely a loan to the Social Insurance Fund instead of a subsidy to the FUS. A loan to the FUS makes it not visible in the deficit of the state budget. Mr. Bierecki spoke to Minister Rostowski and said: Mr. Rostowski has such a budgetary sorority, including the budget included tricks under the slogan of a loan to the Social Insurance Fund, etc. Well, that's what you're doing right now. Isn't that charity? What's this? The second thing is these tax bills. Well, I know, Minister Robaczyński, that it's only after they've spent, then it'll go down, etc., etc. Well, let's not be kids, it's a way to spend money outside of budget spending and outside of the spending rule. So that's at least 13 billion, because there's television for 2 billion and 1 billion for the university. I don't mind the universities, I'm in favour of giving more to the universities, just put it in... put it on the budget and show it that way. So that's the answer for Senator Swede. I hope that he is satisfied and that he will not vote for this budget, because it is clear that it is not reliable. I started this end... I was talking about what is the most important sin in the long run. The most important thing is that the state budget generally serves... After all, we collect these taxes for a reason. One goal is to help, support specific social groups, specific people, e.g. poor, and then we're talking about individual transfers. The second objective, the second point is to secure collective consumption. It is therefore about health care, which is for everyone, about education, which is for everyone, about social assistance, generally for the elderly, for the disabled. In short: here the state must show due consideration, i.e. must balance expenditure, both. And the PiS government has been running a slightly bodybuilder-like policy from the beginning, which has only practiced one part of the body, e.g. Left... or right I don't want it to be a left... right? Thank you, Senator... Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about historical... Time, time. I'm almost done. Speaking of historical deficits, it must be said that he has been achieved with tricks and, secondly, with absolute imbalances in terms of collective consumption, undermining this consumption. That's why, ladies and gentlemen... This is the last sentence, Mr. Marshal. That's why, and because you're all repeating it over and over again, that's what the historical budget is supposed to be. And I can still hear the historical budget, the historical budget, and I'm going to say this: yes, it's a historic moment, a historic moment, namely for the first time the pay of the beginner's teacher is lower than the cashier's pay at the supermarket. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u53	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I asked the senator, Marshal Borowski, to speak before him because I don't like to be the one who ends up and who is the last, but I happen to have to say a few words at the end... But, Senator, you were the one who started... I think I was starting to... Oh, it was the senator who started it. Okay, well, how about you... Because you haven't started, maybe you will. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I started, I started as a rapporteur, actually. It seems to me that the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Law and Justice are a bit obsessed with this new writing of history, and they accuse us of rewriting it. However, I think that your whole debate, campaign Because it started 4 years ago or more than 4 years ago, the 2015 election campaign is such an attempt to rewrite history. It was you, the State, who invented this theory of a state in ruins. And when you came to power in 2015, it suddenly turned out that everything was okay right away. Even during the work on the 2016 budget everything was fine, the country was developing beautifully. So this rhetoric, which you then adopted in 2015, as well as the whole idea of running the election campaign, because later Prime Minister Szydło repeated how the mantra was repeated, for the last 8 years, and so on, claiming that nothing was done, but that destruction was introduced in the country. You are hiccups today and it hurts in many situations. I want to say this: no one, no Civic Platform, nor, I think, Law and Justice. And you can see that too. It does not intend to limit the resources for national defence. We want these funds to be fully earmarked in accordance with the law, which means that 2.1% GDP was earmarked for this purpose. But that does not mean that we cannot and should not criticize the way that this money is spent. In this part of the budget And there's almost 50 billion zlotys there, and there's also a lot of irregularities. This is also shown by the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber. So it seems to me that you should step in with more power, look in there, look at some of the invitations to tender. Recently, some have been pulled away from this and even arrested are those who have made various combinations of tenders for these investments related to the defence of the country. It's worth a good look. Because this is an area that seems a little stray today, i.e. that this is a domain that only a few people decide about. That's very, very bad. And yet, on the pretext that we are all to be for defence, we are not allowed to have a normal debate in this area. However, I encourage you to do so with all my might. It's not about reducing money for these things, it's about spending it effectively. The second thing is development aid. I also talked about it in my report, answering questions. Of course, taking 50 million zlotys from MON once again emphasizes that with all my power It's not going to lower the indicator we're talking about here at all. It would be almost invisible in the entire budget. So that we should... We speak of ourselves as Christians, mostly Catholics. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So we should see another man, especially the poor one, especially in those countries that don't stand a chance of getting straightened out and being in a situation like us. What's in here? We're using all the rhetoric. There is talk of an army, freedom, that we must defend ourselves against our enemies. So as not to help those people who are in such a difficult, dramatic situation. And pictures of them can be seen in various places, in public and commercial media, in the Catholic press and in various commercial newspapers, how children live, how people live in these countries in central Africa. This is for us, so to speak, a challenge that has not been met and we should be helping there more, much more. And us, Poland, precisely because we have such a large budget, such amounts, should be able to afford it, to help more than we do today. And one more thing. They asked me to do it again and again... Mr. Marshal Borowski mentioned this case. The Macierewicz Commission is simply a disgrace. Either they've worked something out, or they've figured something out, or... And if she doesn't, she'll be solved. And show how much it costs. Because it costs too, it's in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. That's probably $3 million for this right now... This may be a small amount from the point of view of the entire budget, but in general this is a large amount that could be allocated to objectives that can be achieved in municipalities, NGOs... Mr. Senator, five minutes... It seems that money without any sense of responsibility and only to politically exploit... is constantly playing a game about this big, miserable 2010 tragedy. Thank you, Senator... Unfair, unworthy... It shouldn't be like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u55	Thank you, Senator. Senator Swede. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! At first, a word to Marshal Mark Borusewicz. I'm already in my first speech... Borowski. Borowski, I'm sorry, to see Marshal Borowski. I spoke about the budget's values in my first speech, and I also talked about why I would vote in favour of this budget. But there were a few issues after my speech... To begin with, after my first speech by several Senators, the Civic Platform raised the issue of oncology and additional money directed to this area. I would like to highlight some of the facts that I have already presented in this first speech. Health services and oncology are a priority for the Government of Law and Justice. This is seen in the proposed budget law and this is hard data. Health expenditure is record high and will be 108 billion at 75 billion in 2015, which is still at the end of the PO-PSL government. In turn, oncology alone will increase expenditure to over 11 billion at PLN 7.1 billion at the end of the PO-PSL government, i.e. by more than PLN 3 billion. In addition, as I also mentioned, it should be remembered that already in May 2019 President Andrzej Duda signed the Act on the National Oncology Strategy, for which we have 5 billion PLN. What is characteristic of us is the credibility of our word. Let me ask you from the Civic Platform: what is your credibility? What is the credibility of the Civic Platform in terms of more money for oncology? At the time when you were in charge, you showed this country, just in the years 2012 and 2014. I'm going to quote hard data here, which is exactly the vote from this period. 2 amendments to the budget were tabled in the Sejm on 27 January 2012. The first, by former Prime Minister Leszek Miler, concerned the creation of a special reserve for the task of covering the costs of administering an anti-melanoma vaccine to patients in the form of clinical trials at the Centre for Oncology in Poznań, the cost of 2 million PLN, with a reduction in expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. The second amendment, then by Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, concerned the allocation of PLN 7 million for the expansion and modernisation of the Oncology Centre in Białystok. Who was in favor? Law and Justice, SLD, Solidarna Polska, even the Palikot Movement. Who's against it? Prime Minister Donald Tusk's government and the parliamentary majority of PO-PSL. And another amendment, next year. On 12 December 2013, 35 million PLN was proposed to complete the extension and modernisation of the Lublin Land Oncology Centre. There was also an amendment by Mr Marek Suski, a proposal to use PLN 2 million for the construction of the Southern Mazovia Oncology Centre in Radom. Once again, the parliamentary majority of PO-PSL was against. In 2014, Marek Suski's amendment reappeared, allocating PLN 2 million for the construction of the Southern Mazovia Oncology Centre in Radom, and was again rejected by PO-PSL in the Sejm. The amendments in the Senate have already been mentioned by the senator, Minister Skurkiewicz. These amendments, concerning the oncology centre in Radom, were also rejected by most of the Platforms in these years. So, speaking to the Senators of the Platform, let me ask you: what is your credibility as an opposition, if you do not take responsibility for the budget, you propose billions, even though the Government of Law and Justice has already directed these billions to oncology, and when you ruled, even the few million oncology was a problem for you? Ladies and gentlemen, we have a historic budget, a budget, as was said. No deficit. The Minister of Finance also explained what extra-budget expenditure is, but this is not an emergency, this is the situation we have had before. We also have a budget in which we have proposed historical money for a big family-friendly program, a 500+ program. For the first time, it will be a programme from which funds will be allocated to all children, including the first child, throughout the financial year. We have allocated over PLN 95 billion to this program since the beginning of its operation. And these pro-social, family-friendly programmes for the elderly are very, very much in this budget. That is why, Mr. Marshal Borowski, I will vote in favour of this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And for the oncology amendment, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Boris-Damięcka hasn't spoken yet... I'm part of the replica... But about what? He'll explain right now. Have you been misunderstood? Correct? Ad vocem? Mr. Marshal, under Art. 48 (1) (a) One on the way to the replica. You know the rules very well, but... I'm trying. If necessary, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u58	Yeah, it's necessary. It's just one thing, Senator Swed. I'm sorry, I'm gonna pick on those numbers again. How much health did you say? 108 billion zlotys, right? Divide 108 billion by 2 trillion 373.3 billion. It's 4.5%. This is all the poverty of funding. Notabene is also cheating people and cheating e.g. residents who have been promised an increase in healthcare funding. So let's stick to this indicator. This indicator shows how this budget is constructed. Thank you. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u59	Senator Swede on his way to the replica. But... Last one. And I'm just standing there waiting. ...is the last replica for the replica. Well... But the senator is standing and waiting. Senator, I understand you're waiting, but it's a replica. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u60	Excuse me, Senator. I just want to stress that on the way to the replica I tried two speeches after my first speech to speak and Mr. Marshal Grodzki refused me, saying that in a discussion on the way of a replica you cannot speak. That's why... Okay. You can't do this before. It was, and now...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u61	Please, senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka. I've already helped you. Already? May I? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u62	Thank you very much. I have decided to take the floor because although everything has been said about this budget on the one hand and on the other, every now and then I receive texts from citizens who, ladies and gentlemen, are listening on the Internet to this debate, both yesterday at 3 p.m. and today from the very morning and to which everything has been said here. On their behalf, I would like to give you the following reflections that are written to me in these texts. Citizens do not feel that the state, the government decides or prepares or proposes a budget to be made for the citizens of this country. Not all citizens are taken into account. They do not require the government of the Republic to hold citizens, but at least to be friendly to them. They believe that if we currently have such a situation in the country, that we have a crash, drama, tragedy, death in oncology and other areas, then we do not admit or give up on the budget of television funds called public, but actually government, because without it people can live peacefully and manage to live in our country. In such a situation, he does not admit funds for the subcommittee of Mr Macierewicz and a number of other such things, because without it people can live. But people want to live, they don't want to die of cancer, and they want you to help them heal, so they can live in this country as decently as possible. This is an appeal. maybe not a huge number of people who decide to send a text to one or another Senator or Member and who signal that they want you to be kind and that the budget should be for the citizen so that the citizen can feel that you are aware of the needs of the citizens of this country. And I'm handing this voice over to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u63	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I changed my mind... You're going to... You're welcome, Senator. He's on his way to the podium. There you go, second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to divide this five-minute speech into two parts. One point is what Senator Boris-Damięcka was talking about. I also got these texts about a very important area, which is... I don't want to move it anymore, but since the watchers are writing, I'd like to refer to it, too. As you as the people of PiS say that modesty in wages is your domain, I can quote here articles showing how many prominent people have earned in 14 stock companies: 90 million, 100 million Look, the fact that there were mistakes... I believe that one of the biggest mistakes of the Civic Platform was also about salaries in the Treasury companies. You can criticize it. And it's a good thing you're criticizing, just don't tell me you're different because you're worse. A whole bunch of PiS activists took a job in companies, companies, you reward each other. Well, what you're doing is a thousand times, a million times worse than what happened in the Platform. It was, of course, reprehensible, and you're right to criticize us, just don't put yourself in the role of crystal people. Well, open your first better browser today, type in PiS's people's salaries and read it there. Well, can't you read? If you can read it, you can read it. On the issue of defence, I am now speaking to Senator Skurkiewicz, but as usual he has given his speech and is leaving. I'm the one who wants to talk about two things. As for the issue of money for the army, security, weapons, there was a figure of 50 million here. It was said that this would completely undermine the defence of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal Borowski and others showed how to disrupt, but I would like to say that in the around budget bill there is also a position that assigns... I do not remember the amount involved, but these are funds for the equipment of the State Security Service, i.e. related security elements. And it also moves from weaponry, from the security of the Polish army. And finally, what Senator Skurkiewicz said, who used such an expression, that there was a catharsis. I want to clarify this because I hope that the senator used the word "katharsis" in a good sense. In short, catharsis is a release from suffering. Mr. Skurkiewicz is right, this release from suffering will take place on 24 May this year at the latest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing... I'll have your attention, please. Please inform me if I miss anyone. So Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Aleksander Potej, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Senator Ryszard Świlski, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Michał Kamiński, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, Senator Alicja Chybicka, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Wojciech Kończyk, Senator Paweł Arndt, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Kazimierz Klein, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Danuta Jazłowacka, Senator Beniamin Goda, Senator Beniamina, Senator B. ... Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Jacek Bury, Senator Halina Poor and Senator Krzysztof Brejza. I've put it together. The discussion is closed. Mr. Senator... Senator Czarnobaj. Oh, good. But... We'll put it in. Good. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There wasn't a... Good. The point is to make any amendments. I didn't read it. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Please, Minister. First Deputy Minister Tomasz Robaczyński and then Deputy Minister Paweł Szrot. If anyone else in the minister's office wants to speak, I'm asking you to come forward. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have spoken before, explaining what is in this budget, how it was constructed, but after this discussion a few more issues need to be clarified. It's been very short. All this time, there was a motive for balancing the budget and the allegations about sustainability. I'm gonna talk about it again. What's this really about? A large, essential part of public finances is sustainable. This sustainability of the budget, i.e. covering revenue expenditure, concerns the totality of public finances, the part of the budget and the part outside of the budget. In total, this gives us a deficit of 1.2% in the public finance sector. GDP, which is the second lowest since the beginning of the calculation of this deficit. If the state budget were unsustainable, it would necessarily be 1.2%. X should be added, which would be precisely due to the difference between expenditure and revenue in the state budget. The point is that this sustainability, which is this zero deficit, is all of it. The deficit in the public finance sector is low and is still below, well below the reference value that is required of us by the European Commission, i.e. less than 3% GDP. Is that okay? I've already answered that question. Since this is what consists of a low deficit, it is good from the point of view of public finances and the sustainability of public finances. As a result, we have confidence in the markets, and thus we have lower debt management costs. This allows more money to be spent on other expenses rather than on debt management alone. This parameter, which was often invoked, now no longer appears in the discussion, in which there are allegations about the budget. It should be stressed that debt for GDP is constantly falling and that this is a trend that has been visible for some time. All this time, this debt level is falling. And these are the parameters that are relevant. They state that this sustainability of the budget, regardless of how we approach it, is good and contributes to the fact that more resources can be allocated to the tasks of the State. Regardless of what the party thinks about the direction of these expenditures, more resources can be allocated to these tasks rather than to the debt management itself, thanks to this budget structure. And that's what I'd like to stress. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u67	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to add that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing, in addition to the already mentioned senators, by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Artur Dunin. And now, Minister Paweł Szrot will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be very brief, too. Here Minister Robaczyński has actually said everything you could say about the substantive arguments. But two speeches in the debate have particularly drawn my attention. The first was the performance of the Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka, a very dramatic, dignified Hollywood post-apocalyptic film, indicating some revolutionary solutions to military doctrine. Your marshal pointed out that the Polish army should only be armed with defensive equipment. There have already been such solutions before World War II. Maginot's line... Everyone knows how it ended. And your marshal, in the conclusion of her speech, addressed the question to the government side, not so much the question as to say, as if we did not know what it was like to work for less than PLN 1 thousand. Mrs. Marshal, you're not here, but I'd like to declare on my own behalf that I know exactly what it's like to work for less than $1,000. I also know exactly what it's like to be unemployed, a high school graduate long looking for a job. All this has happened, Mrs Marshal, under the rule of the left, under the rule of the Democratic Left Alliance, which your Marshal will represent in this House. The second speech that brought me to my attention was the speech by Senator Arthur Dunin, who went to one insult and one lie in this speech. The insult is, of course, how well everyone who has heard it remembers, an indication that ministers present in the Chamber represent a vile government. And there's no need for comment here. And as far as lying is concerned, Senator Dunin was willing to say that the politicians of Law and Justice are afraid to look people in the eye and meet them only at closed meetings, and I quote, by the admission card. That's not true. That's not true, and we all know it. All those who observe public life know that. At the meetings of President Andrzej Duda, of course, there are crowds of his supporters who support his candidacy, but also his opponents, both those who behave in a manner that does not defy the dignity of the head of the Polish state, as well as those who are being carried out, from Warsaw, raising such shouts as those we all heard in Puck. They're attending these meetings. Nobody eliminates them, there are no admission cards in open meetings. Mr. Senator Dunin, I expect you to apologize for insulting me and correct the lie. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. And Minister Sławomir Gadomski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u70	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I can't promise it's gonna be fast, because, I think, 80%. The discussion that has been going on since yesterday has been dominated by health care, and in fact its core, or oncology. So that I am sorry, I will try to take advantage of this time, which I have after many hours of discussion, and to objectivize the facts, to discuss in fact some actions that objectively and not politically represent what the current government is doing in the field of oncology, because the discussion about PLN 2 billion oncology has a political subtext. This is not a discussion about PLN 2 billion for health, this is not a discussion about PLN 2 billion for medical staff, for medical rescue, for salaries in health care. No, it's a discussion about oncology, because it's an area that grabs the heart. I understand that as a politically sensitive area it is great to play it and to build a certain message on these emotions. A message built in this way not only in my opinion I'm an expert, I'm not a politician. It does not serve Polish oncology. It's not just my grade. Today I read a fresh interview in the Journal of the Legal Gazette with Prof. Rutkowski, an authority from the oncology centre in my field, one of the best specialists not only in Poland, but also in this part of Europe in the treatment of bone cancers, melanomas, sarcoma. What did the professor say? It's really worth quoting. The journalist asks the question: "Policy pushes around 2 billion zlotys, which the government plans to give on TV, and the opposition wants them to go to oncology, help sick people?." This fight doesn't help oncology. In this regard, there should be full consensus. All this confusion surprises me, because it seems like everyone agrees on the direction of change. However, when action was finally taken to prepare the NSO National Oncology Strategy, there was an uproar. And this is - I think it's okay. The essence of what the medical community says today. Today, oncologists are not in favour of making any political confusion. They want and advocate to continue the actions that we have started, those actions that we have started... ...with oncologists. ...together with experts. I would like to stress that what the Ministry of Health has been doing for 1.5 years, 2 years in the field of oncology At that time, after the exposé of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, we stepped up our efforts This is not an activity carried out by officials of the Ministry of Health. These are actions coordinated by the Ministry of Health, but implemented, developed with ideas and hands of these very experts, the most recognized authorities in the country Professors, national consultants, voivodship consultants, people who have been in this for many years. I will not quote the quotations on detailed solutions and on how much support we are doing today. What kind of action is that? Let's start with the foundations. The National Oncology Strategy 2020-202030. Many times from this lecturer, they asked what a novel is, claiming that we have a National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases. Those are not my words, only the words of experts: this strategy, this cancel plan in Poland was very lacking. Because the National Cancer Programme was only an intervention programme for two areas, partly prevention and investment in oncology. He did not touch such fundamental areas for oncology and health protection as investments in staff, such as changing the system in oncology, such as coordination of treatment, as departure from fragmentation of the diagnostic and therapeutic process, from dispersion. He did not talk at all about innovation and science in oncology, and this is probably the most grateful field of medicine today to develop it. This is what the National Oncology Strategy brings. The discussion concerned the fact that in the state budget there is still PLN 250 million for this programme, because in fact the National Oncology Strategy was developed after the draft budget law. But let's look at the years ahead. The guarantee is that spending on the programme will increase: 450 million in the next 3 years, 0.5 billion PLN in the next one. And these are just direct costs. I encourage you to read and read thoroughly the National Oncology Strategy. There are some activities that will be indirectly financed by the National Health Fund, e.g. in the field of prevention, new prevention programmes that we are implementing and which we want to implement, among others. by the Agency for Medical Research, which today estimates that it will have a budget of PLN 100.150 million for innovation only in oncology, and for some years it will actually give further billions of PLN. The second branch of this foundation is the National Oncology Network, which Senator Chybicka spoke about. Patients in Poland need this to feel the same cared for in each centre. She said that patients needed a guarantee that surgery in the field of oncology would be performed properly both in a smaller facility and in this large centre of oncology. And great, in this respect with Senator Chybick, I agree. This is what we need, and this is what we have been doing for over a year and a half, this is what the piloting of the National Oncology Network has to do with the centres of excellence, the centres of comprehensive care for the patients mentioned by Senator Czudowska, the breast cancel units, another lung cancel units. The same applies to colon cancer, haematology, gynaecological or urological cancers. These are changes that, as Senator Czudowska said, we have been looking forward to over a dozen years. Senator, for many years, patient organizations... I was pleased to announce the uprising of the breast cancel units with the president of the pacific organizations, the Polish Coalition of Oncological Patients and at the same time the Federation of Amazons, who said this at the time: since 2006. I called on the next governments, the next health ministers to finally implement these comprehensive benefits. Well, we did. In 2019 we have implemented them, and this year we are expanding them. Of course, certain authorities, including Professor Jassem, seem to be the favorite advisor of the opposition, criticizing these projects, saying that only 10 centres entered this project, that it is not enough on the scale of Poland. Ten came in because 10 met those criteria. They may be pretty screwed up today, but I think we're looking forward to improving this quality thanks to these high-quality entry criteria. Let's give these centers a chance, maybe in another six months, next year more units will enter this project. In the field of oncology there have also been repeated allegations, doubts In fact, in a sense, these patients were also scared. As regards how small the number of oncology drugs we have in Poland today. I'm the one who's gonna say, for example, to illustrate what we're doing. I'm talking about it with full conviction, that's what we're doing. In 2019 we increased the number of refunded active substances in oncology by 20% in one year. These are medications that today save lives for patients with colorectal cancer. This is the third and fourth line of treatment, many years postulated by patients breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer or, in the field of hematooncology, lymphoblastic leukaemia, chronic myeloid leukaemia. What is worth emphasising are innovative therapies. Most of the speakers said that we don't finance innovative therapies. These are innovative therapies, registered therapies, studied in Europe, most often in the last 2 years, very expensive therapies, which is worth highlighting. I think I could talk for a long time about the next changes, about the change in tariffs, about the tariffization processes in oncology, which no government had previously implemented, about the new prevention programs. In the field of lung cancer, we piloted a low-dose tomography program, just like in the case of skin cancers, liver cancers. These are new, in a sense pilot projects that we really want to check. We want to see if they are effective and implement them in the following years. There's been a lot of talk about investments. Well, I don't recall such investments in oncology. These are issues related not only to the revitalization of the National Institute of Oncology, an investment worth almost PLN 1 billion. Many of the investments that today are implemented by the Ministry of Health through national or EU funds are investments in oncology. Let's take medical universities, which in the multi-annual programs... Well, for example. Pomeranian Medical University or This has been recently adopted by the Council of Ministers The University of Medicine in Poznań are projects in which oncology in those regions has also been supported in an important way. There has been a significant increase in contracting in the case of EU projects under the Operational Programme Infrastructure and the environment. Only in the last 2, 3 years have 55 new contracts worth more than 700 million PLN, contracts dedicated only to oncology, only to innocent children. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this catalogue of actions... Not only in my opinion, not only in the assessment of the Ministry of Health, this is a comprehensive approach. A lot of experts think so. I really encourage you to discuss with national consultants. They often attend meetings of senate teams, sejm teams and they confirm unambiguously: so much in oncology never happened. I say it with full responsibility and I say it by repeating the words of these experts: never! And I hope that everyone in this room will keep their fingers crossed so that these actions continue and that we continue to succeed. Indeed, measures in oncology are absolutely necessary. No one's denying that. Minister Cieszyński's words from the meeting of the Senate Committee on Health have been distorted, supposedly he said that we do not need these 2 billion PLN. We need them very much, only that we, under our responsibility, discuss opportunities with the Minister of Finance, the President of the National Health Fund, for example. And these discussions are fruitful. Return to memory by 2017, 2018, 2019. These are the only years when the state budget added a special grant to the National Health Fund in the formula. It was PLN 1 billion in 2017, PLN 1.8 billion in 2018, PLN 2.7 billion in 2019. These are the measures that, through consensus, the substantive discussion, we have been able to allocate from the state budget to health. There is no way to disagree with the fact that health needs are generally large and will probably be even greater. And I agree that health is an area like pendolino. Innovation in this area is, of course, speeding up quickly and the resources are needed. But I think we need to take it with our heads. That's why we have a 6% bill. Whether these percentages of GDP are 2 years old or 1 year ago. I cannot agree with what he said, I think, Senator Borowski, i.e. That we're cheating residents. No, we're not cheating. The way of counting was presented to the residents, and to the High House, and to the Sejm, and to the Senate. Neither the Sejm nor the Senate have reported any amendments to this regard on the method of counting. It is worth noting that today's slogans in the style of "Government cheats residents" are far from true. What else is worth saying? The 6% bill is actually the way to make these expenditures gradually increase. When we talk about the fact that the state budget does not participate, because we have a good economic situation and a health contribution is enough today to finance these needs... Yeah, that's right. But if this situation is not optimistic from the next year, the government will have to add at least PLN 5 billion to the health expenditure. Yeah, five billion, in the next year about 7, 8, 9... that's what we estimate today, and that's in case this optimistic economic situation continues. And if this situation changes, then the resources spent on health will probably have to be bigger. It will be the resources allocated in a responsible way, the resources allocated through a substantive discussion with the finance minister about how much we can actually afford. I personally, as Minister of Health, would very much like to have these health measures as much as possible, because in fact my work comfort would then be much greater. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u71	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Kopeć You're welcome. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the important issue raised during this debate was, apart from the issue of health care, the issue of education, of course, rightly, because education is important. I am very pleased that in some of the senators' speeches there have been statements that education is an investment Although in one speech the investments undertaken by local authorities were tried to interfere with the expenditure on education, which, of course, must be accepted with regret. It is also worth looking at the slogans that have appeared here, concerning the phrase about system deformity repeated by the opposition and the costs involved. In fact, the deformity took place in 2009 and 2012 when biology, history, geography, chemistry were thrown out of high school. That's when the deformity occurred. And it seems to me that the essence of this is that according to the software base at the end of the third grade, a student would be able to use a mouse and keyboard. This reflects the condition in which we became educated in 2015. PISA studies were also mentioned. Of course, we are happy with these results in 2018, just remember that we are happy because there has been an increase after a significant drop in 2015. And even when you look at the statements of the former vice-ministers of the previous government, it's... According to them, the reason for this drop was because the test was done on the computer. What I think is a quintessence, a punch line showing what education looked like in 2015. The students could not solve their tasks on the computer, although on paper they solved them. Of course, when you look at these expenditures, you look at Eurostat data from 2017, you can see that the total expenditure on education in Poland was 4.9%. GDP with EU average 4.6%. If we took government and self-government expenses Of course we're all happy that these expenses are That would be 11.9%. with an EU average of 10.2%. There was also talk of breaking the constitution. But according to the article. 167 of the Constitution, the income of the local government is subsidies, own income and grants, such as pre-school grants. Moreover, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2006 when the city of Łódź tried to challenge the State Treasury on whether the subsidy is sufficient for expenditure, clearly shows that it is not so that the subsidy must cover educational expenditure. Hence, the local government has revenue from taxes, which these educational expenditures are also intended to cover, i.e. subsidies are support for the local government. And of course, if we looked at it historically, because there were also many references to the history of subsidies and references to GDP... But it is worth looking at how the subsidy is calculated. First of all, the money goes after the student. In fact, in 2003 there were 7 million 83 thousand students. Today there are 4 million 800,000 students. So the drop in student numbers is 2 million 200,000. And if we looked at it on the other hand, we would see that education subsidies are growing regardless of that. So in 2003, it was 24 billion, and now it's 50 billion. And when you look at it historically, you can see that the subsidy actually grew. The time to stop the increase in subsidies is 2012. We were talking about history. The only moment in the history of the Third Republic of Poland, when the subsidy fell, was 2014. This is the only time. And it is also worth remembering when we refer to history. So then this collapse just happened. It is difficult to say that between 2015 and 2020, when subsidies increased by 10 billion... When it is now 50 billion, it is highly unfair to say that the effort by the state is not sufficient. It is huge, and this important action is of course the support of the school, the student so that the Polish school is modern. Of course, we do not say that we have a situation in which the subsidy must cover all expenses. But it's not exactly what the data that was given here would indicate. I mean. When you look at these subsidised expenditures, you can see that on average this indicator is 126 rather than 150, because this is the average for all types of local government. Of course, we could refer to other types of self-government, i.e. counties. There it is 111, to the Grodzkie powiats, 134, voivodships, 129. So it's not what we've been trying to do here. Of course, it's like Senator Jackowski said. This situation of local governments varies and such support is built in different ways through weight. So it is support for schools in small municipalities, up to 5 thousand, it is historically earlier. There is a later introduced change for so-called. small schools, i.e. where we have a single primary school, that is, with 96 pupils, or a recent change for schools, where the number of students in branches is up to 18, and at the same time for self-governments, which are economically weaker. But, of course, this discussion about funding is needed. It is also difficult to talk about educational expenditure, without taking into account the evolution of local government income, and the data that we have for 2018, of course indicate a marked increase in local government and PIT income, and with CIT, and self-government income. If we also looked at expenses and compared them to expenditures in 2016, 2017 and 2018, we would notice clearly... If we compared current expenditure to educational expenditure, it would turn out that in 2016 it was 25.7% , the following year 23.8% , in the following year 22.4%. So if we were really comparing spending to spending, we'd think their share was just slightly decreasing. It would be similar if we compared it to income. We'd also get an indicator that would be negative. So this is an important thing. It is worth discussing, speaking about the expenditure of local governments, about this situation, which is so dramatic in the opinion of the opposition. But it is also worth referring to this amendment, which speaks of an increase of PLN 4 billion 605 million, because the method of calculation... The discussion here, of course, concerned the issue of taxes and these measures, but, to put it mildly, the method of calculation raises serious doubts. It is simply methodologically quite questionable, because it refers to the increase that teachers received in 2018, the increase from 1 April. It is then as if these issues are further converted into subsequent years, simply not taking into account the actual number of teachers in subsequent years. In other words, even if it were theoretically assumed that this calculation for 2018 contained some error, it would have been corrected for the next actual student data in subsequent years. This is simply incorrect and constitutes an important part of this calculation. Like I said, even hypothetically assuming... The second important thing is the number of teaching posts. Let us remember that we move in a huge number of jobs, 600 thousand jobs, with some jobs being subsidised, some not. So, kindergarten jobs, which is where we have kids. 3-, 4- and 5-year-olds, teachers employed under the Teacher's Charter are not subsidised. If we take that into account... One must remember that one teaching job is about PLN 80,000 a year. So the mistake of several thousand jobs results in a significant change in hundreds of millions. So, where the authors of this calculation use, I understand, a certain respect, it is burdened with a giant mistake, probably resulting in hundreds of millions of zlotys. So it's hard to take into account. Come on, this calculation probably doesn't include the structure of career promotion and change either. Of course, this structure might seem... Even if the structure between trainee teachers changes, contract teachers, diplomat, appointed, these transfers may seem small, but they also have a significant financial impact. And we can also assume that in this calculation it's very difficult to really put it. I'm guessing that's not included at all. This, too, is what I would like to draw the attention of the senators to precisely the points concerning this amendment, this calculation and certain that, so to speak, the methodological errors that have been adopted here. So, given the issue of subsidies, the question of what the local government gets as a result of taxes... Of course, Senator Jackowski was talking about this discussion and this discussion is going on. The Minister of National Education also conducts such talks on a trialogue, i.e. the government, trade unions and representatives of local corporations. This discussion also took place within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. It is certainly worth paying attention to, and it is also worth paying attention to the Polish school. So that I thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and once again to point out that issues relating to the financing of education will certainly still bring about a discussion here, but this discussion must be conducted in a factual, substantive manner, based on facts and figures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. And now please take the floor of Minister Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times here, during these 2 days, the subject of water was referred to with such a major slogan that there are no means for retention, for combating drought, for stopping water, for responding to the quantity and quality of water. I feel like I need to address this. Of course, there is no such one item in the budget entitled Water, we will not find such a item in the budget. You should look for it in several different places. I'll zoom in on where you can find this. This is mainly due to the complexity of water policy, water management, from micro-retention activities, through small retention, to large retention activities and large investments in water management. Of course, drought is not a new phenomenon, as you know. About every 4 and 6 years, drought occurs in Poland. What is happening now, the intensity of drought and its duration, is indeed an extraordinary phenomenon and we respond to it. I'll start with microretency. In the Rural Development Programme, this is the area under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture As you know, a wide-ranging hydration programme is in place, both the modernisation of existing hydration systems and the operation of new irrigation systems: small tanks, which are exclusively for applications and water law permits, which accelerates the procedure, wells and normal, classic irrigation systems. For farmers up to 50% funding, for young farmers Up to 60%, up to 100,000 for each farmer. So much for this micro level. With regard to small retention and high retention, this is the "Stop of Drying' programme, which also includes investments from the water scarcity programme. They are all integrated since the Water Directive was introduced. I would like to remind you that we implemented this directive in 2017, when Poland already threatened a very large penalty for the infringement. This directive has been ignored for years, and this is one of the largest directives in the structure of the European Union. In Polish Waters this year 2 billion 100 thousand are capital expenditure, mostly investment, for small, medium and large investments with different levels of progress. Part of it is planned investments, part of it Already implemented, a total of 198 investments. These include regeneration, reform and modernisation of jazz, mucus, trough retention, construction of tanks, planning of new tanks and operation at different levels of water management as part of an integrated approach. There are 94 major investments in the water scarcity programme itself. This is the program until 2027. The total amount is 10 billion. There is also a programme of smaller investments. We have collected them as part of a field consultation over the last few years both under the "Stop of Drying" programme and under the "Retention Development Programme." I'm sending it back to all these programs, and you can check it out, look for it, read it. We will also be happy to provide detailed information in writing if necessary. As regards water quality, because such arguments also fell, I remind you that one of the main areas is the implementation of the Nitrates Directive in the previous year. I point out that this is also an infringement, from 2014, and Poland threatened a record penalty for this infringement. We've handled this program. There was a successful dialogue with farmers in such a way that they accepted the programme. It is implemented through the Rural Development Programme and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Although the issue of air is not in my competence, but because it has been mentioned several times here and there is no representative of the Ministry of Climate, I feel obliged to say a few sentences on this subject. Here is a similar situation as with the Water, Nitrates and all these infringements. It is said that the previous coalition had such a great dialogue with the European Commission, and in such a green way it had a water resource policy, and in water management we see dry tanks alone, and in the air quality area... Let me remind you that this is an infringement in Poland from 2018 this is an infringement for the years 2007 to 2015. The European Commission has identified 35 out of 46 hotspots. The European Commission has defined this infringement in this way: the overrun must be considered permanent. I remind you, it's the years 2007 and 2015. The pace of implementation of the air and water protection measures we now have is actually due to the inactivity that was widespread in those years. So talking about the absence of a green policy in our actions versus the green policy of previous years is indeed a great hypocrisy. As far as I'm concerned, because there's been a few sentences about it... It is difficult for me to refer to this, because in the last month we receive conflicting messages on the assessment of this investment by the opposition. Today we have heard a request to increase the funds for this investment. In turn in the Sejm there was a whole large list of budgetary proposals for the transfer of funds from investment to other activities. On the one hand, we hear that the investment is being carried out too quickly and we should have a broader dialogue with the European Commission. On the other hand, we hear that it should not be implemented at all or that it is being carried out too slowly. As there are so many different messages and they are difficult to find, I am not able to make a precise reference to all these allegations. The only thing I can declare is that the investment is carried out in accordance with Polish and EU law, according to assumptions and timetable, and the budget for this investment is 100% secured. Just a little while longer about... because there was an argument by Żuławy and a lack of resources for the flood prevention program. This year, 3 million are planned for spurs, 500 thousand for the reconstruction of the Vistula estuary, and 38 million for the assault gate on the Tuga River, and 38 million for the Miguel of the Dead Vistula. The programme shall be implemented with a view to 2030. By 2023, we've secured 120 million. I am unable to refer to the other proposals for amendment to small water investments, because I do not know their details. That's for example. River Liwa, which is 100 km old; I do not know what the 15 million proposed transfer is about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Would anyone else from the government like to speak? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 68 and the report of the Commission In print No 69 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Senate Infrastructure Commission a report on the Law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No 69. The Commission was investigating this law yesterday, for which the legislative process took place in the Sejm in January. No amendment was made yesterday. Dear State, purpose and subject of the Act are the implementation in the national legal order of Directive No 2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending the 2012 Directive, Directive No 34 as regards the opening up of the market for domestic rail passenger services and the management of railway infrastructure. The deadline for implementing this Directive expired in 2018. At the same time, the Act complements the provisions on the implementation of the 2012 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, Directive No 34 on the creation of a single European national area. In principle, it was transposed into the Polish legal order under the Law of 16 November 2016 amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. In particular, this applies to, among others. exemption from the obligation to obtain a railway operator's licence. It should be noted that this catalogue of necessary amendments reflects the objections raised by the European Commission in its letter of 26 July 2019 concerning the transposition of the 2012 Directive. The Act on Rail Transport amends the Act of 28 March 2003. Their essence is to strengthen the guarantee of independence, impartiality and transparency of the railway infrastructure manager. The novel refers, among other things, to the novel. to the following issues: the possibility of commissioning the tasks of the infrastructure manager to other entities; how to determine compensation for train delays; the conclusion of framework agreements between the applicant and the infrastructure manager; the rules for the provision of service facilities; the elements of the business plan developed by the infrastructure manager; the definition of a vertically integrated undertaking; the transparency of settlement between infrastructure managers and railway operators. The proposed solutions aim to open up the market for national rail passenger transport services to railway operators from other Member States of the European Union, which will increase competitiveness in the rail passenger transport market in the European Union as a result of equal treatment as regards the right of access for all interested parties irrespective of the Member State of origin. The solutions introduced eliminate existing restrictions in this area. This is very important for us, for our market, and above all for passengers. As we know, the market has opened up in Germany and other countries with our southern neighbours. The passenger gained most of all from this. In the Czech Republic or Germany it was the passengers who gained it because there are more journeys, more people use transport and there are cheaper tickets. This is very important and that's why we've been working on this bill. No amendments were made to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Yes, that's the question Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Were there representatives of passenger companies operating on the Polish market at the committee meeting? I'm thinking above all about Intercity here. Did they make an opinion on this bill? And my second question. Was the committee meeting considering what rail routes these operators or representatives of the European market would be interested in? What railroad routes would they like to cross? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u80	There were representatives of various companies, including Intercity. The opinion was positive. Of course you need to know that this entry will be gradual, because you also have to mentally change, but everything depends on the collective transport bill, because here you have to start, it is as if the beginning of the whole. But all the opinions at the committee meeting were positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u81	Thank you... Do you have another question, senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u82	Well, in that case, 'Cause the senator was so flattering that it's good for the passengers, and no doubt it could be that way in the future. When's that gonna happen? Here I am thinking primarily of the most attractive connections, i.e. Warsaw Kraków, Warsaw. Wrocław, Warsaw Poznań, or further, towards Berlin, and Warsaw the coast, i.e. Gdynia... Warsaw Rzeszów. Warsaw Katowice. ...Warsaw Rzeszów and Warsaw... of course, the whole Silesian agglomeration, Warsaw Gliwice, because these are the most attractive, most besieged routes, first of all the routes on which pendolino stores ride, because they are considered to be the most attractive or having the most transport, or the most prestigious routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u84	Here really must be the total release of these routes, because, as we know, we pay a lot of money to Pendolino Intercity, about 600 million PLN, i.e. this is a lot, but other countries have also been through this and we need to come to this gradually. Czechs already enter Krakow, they enter Warsaw, but in a limited way. If there is such a really solid competition, it will make transports and tickets cheaper, but it must... You really have to take it mentally, pick out... After all, the Germans, Deutsche Bahn, had to lose 30% as well. The main routes, but it turns out that Deutsche Bahn is doing even more miles. But 30% of their key routes allowed competition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u85	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Andrzej Bittel, and Vice-President of the Railway Transport Office, Mr Kamil Wilde. Do any of you gentlemen want to speak? Thank you very much. If there are questions, then... Oh, thank you. If you're asking questions... Well, you're reporting to the senator with one question or no question, maybe you've even got a few. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u86	I thought the Minister would comment on this bill, but I understand we can go straight to the question phase. Minister, what carriers in the assessment of the Ministry are potentially interested in entering the Polish market? Do you know anything about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u87	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! That's a very good question. It can be said that for today there is one carrier who has requested such an option under the open access procedure. It is a Czech carrier who, after meeting the requirements and conditions, has obtained the decision of the railway regulator, the Railway Transport Authority, and has the decision to do so. This, when it starts transporting passengers, is another matter if we are talking about interregional traffic and even longer, that is, international traffic. If we are talking about regional transports, in this sense, in the framework of the tender procedures of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, if I am not mistaken, drives Arriva. There is also a cross-border link between Wrocław and the Czech Republic implemented by Leo Express. That's all. What will be the interest in entering the Polish market? Of course, our market is a growing market, the number of passenger services is increasing. The last 4 years have been very good and this provides an excellent basis for the strength of the Polish market to build. This is one side of the coin. And the other side of the coin is that Polish railway companies, carriers, but also infrastructure managers are constantly adapting to market rules and European law It is implemented, for example, by this law, and there will be further laws on the implementation of the fourth railway package, which must also focus on modernity, competitiveness and solutions that are passenger-friendly. And we're doing it. It is worth to say that in railway infrastructure we invest 76 billion PLN, PKP Intercity in the framework of the investment rolling stock strategy invests 7 billion PLN, is a maintenance program for maintaining railway infrastructure, are modernised railway stations. All this makes our market interesting and more interesting. There is also a policy of strengthening Polish companies that operate in this market. The same is done by organizers of collective transport at regional level, because there are several regional railways owned by marshals. They also invest in the regional railroad, try to develop it and will also have to face the fourth railway package.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u89	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u90	And here's the question: when, from which point in time in the evaluation of the resort, can there be a process of dancing tickets? Will the companies you mentioned, the Intercity type, with a view to entering the Polish market, in your opinion start some new pricing policy or on the contrary? I'm asking because I'm getting information... People think that tickets are expensive, unless someone buys them early enough in the promotion. I'm talking about Intercity here and especially about this top product, which is pendolino courses, but many connections... At the moment, it is practically only pendolino that is possible when it comes to convenient travel times. So the question is, is there going to be a dance of tickets? The second issue, which is unfortunately linked to the modernisation of railway routes, is the issue of train delays. Now, in the light of this law, will there be increased comfort or a certain standard in terms of the passenger's ability to receive any compensation for lateness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u91	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u92	Of course, the process of building a commercial offer by any company, including Intercity, must be based on market realities. I would like to point out that this is the way we call the Intercity Premium pass. It's a commercial journey, it's supposed to make a profit, because you have to pay back the huge amount that has been spent on these trains. So that by nature it will be expensive. In the sense that... Of course, if PKP Intercity sees that other carriers enter the market with a similar offer but cheaper offer, and the trains of this relationship will start losing customers, then it will obviously be necessary to analyse what to do with this fact. However, I note another issue: trains that are launched by PKP Intercity were not affected by the increase of railway tickets, and basically all regional railways, including the leader, i.e. Mazowiecki Railways, have raised ticket prices. That's why it's worth looking at, given the horizon. Are the tickets expensive, too expensive? I'm sure everyone would be more pleased if they paid less. Definitely. However, somewhere this market boundary, including in terms of operation of the carrier, must be set. Especially because, as Senator Lamczyk mentioned the Polish state to public service trains, i.e. those subsidised, started to make the transport offer consistent and good, it pays a lot of money. And that's clear. As regards the second issue, the issue of delays, the basic point is that our level of punctuality is at European level, we need not be ashamed of it. He is dependent on many factors, and modernization works are one of them. And they're de facto... I mean. unexpected events in the context of modernization work are one of them, maybe I will say so. Because a well-prepared timetable should already include e.g. extended travel time on a given relationship in connection with modernization work. It is therefore worth looking at other reasons related to train delays. But they are certainly not regulated by this submission, by law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Paweł Arndt, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said we're spending billions of dollars on rail infrastructure. I'd like to ask you about the reasonableness of the expenses, at least some of the expenses. Let me give you an example. I often travel Intercity on the Poznań route .Warsaw. A few years ago, before the route was upgraded, the trip lasted 2.5 hours. Today it lasts at best 3 hours 15 minutes. The route is supposed to be after the renovation, because there were detours during the renovation. Now these detours are gone, so you can presume that the renovations have been completed. And the journey takes at least 45 minutes longer on a 300-kilometer route. In view of these reasonable expenses, what does it look like? Perhaps there is a real need for an open market not only for journeys, but also for all these modernization works.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u95	Well, the market for modernization works is of course open, because every order in investment procedures is executed under public tender, open, usually even European, with huge announcements. This is the first issue, the open market. What else is infrastructure management that has its own specific characteristics. Indeed, this matter of guaranteeing the independence of the railway infrastructure manager is an element described in this Act, these additional guarantees. Of course, we can discuss for a long time whether this modernization investment of the route to Poznań has already been completed. 'Cause I'd have some doubts about whether this is the end of the job. But I certainly would not want to combine the construction of infrastructure with this submission, because there was a discussion in the Sejm about the definition of high-speed passenger transport, which combined the definition contained in the directive for market purposes with the construction of high-speed rail. I would rather avoid this call because it aroused big controversy or big questions in the Sejm. I mean. In my opinion, they were unjustified. Nevertheless, if there are no questions about this, I will not develop a thread. But I can say, of course, that every expense on railway infrastructure has its reasons. The Poznań project is evaluated, he is an EU project, he is also under the supervision of our friends from the European Union, we report regularly. He was also judged, if memory does not fail me, by the JASPERS initiative, she also judged this undertaking at one time, from this point of view. It seems to me that this is a good project, which will certainly lead to the fact that after it has been completed, once the line has been certified for these new technical speeds, the travel time will be reduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u96	Thank you very much. Now Senator Benjamin Godyla is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u97	Minister, my question concerns payments to PKP Intercity. Does this surcharge increase or decrease in relation to payments in previous years? It is known that... here you read that we pay PLN 600 million in total. Well, when are we gonna pay less? Because it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u98	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. That question isn't about the submission either, but... Well, not applicable. You're welcome, too. I may remind you of the formula that I always make, but let me remind you: the senators can now ask questions that last no longer than a minute but which concern the agenda item. It seems that this question goes beyond this point. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u99	By supplementing Intercity's passenger transport, we pay to make it possible to move within the country, but also to use international transport, because as a Polish State, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are the organizer of international transport. This money is used to start trains that do not balance economically. If these trains were to balance economically, it would be necessary to raise ticket prices or add to them. And that's the choice. If we want to invest in the most friendly transport that is rail transport, we have to bear such an expense. If we want to modernise rolling stock to move in comfortable conditions, we need to find a way to finance it. And here's the question: are we supposed to develop rail transport by, of course, making the least of it possible By building the best offer, by attracting as many passengers to trains as possible, so that it is as close as possible to this economic dimension of the journey, or by doing what was done before, that is to cut the connections because they are not economical? In my opinion, it is important to invest in the most environmentally friendly and safest transport that is rail transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. The first concerns what the European Commission has accused us of implementing the 2012 Directive, of course in general. Why are we taking this late when it comes to the execution of these charges... or, on the contrary, the projects that would carry out these charges... Two. How will it be in the future, according to your assessment? Will it be that our companies will also enter the internal market of European countries, or will only external companies from outside Poland enter the Polish market? In other words, could you compare the powers that we give to external entities in our law with those that could have our companies, our entities, let's assume, on railway lines, for example. The Federal Republic of Germany?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u102	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u103	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the end of 2016, we have implemented, one can say, the third railway package, namely this Directive 34, it has started its functioning. It is a very large amendment of the law on rail transport, the largest for several years, as well as a big novelty for the market. With regard to this change, the European Commission pointed out, as it was already in force, that there were several points in its view, which were quite carefully discussed in the explanatory memorandum, which had not been implemented. This concerned the exclusion from the scope of the licensing of railway undertakings of a minor issue relating to the financing of the infrastructure manager, the conditions for access to services and the second point of Annex, the service which may be provided to railway undertakings You have to read the annexes here. The implementation plan or the functions of the regulatory authority in connection with Annex 7 of that Directive. During the work on the implementation of the fourth railway package, which came quite quickly, but we are actually acting, we are in a phase of delay, we have decided to combine these two reservations with the Commission, namely the failure to implement the fourth package, the market part, with the clarification of the implementation of Directive 34. Hence, the bill is in the form in which it is submitted to the High Senate. As regards the question of competitiveness, in this phase or in this open access formula, the rules will be the same in this legal formula. So the intention of these provisions, which we are implementing, is not to implement anything more than what the directive requires us to do. Assuming that the implementation of the Directive in all countries is the same as it should be in a perfect model, everyone will have the same powers under the Directive. A separate issue is the safety systems of Class B, i.e. national, how they work in individual countries, whether vehicles are certified, what the requirements for drivers will be, whether they will need to know the perfect French language, or whether it is enough English, to what extent... These are issues outside this directive. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u104	Yes, you can. Yes, please fill in the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u105	Minister, maybe I'll cut the thought short. Does the European Union, specifically the European Commission, require more from us in this regard than from other countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u106	No. We are implementing the directive directly. We're trying to put it straight into legal order. I do not feel the pressure to implement more in the framework of the directive, the fourth railway package. I mean. we will not implement anything else, because this would in turn be a superregulation that would have been pointed out to us earlier at the appropriate level by the Minister responsible for European affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u108	I would like to ask the Minister, because I asked the question at the beginning, since when in the opinion of the government can appear on a noticeable scale of non-Polish carriers on particularly attractive routes, but the Minister did not answer me. And there should be some knowledge in the resort about this, whether or not they should be expected to enter quickly, whether there are any barriers that will prevent it. My second question concerns, however, the issue of lateness. As I understand it, there will be an increased standard of comfort for a passenger who, by no fault of his own, did not arrive at the meeting place or at some event to which he was going by public transport. Because the procedures in this area, which are now, are, I would say, quite tedious, long-term and many of them must unfortunately give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u109	Thank you very much. In fact, I did not answer the senator's first question with premeditation, because it is difficult to speculate what business plans for the opening of the Polish railway market have foreign carriers. This is, of course, a matter in which we are trying to make a point, but I am not going to talk about it publicly. The experience of today is as follows. There are 2 or 3 open access decisions and everyone can see how and whether they are implemented by the carrier who obtained them and has the right to carry out passenger transport on the basis of the decision received. I rather look at the railway market of Poland so that we build our own potential, and we are not afraid of the potential of others. And that's the answer to the first question. On the second question, concerning passenger rights not covered by this submission, I will say that, of course, there is also work to be done to simplify these complaints issues. Work is also underway at European Commission level to standardise and tighten this up, to increase compensation levels. We're gonna have to adapt to that. Everyone's gonna have to adapt to that. But, of course, the primary goal is that the train arrives in time, leaves, or maybe even more arrives in time according to the ticket purchased. And then we'll be less concerned about the complaint procedures... Although I have other experience and I happened to miss the train because of my own fault, and still some compensation, instructed by your cashier, got me, which was absolutely surprising, because I was late and the train ran away, and not the train was late or I didn't get on that train. These procedures could always be better, but sometimes they are also surprising.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Mariusz Gromko, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Surely this market release will bring a better offer for the passenger, but it can be expected that foreign carriers will, at least at the first stage, offer their services on these most attractive lines. There's gonna be competition here, which is probably gonna make the rides cheaper. Does the resort therefore see any risks to other less frequent lines, sections, routes at a time when revenues from handling these more attractive lines may be lower for the carrier? Here we will have to provide funding in some other way on these unattractive sections.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u112	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u113	Thank you very much. Of course, that's the risk, but it's a business risk, certainly. All I can say is that PKP Intercity brings profit, of course it has compensation for starting public service trains, but as part of its business it brings profit, invests in rolling stock and wants to be a player in this market, not its passive observer. And on this basis it builds optimism about the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u114	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I believe that this discussion we have just had is important for the quality of our collective life. Rail transport is now, you can say, the eye of the European Commission and very many governments. And rightly so, because it is, as the Minister pointed out, the most ecological, safe and, so to speak, environmentally friendly and very much other qualities of the form of movement of persons and goods. Of course we know that this law, this regulation concerns passenger transport, freight transport is already covered by these regulations. We know that on Polish railway routes other carriers can use our railway infrastructure. What I've been trying to find out from the Minister... These questions were addressed in one direction, and concerned what the citizen would have from this regulation, speaking in the colloquial language, when competition could arise, real competition for Intercita, especially on those attractive routes which are besieged. What they are, we all know. Not because of the location of my constituency, the Ciechan subregion... Of course, the E65 railway route interests me, i.e. the Warsaw route Gdynia, which, as we know, has been modernised for many years. But there are many more attractive routes. The Minister, hiding from trade secrets, risk, avoided such more unambiguous answers. I'm interested in this issue, I've read all kinds of publications, and I know This was the result of these press publications. The fact that it is not such a distant period is when, indeed, these aliens, that is, foreign carriers, will appear on these routes and when the prices will actually fall. Senator Gromko drew attention to the very important problem that arises. Namely, with rails it is like an attractive part, where there is a heavy burden on passengers, and it is a profitable activity, but there are also many railway lines, connections which for obvious reasons are not so commercial. So that the system of operating aid may not be sufficient when the income of the main Polish players, i.e. mainly Intercity, and other railway operators on these profitable routes, can fall, there may also be a weakening of those connections which are less attractive and which are, necessarily, smaller centres, less urbanised Whether it's the eastern walls or other areas of Poland. This is, I think, a major challenge in our discussion on the future of rail transport, because we see that at the moment there is such a trend in the European Union that even though rail transport cannot be combined only and exclusively with the economic account... You just have to watch. wider, i.e. through the perspective of environmental issues, through the prism of the quality and standard of living of inhabitants, and therefore needs to be sought for transport financing solutions which will allow reasonable prices from the perspective of the user's pockets in this respect, while at the same time ensuring such a network of connections 'Cause that's important, too. That you won't have to wait for a 24-hour train, just like when there was just one call a day for a given relationship. So these are the big challenges that are still ahead of us. And I think work on this should continue. It is valuable to inform the Minister that when it comes to appeal procedures... I, as a person who drives public transport quite often, can say that unfortunately the problem... I would not share the Minister's optimism that we are in the EU's average standards when it comes to train delays. I think the average experience of a citizen, user or rail passenger is different. Therefore, the standards in this respect, including some obligation on carriers to introduce easier procedures for passengers to obtain compensation, who for some reason could not reach a specific location, are important. The information was valuable, too. That's what the Senator rapporteur was talking about. That Polish carriers are in favour of this proposed regulation. This declaration was an important reason for me to have full knowledge of my position on this matter. Therefore, this regulation, which should improve the railway offer for passengers, for rail customers, seems to be of the utmost support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does the Minister have anything to say about it? Minister? No? One sentence because... One sentence, please. One sentence. That's how I felt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u117	I mean, two, sorry, two, because I forgot... We won't count, we won't be that thorough. I'll try... If there's three, we'll listen, too. However, I will stress that punctuality on the Polish railway is at a very good, high level. Of course, those cases that happen... Well, we try each time to improve response procedures and all other possible procedures where it is possible to predict such an event, so that this parameter is even higher, even better, because we want to drive on time 100% As close as possible to 100%. All activities and investments serve this purpose. The aim is to ensure that infrastructure elements that are worn out, old, destroyed, eliminate, so that they do not hinder traffic. It's so short. And the second sentence is about thanking you for including this bill on today's agenda, because it has greatly accelerated the work. Thank you very much to the House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u118	Thank you very much. I'll tell Marshal Grodzko. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We move on to the next item, the third item on the agenda: information on the Ombudsman's activities and the status of respect for human rights and human rights in 2018. The text of the information is provided in print No 51. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of the information at its meeting on 5 February 2020. I would like to welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome very much. I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u119	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present an annual report and information on the status of respect for human rights and the citizen in 2018. Starting with my speech, I would first of all like to thank my colleagues and colleagues for another year of hard work. [[Applause]] Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, The deadline for submitting the annual Ombudsman's information in the Senate for 2018 was during the next election campaign, this time before the presidential election. I would like to start by saying the request I make every time a campaign is being campaigned not to treat my speech as a political campaign or any pre-election game, because the most important thing for the ombudsman is how human rights and rights and civil liberties are protected and implemented, and what I am going to say relates to every authority, regardless of which party at a given time exercises power. Please also do not use my annual information for instrumental purposes. I would like to stress that I am fulfilling my tasks in terms of a 5-year term and I am doing this in the interests of all citizens, including all voters. I would also like to stress in this context that my recent speech in this House, on the independence of the judiciary, was caused only and exclusively by concern for the system of the protection of human rights and freedoms and the independence of the judiciary is a guarantee of civil rights and freedoms. I would also like to point out that what constitutes the main basis for the preparation of the annual report are numerous complaints and letters of concern addressed to the Ombudsman's Office, complaints which are essentially independent of such a current policy, although they are also related to this current policy, and that all that I am going to talk about are not theoretical, invented, but resulting from human complaints resulting from a sense of harm. I would also like to stress that, by presenting an annual report, I would like to appreciate those legislative changes, which were also the subject of the Senate's work, because the Senate had a great role in preparing and implementing certain legislative amendments. In particular, I would like to point out that in the so-called. In the meantime, for example, a law was adopted amending the Law on the recognition of invalid judgments given against persons being repressed for the sake of the independent existence of the Polish State or the Law of 19 July 2019 on the special powers of persons injured in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006 or the Act on ensuring accessibility for persons with special needs. I am talking about these laws, because these are examples of laws where the Ombudsman's office demanded specific legal changes. It took some time, but we managed to make some real changes. I would also like to inform you that in 2018 'cause this period includes a report... Here I would like to add that, in the previous Senate term, I did not have time to present a report for 2018, which is why perhaps there is now such a temporary remoteness. However, I would like to stress that I have tried very hard to work with other spokespersons, in particular the spokesperson for children's rights, the spokesperson for patients, the financial spokesman, and recently also the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I would also like to stress that the Ombudsman is constantly working with the Supreme Audit Chamber and appreciates its work. We regularly suggest to the Supreme Audit Chamber what actions should be covered by checks, and we try to indicate in various speeches what changes should be made in the functioning of our country, based on the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I would like to inform the High House that during the last Civil Rights Congress held in December 2019, together with the other spokespersons, we agreed that a permanent formula for meetings and consultations is needed so that we can exchange experiences and seek synergies for our actions. The other spokespersons, you can say, approved this idea and this kind of regular meetings we have in the plan. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman's report is of particular importance for the implementation of the Article. 212 constitutions. Please note that the Ombudsman is the constitutional body which not only provides the High House, as well as, of course, the Sejm with a report on its activities, from what he has done, but also provides information about the state of compliance with human and citizens' freedoms and rights. This is a very important thing because this is the form by which the Ombudsman can convey certain reservations and information on how the law is respected. It is also worth remembering that the right to complain to the Ombudsman is one of the rights of citizens, one of the mechanisms for protecting rights. And, of course, citizens of the Republic of Poland, but not only citizens, because all those who feel that their rights have been violated, are quite intensively taking advantage of this possibility. In 2018 there were more than 25 thousand new cases reported, and we also have numerous visits to the Ombudsman's office in Warsaw, but also in field offices in Wrocław, Gdańsk and Katowice. We also run business parties in more than 10 cities. They operate in such a way that a staff member of the Ombudsman's Office is on duty once a month. We're also running a hotline. In 2018 there were over 32 thousand telephone contacts with the Ombudsman's office. We're also taking business from the state. In 2018, we took 615 public cases. And for me, it is very important that we not only wait for complaints to be based not only on what citizens will turn to the Ombudsman, but also be, you can say, in the current contact with citizens. And in 2018 I continued the programme of regional ombudsman trips. I visited 50 cities where I organized meetings, among others. I was in Bełchatów, Gołdapi, Lublin, Radomsko, Sandomierz, Siemiatycze, Szczecin or Wieruszów. And I could add another 40 cities here. These are important meetings, because citizens often address completely different topics than those discussed at central level. This gives us inspiration both to intervene, sometimes also to procedural interventions, as well as to subsequent general speeches. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] The Ombudsman's report naturally brings to light difficult, painful issues concerning violations of our rights. We are looking at the constitution as a whole, at all the guarantees it contains. We are also looking at these international agreements as a whole, which give rise to very specific rights for our citizens. Of course, it is not possible during my speech to present all the problems that we signalled in the annual report and which were the subject of general speeches. Well, the report is a thick book, and we were still trying to be very, I would say, precise and cost-effective in terms of presenting information about what was happening and our observations for 2018. Therefore, Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, allow me to point out several important substantive problems, but also issues concerning mechanisms for the protection of individual rights and freedoms. Let's start with the situation of people with disabilities and the situation of carers with disabilities. All the time, despite many general speeches and calls from NGOs, we have not reformed the disability case-law system, nor have we replaced the institution with an incapacity system to support decision-making. Many of the recommendations of the UN Committee on Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which have been issued 2 years, has not been implemented. There is also a lack of such determination in the implementation of the process of deinstitutionalisation of care for persons with disabilities. However, what seems particularly difficult to me from the point of view of the functioning of the rule of law is that it has been six years since the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on care services for carers with disabilities has not been enforced. And it is difficult for me to understand why this sentence was not executed, why it was not reserved in the budget for the execution of that judgment. Moreover, it is difficult for me to understand why these representatives of cities who are guided by the direct execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, e.g. Sopot representatives are in trouble about the charge of breaching public finance discipline. There are also many complaints from parents of pupils with disabilities who describe educational problems, with the lack of such a sufficient, full approach to the idea of inclusive education. We also have problems connected with, for example, the transport of people with disabilities, children with disabilities to schools. These problems are very much, I think we can quietly devote a multi-hour session of the same discussion on the issues of people with disabilities and their carers, which is why I only signal certain issues. But I would like to inform you that on 24 March in the Ombudsman's office we are holding a special meeting for Members and Senators who are particularly interested in this issue. And during this meeting I would like to sum up the five-year actions of the Ombudsman, but also to indicate what is to be done, what is to be fixed in Poland. The second point I'd like to point out and which I really... Let me put it this way: I don't know what arguments I'm going to use so we can deal with this comprehensively. This is about the situation at the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour in Gostynin. The number of people who live there is constantly increasing. Their situation is not improving, it is not clear enough despite many, in fact several dozen speeches by the Ombudsman to various bodies, despite the organisation of special conferences. We are also dealing with the fact that the courts, directing people to the center in Gostynin, decide to apply rules that are more suitable, I would say, to resolve private legal disputes than to deprive anyone of freedom. The law on the basis of which the centre in Gostynin was founded has many legal gaps and should be completely amended. The very philosophy of functioning of the centre in Gostynin should be changed. What's more, we have good patterns. A good model is in Germany, where a similar centre operates and its operation is completely different, there are completely different conditions, there is different treatment. So you can achieve the public goal, which was set up by a law regulating the establishment of a centre in Gostynin, while at the same time not violating other rights. Another point I would like to mention is the problem of violence in police stations. Literally a few days ago, we heard about the sentence on the torture of Igor Stachowiak at the Wrocław police station. For us at the time, not only the case of Igor Stachowiak was very important, but also the case concerning the incident at the Ryki police station. We all know about the Igor Stachowiak case, and what happened at the Ryki police station, we wouldn't have known if it hadn't been for a completely random visit from the representatives of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, the inhuman prevention mechanism and degrading treatment operating within the Ombudsman's office. His representatives are assigned to visit the prisons on a regular basis. Representatives of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, i.e. employees of the Ombudsman's office, there, on the spot, within the framework of, you can say, a regular, systematic visit met a person who was simply a victim of police violence. I mean, in order to solve this problem, we need to make some concrete, systemic changes. We must ensure real access to legal assistance as soon as it is stopped. That's what I call it. the institution of the lawyer, the first-hour legal adviser. We need to introduce a precise definition of torture into the criminal code, we need to introduce mandatory recording of police interventions throughout the country. We need to focus on better training of officers, selection of staff and make it actually take this issue very seriously. Unfortunately, I feel that these systemic activities are still lacking. There is also a lack of systemic action in the effective fight against hate crimes that are regulated by Article. 256 and 257 criminal code. There's a lot of space here we can talk about. We can talk about clarification of the criminal code, we can talk about greater sensitivity to online crimes In this respect, there is a need for greater public participation in this area, in particular as regards cooperation with social networks. We can also talk about educational activities. All this has been found by my... actions that should be taken, I summarized in a set of 20 recommendations that I made to Prime Minister Morawiecki. The second letter, which I sent at a similar time, concerned matters of prosecution proceedings which either had been dismissed or had been carried out for too long. For example: I remember that in my letter to the Attorney General I pointed to the famous case of death certificates, which were issued by the All-Polish Youth in the case of city presidents, including the dead. Paul Adamowicz. This case isn't actually over until today. It's been so many years, and it's actually hard to even answer the question of why. Things like this are usually more common in the world, and I don't see enough determination from the D.A.'s office to fight hate crimes. A lot of complaints that go to the Ombudsman's office are environmental issues. These are also the topics that are particularly visible if you visit individual cities with problems of odor, smog, burdensome investments, landfills of garbage that are arson, lack sufficient support for municipalities in the disposal of garbage. These are powerful problems. I would like to appreciate recent legal and organisational changes regarding the functioning of voivodship environmental inspections. The fact that we have more jobs is certainly a step in the right direction; this means that there are more tools in this area. However, I would particularly like to point out that we lack the very serious treatment of recommendations and legal principles resulting from the Aarhus Convention, in particular regarding the participation of citizens in the consultation of various environmental changes that may affect their comfort of life. Besides, I'm still waiting for a comprehensive anti-odore bill. We know very well that we are all interested in environmental protection at many different levels. For example, a recent debate on the railways, very interesting, which I had the opportunity to observe, shows how important it is. We are aware that rail transport is the one that provides a greater level of sustainable environmental protection. However, in the context of this issue I would like to encourage the Senate of the Republic of Poland to give special consideration. I would like to encourage you to look at our constitution, because we often talk about rights, including the right to a clean environment, but sometimes there is a charge against me: Mr. Spokesman, you are still talking about rights, and what about civic duties? There's one rule in the constitution that I think isn't appreciated. It's a recipe. Article 2 86th Constitution, which says this: "Everyone is obliged to take care of the state of the environment and is responsible for its deterioration. The principles of this liability are laid down by law. Of course, this provision can be dealt with in this way: let us introduce further laws, further provisions which will determine the extent to which this obligation is to be fulfilled for environmental reasons. But perhaps the Senate could debate what this obligation means in modern Poland from a moral point of view? What does it mean for citizens? How should they carry out this obligation in their daily lives, not only by fulfilling legal standards, but by taking action to protect the environment within their own environment? It seems to me that it is very important to look at our constitution in this way too, i.e. as a certain axiological challenge, not just an obligation that can be translated into very specific legal norms. To move on to further topics, I would like to point out And that's a big part of the Ombudsman's business too. That Poland lacks a systematic approach to the problems of people affected by homelessness crisis. We need better coordination of State action in this area. I called on the Prime Minister of the Republic to appoint a government representative to prevent homelessness; unfortunately, this did not happen. And these are the topics for which the problem lies in the cooperation of individual ministries, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, that is what this is about. This coordination would be really useful. I also see the important role of the state in creating a mental change in the perception of homeless people in the social area. But a particular threat. The homelessness of young people is not enough in Poland, as I think about it. Homelessness doesn't mean that we're young. We are associated with people we see on the streets, sometimes with people we know they live in homeless shelters. But young people, including young people, also leave their homes for various reasons. The reason is conflict with parents, identity problems, addiction, minor crime, educational problems. And then, once they've left the house, they have a hard time getting back to the house. They become outsiders, and the state tries not to see them in the law, it does not create sufficient support systems. I think this is something that we should talk about much more often. While in the Senate, which is taking special action regarding contacts with citizens of the Republic of Poland who are abroad, I would like to point out that this is a subject that should be of interest to us precisely from the point of view of homelessness, because in the streets of Manchester, London, Munich, Paris there are citizens of the Republic of Poland. They even often have decent social support, but that's not the point. The point is whether they have created, one can say, decent bridges that would allow them to return to Poland with dignity. And I think that the Senate could play a very important role in shaping policies that support organisations in other countries that help homeless Poles, also in the context of providing them with space for a decent return to their homeland. Recently, actually the last day before the Brexit, I was in the UK and I had the privilege of meeting the mayor of London Sadiq Khan, with whom I had discussed cooperation on this subject. And I am glad that I managed to create this contact, because I hope that from this there will be very specific cooperation programmes, all the more so that such cooperation programmes between Warsaw and Paris or Warsaw and Munich are slowly being created. Speaking of homelessness, it's impossible not to touch the subject of the housing situation. There are still a lot of problems in Poland with the availability of social housing, but solving the problem of homelessness is not only about building more shelters, but also about building training apartments or low rent social housing in which such people can live. But this isn't even about homeless people. It is simply about meeting the needs of housing, as our constitution provides for in the article. 75. This programming standard as set out in Article. 75 probably is not fully implemented in Poland. There are a lot of complaints to the office about the availability of social housing, but also the rules for granting social housing. Driving around Poland, we meet e.g. with a common problem that affects especially older people, namely the problem of so-called. prisoners of the fourth floor, i.e. people who are disabled, elderly, with mobility restrictions and who, living on this fourth floor, unfortunately, without an elevator, are unable to get home or get out of the house, and there are some ideas that could be taken on a national scale to solve this problem and pay more attention to it. I would like to talk about this context of rights, which are widely understood as social rights, and I would also like to talk about the problem of transport exclusion. I am glad that we are increasingly aware of what this problem is all about. However, we are still far away, really far from meeting real needs. And it is worth remembering that this exclusion of transport is not just a matter in itself, because it affects the exercise of other rights: the right to education, the right to access culture, the right to work, the rights of seniors or What interests me especially as a person who was born in a small village The right of equal access to education. When I was recently at a meeting at a school in Plots in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, it was a team of upper secondary schools. He said: "My children, my young people, because of the exclusion of transport and the fact that buses either don't run irregularly, or they don't exist at all, and for this you have to pay for them at the high school level, you already have a limited choice of life, you have to start working already, you have to look for opportunities to realize your everyday life, and you can't think about schools as naturally and normally as students from Warsaw or from Silesia who do not experience such problems. And let us remember that many people who want to improve the quality of their lives would like to get a job or would like to go to a better school, simply face this problem on a daily basis, and it is both young people and people with disabilities. Of course, there is a very big problem in which complaints are addressed to the Ombudsman's office, and there are health problems. I don't want to compete here... I will not enter into a debate that warms up public opinion in recent weeks, and I will simply talk about what we have been most interested in in recent years. This is the case: the situation of the SORs; the queues to doctors; the absence of doctors and nurses in many places; the exit from the profession or departure of staff to other European Union countries; the multi-natality that arises in this area; the absence of the implementation of a national programme for rare diseases; access to medicines, especially in terms of target imports and in the context of emergency access to medical technologies. These are also, you can say, sectoral problems, such as geriatrics and in particular And I'd say three more words. Children's psychiatry. Notice that in the case of adult psychiatry, something has started, mental health centers have been created as a pilot program. Somehow, child psychiatry was not included in the same level of interest. If we're wondering if she's needed, let's take a look at the statistics. In 2018, 98,000 children and young people called the 116 111 phone. We talk so much about family support in Poland, about how important family is, and we forget about real interest in matters that are also problems in the family, situations where children may not have had a chance or for various other reasons could not turn to their parents. And I am pleased in this context that the Senate sees this problem and that in two weeks' time, I understand, there will be a serious debate, in cooperation with the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, on this very subject. I hope that perhaps something has finally started in this public debate and that these many-year appeals, whether it be the child's spokesperson Mark Michalak or mine, have already come to such an end that there will be a real change. Speaking of children and young people, I would add that there have been a lot of complaints in the Ombudsman's office about education reform. The accumulation of the yearbooks has caused a lot of stress and, I think, unnecessary emotions. But it seems to me that the most important issue at the moment is simply reduced funding for education in Poland, which is the consequence changes in the tax system, for example. In the report I describe events from 2018, but they, I would say, drag out and are up to date. Literally a few days ago I received a report prepared by the Polish Towns Association on the state of finances of local government units. This is a report prepared for the Joint Government and Local Government Commission updated with the latest data. It shows that we have a dramatic situation in education due to underfinancing of tasks through educational subsidies and by limiting the remaining budgetary revenues to local government units. And we need to know that it's just that local governments have a harder time. In particular the poor ones, those who do not have sufficient cash resources and that this results in the quality of the education offered. I would like to point out that for me it is also very important that systematic anti-discrimination education should be carried out in schools. I believe that school should be a place where young people are taught to respect others and that it can be done without violating the right of parents to raise their children according to their own beliefs. This is directly linked for me with the above mentioned issue of support for children and young people of developmental age. After all, this crisis of child psychiatry is an expression of earlier problems. Specialists say that if there was good support, parents and children would not need support at the level of psychiatry itself. Because we have bigger problems, such as increasing verbal violence in schools, watching strategist on the Internet, a kind of loneliness caused by the use of mobile phones and tablets by young people in the use of the Internet and lack of adequate educational help from teachers and parents. All of this causes further development problems and the state should take greater responsibility for this. Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Of course, a large part of the Ombudsman's activities concern a large part of the Ombudsman's activities. various types of problems related to the availability of social rights. We deal with the famous 1953 yearbook, we deal with the subject of income threshold, as regards the maintenance fund, we deal with the problems of the conversion of pensions, including pensions and pensions of people who worked under harmful conditions, or people whose documents have disappeared in the past. It's a lot of different things, more or less specific. One of the topics that I think we should be interested in, because it has not been resolved all the time, is access to 500+ for those families where one parent is abroad and there is a suspicion that he may receive a family benefit abroad, so he has limited access to the benefit of 500+ here in the country. It seems that we still have a problem with the proper coordination of social security and social support systems with other Member States of the European Union, where those who do not receive benefits are lost. Numerous complaints to the Ombudsman's Office concern the consequences of the Law of 16 December 2016, so-called. Repressive law, which introduced collective responsibility mechanisms and cut pensions for many people. The problem is that these people, trying to assert their rights, have very powerful difficulties in identifying their cases before the courts. In the coming months, we should expect a Supreme Court judgment with seven judges, which may give some hope to the victims. I am pleased to be able to discuss this problem and discuss these actions of the Ombudsman at the conference held on 16 December 2019 on the third anniversary of the adoption of this law. Surveillance is also a problem with respect to civil rights and freedoms. It's not true that, as it is sometimes said, Fair citizens have nothing to fear because public authorities should not collect, collect and share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state. And it is not only about the fundamental right to privacy, but also about other guarantees, such as guarantees of journalistic secrecy or attorney-client privilege. In this case, the opinion of the Venice Commission was issued in 2016, which very critically assessed our legal system in this respect. The most important conclusion of this opinion indicated that data obtained in connection with access to telecommunications, postal and online data should be subject to an effective supervisory and control system by an independent authority. The current control mechanism, i.e. the six-month statistical reports presented to the courts, is insufficient. Moreover, this issue has also emerged in the context of various current events which are of interest to the public. I try to repeat all the time that in Poland there is a need both to correct the law in this respect and to introduce an independent control body over the activities of special services. Until we do that, we're gonna have a problem with the misuse of surveillance powers. I would also like to point out that one of the cases that is also well known to the Senate is the protection of parental rights. The Ombudsman cooperates with the environments of parents who are complaining about the current legislation, including the functioning of courts in this area. The problem is that we are dealing with a very powerful social change that is taking place, a change that, in the event of a break-up, causes conflict. Unfortunately, the child is at the heart of this conflict, and our regulations, I would say, do not keep up with modern problems, are far behind what causes growing frustration. I regret that the bill introducing immediate alimony was not finally passed, because I treated it as... It was a government project and I treated it as a remedy to solve one of the conflicts that are, or conflict for money, about how much a parent would pay for a child. I also regret that the issue of the Senate project was not brought to an end when it comes to the revision of the family and care code, and I hope that the Senate will also take care of it in this term of office. I would also like to point out that with regard to material problems or problems which are indicated to the Ombudsman Not only the Ombudsman, but also the financial spokesman or the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection This is important for consumers' rights. We're interested in the whole system, i.e. whether the whole system is working correctly or if EU law is properly implemented in this area. The judgment in the case of the Dziubak State, which concerned franc credits, was issued in October 2019 but, of course, in 2018 we also dealt with these issues. They remain valid, there is still a large group of people who claim to have been harmed by such practices, by abusive consumer practices. In the end, although these substantive problems could be said for a long time, I would still like to talk about the situation of various social groups which are excluded, humiliated, marginalized in Poland. The fact that we are dealing with such practice in Poland, that it is possible to exclude certain social groups without penalty Homosexuals, transgenderers, migrants The fact that we can harass non-governmental activists who deal with such rights is something that the Ombudsman will never be able to reconcile with. Moreover, at such moments I always recall the words and actions of one of my predecessors, sleep. Janusz Kochanowski, who at the very beginning, when he was in office, said: yes, I am from the point of view of dealing with excluded groups. He did a lot at that time for transgender people, for example. It cannot be that, on the one hand, there is a constitution that guarantees equal treatment, prohibits discrimination, and on the other hand there are various attempts Sometimes verbal, sometimes also legal, exclusion of these persons outside the social brackets, as if they did not deserve the care of the Republic. I would like to stress that the Ombudsman plays a particular role because he is not only exercising his mandate under the Constitution but also acting as an independent body for equal treatment. This makes me have to insist on respecting the rights of all persons, all groups that are or can be discriminated against. The rights of these people, the different groups that are discriminated against, I will consistently insist on. Dear Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I was talking about very specific problems. I could mention further, more specific issues, specific issues relating to criminal procedure, conditions in prisons and other places of imprisonment, various rights and freedoms of a political nature, freedom of expression and social rights, but I think it is worth pointing out here that the protection of rights depends on whether a proper institutional system for the protection of individual rights and freedoms has been created. In many situations I try to recall the text of our recital. The preamble has 2 very important passages that refer to the creation of the whole institutional system. First of all, the preamble is that we must be reminded of the bitter experiences of the time when fundamental freedoms and human rights were violated in our Homeland. Then, in the preamble, it is said this: wishing to emphasize Forever guarantee civil rights, and the work of public institutions to ensure fairness and efficiency, we establish a constitution. I stress this once again: wishing to guarantee civil rights forever. That is why we have an institutional system enshrined in the Constitution so that these rights are guaranteed forever. What's more, this institutional system... The Constitution refers not only to the fact that we in the country will establish an appropriate system. That is why provisions are introduced into the Constitution concerning the conclusion of international agreements or the transfer of certain powers to organisations such as the European Union, in order to ensure that these values which result from the Constitution are implemented. And unfortunately, I'm remembering 2018 and I'm gonna say yes. In 2018 there were moments where I even had a sense of optimism. This was the year when the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a provisional order on 19 October which led to the fact that 20 Supreme Court judges were not forced to retire, that these judges, at least some of them, are still ruling today in the Supreme Court. One of the threats that is fundamental is, of course, the threat to the independence of the judiciary, the threat that manifests itself through various institutional changes, but also through very specific harassment against judges, repressive actions, disciplinary proceedings. Some judges are even These are the events of the last few weeks. They are suspended for their judicial activities. In 2018 the foundations for these actions were established. The second problem is the independence of the prosecutors. In fact, the report of the Venice Commission on the independence of prosecutors was ignored, and the report of the GRECO, which is the institution that is fighting corruption and which indicated that there was a problem with the Polish construction of the Attorney General's office, a problem concerning the political merger of the role of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General with a very large potential to influence the activities of his subordinate prosecutors. What, of course, concerns me, which has been happening for years, are disciplinary proceedings against prosecutors, degradation from the State's Attorney's Office to the level of the district or forced delegations of prosecutors. This is where the case of Mr. Mariusz Krasonia became a symbolic case. The right to access public information, but also the freedom to obtain information, is also a mechanism for protecting rights. In my opinion, we have a lot of problems in this regard. The most important is the public television mission. I spoke at the outset about the failure of the Constitutional Tribunal to comply with the judgment on care services for carers of persons with disabilities. The same is true of the Court's judgment of 13 December 2016 on the manner in which public media powers are filled. In this respect, I directed a number of speeches to the Ministry of Culture. Once there was even a promise, a guarantee that the bill was being prepared, but Which, of course, we know from the current debate, there has been no change in this regard. This has consequences as regards the right of citizens to obtain information, as well as the implementation of the principle of pluralism of public media activities. The protection of rights is also exercised by courts as such. I'm not talking here. only about the issue of independence. Unless there is a sense of cooperation and trust between the executive and legislative authorities and the judiciary, it is difficult to hope for an improvement in the efficiency of the courts. There are many postulates that I presented in 2017 with full faith that maybe this is a moment of new opening. We then made such a large list of the various desirable changes in the justice system and presented this to the President's Registry when the President vetoed the judicial laws and then began to reflect on subsequent changes. In fact, they were not realized. One of the most important laws is the Law on forensic experts. I think it should be adopted. Not to mention a better staffing, assistant staff, also a judge's or a court reporter's... Finally, of course, the situation at the Constitutional Court is a threat to the protection of civil rights and freedoms. The question arises as to whether the Constitutional Tribunal is currently a guardian of the Constitution. In recent days, two such large, important texts have appeared by people who are given universal authority in the legal community, Professor Małgorzata Pyziak-Szafnicka and Mr Lech Garlicki. Generally, the conclusion of these texts is not optimistic. I'd like to quote Professor's words. Pyziak-Szafnicka: observation of the activity of the Constitutional Tribunal over the last 3 years reveals the new role of this body, namely the legitimacy of the laws adopted by the parliamentary majority and the acts taken by the President of the Republic from the same political camp. This is a serious voice of a person of great authority, a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest, an educator of many generations of lawyers. At the very end of my speech This end is going to be a little longer, which is why I'm announcing this end. I would like to talk about a few general principles that seem important to me, those that concern me. Poland has been evaluated several times in recent years by various bodies of international organisations. I was talking about the Venice Commission, about Greco, about the UN Committee. These institutions operate on the basis of international agreements which Poland has ratified. The Ombudsman shall endeavour to cooperate with those institutions in accordance with Article. 17a of the Ombudsman's Act, but I would like to stress that the recommendations that result from the actions of these bodies should not be treated as hostile acts towards the State, but as good advice, the desire to cooperate positively and improve the situation of citizens, like the external look of a friend who looks with concern and concern at what is happening in Poland. I would like to stress that Poland has been proud for many years that it has been the creator of many new doctrines in terms of cooperation at European level. Marshal Seweryński very beautifully initiated the process of discussing the execution of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in the Senate, for which, I think, our Senate was praised in the international arena. Hence the moment when all these recommendations are ignored... Moreover, Poland has recently been subject to the monitoring procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as the only country from the European Union. It's not optimistic. The same applies to cooperation within the European Union, because citizens of the Republic of Poland are also citizens of the European Union, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is a Charter which also defines the rights of citizens of the Republic of Poland, the European Parliament is also our Parliament, the European Commission is an organ that performs tasks also in our interest, and the Court of Justice of the European Union is also our court. I can only regret that such deep mistrust is growing. on cooperation at international and European level, because I believe that this is the expression not only the crisis, but also the lack of willingness to guarantee full protection of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Poland. Our constitution has gone in a completely different direction, has allowed us to anchor this protection in international cooperation and membership in the European Union, and we should appreciate it, respect it and respect it as a civilizational achievement of Poland, not treat it disrespectfully. I say this not only as an ombudsman, but also as a representative of a generation that has benefited so much from European integration. I would like to stress that as a civil servant who has sworn to uphold the rights and freedoms set out in the Constitution of international agreements, I will, to the very end, insist on respecting these international obligations and will take seriously all those who care about the same and who treat Poland internationally as a partner for discussion in a spirit of mutual understanding and values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Although my speech concerns 2018, there is no way to escape what happened after this period and where we are today. I would like to point out the two processes that have dominated our present and have a particular impact on the lives of citizens. The first process has many positive aspects, because it involves economic development, it concerns changes in the material and social situation of entire social groups, and it also concerns positive changes in the respect of labour law. Of course, I have no doubt, I have repeatedly said that this process has a positive impact on the implementation of many civil rights, including in particular social rights. Reducing unemployment and continuous economic growth is a reason to be proud for many generations of Poles, it also translates into the quality of their daily lives, an increased sense of social egalitarianism, and also to emerge from the crisis of poverty of certain social groups, especially families of many children. The second process is unfortunately destructive, destructive to the state and society. It involves politicising the state, adapting its law, institutions and way of action to the needs of the parties, implementing policy programmes without reliable consultation and building dialogue with all social groups concerned. One of the consequences of this process is the growing imbalance in the relations between the state and the citizen, because the state constantly strengthens its position every day, assigns itself further prerogatives, and the citizen loses practically every year its ability to investigate and protect its rights, becomes more and more vulnerable to the legal and actual strength of the State. Moreover, sometimes there is a certain imbalance of State action in relation to some people. Sometimes the state acts extremely intensively, and sometimes it turns a blind eye to certain actions. And if we see strong cooperation between prosecutors, special services, public media, and sometimes, unfortunately, courts, then citizens' rights are at the end of the line. The choice and arbitrary application of the law, rather than the predictability of the application of the law, is one of the most important threats to the rights and freedoms of the individual, and political subjection of certain authorities can promote this selectivity and arbitrariness. This is my message, which I would like to convey, because I feel like I don't speak enough like this and I call things by name. Unfortunately, this is how I see it now in Poland and I do not deviate in my opinion, I think, from many people, from many authorities who similarly perceive the Polish reality. I would like to stress that, regardless of my assessment, I am constantly trying to work with other authorities of the state. But being here in the Senate, I have to signal that this cooperation is not always good. One of the Ombudsman's instruments of action is the possibility of making general speeches. But these responses to general speeches, despite the statutory provision, are not always coming. The information provided describes about 20 cases of non-response year-round or longer. In this context, I would like to point out one of the recent situations. We've been dealing with a violent situation with a judge in Rybnik. This is exactly the subject we've taken up, it's about the safety of the judges in the courts. Since March 2016, we have undertaken correspondence with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry has announced the preparation of the relevant bill, but later this project was not created. Then I asked about the state of work. I didn't get an answer, so I sent two more letters to the Minister of Justice. Finally in 2019 I asked the Prime Minister for help, because I would like an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Dworczyk, on behalf of the Prime Minister, has asked the Minister of Justice three times to prepare an answer, but this answer has not yet come. If we are to cooperate in this way, it will be really difficult to correct our reality, because there is a concrete suggestion of action, but there is no will at all of any cooperation. I would like to point out that all the time, until the end of my term, I will be committed to cooperating and suggesting what changes should be made, but also to the very end I will protest against these changes, which, in the short term, and which in the long term threaten civil rights and freedoms in Poland. I hope that the Senate, as the House of Reflection, will understand and share my assessment of the situation and will draw appropriate conclusions. I am, of course, at your disposal when it comes to answering questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u120	Thank you very much for your extensive report. I have a list of senators who have come forward to ask your spokesperson questions, so that I would ask you very much to remain. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thanking you for such extensive and competent information, to which I will address in the debate, in a later discussion, I would like to ask the Professor about the current matter. The Senate is in the process of adopting the state budget. We voted for an amendment that increases the Ombudsman's budget at the expense of the President's Office's budget. But if I could, I would ask you to tell me how the Ombudsman's budget was before, in the previous years, and in 2018 and earlier, and in previous years, so that the House, before taking a decision, would have information about these actual restrictions on the Ombudsman's budget. I would also ask for a few sentences about the growing responsibilities and resulting costs of the office's operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u122	Thank you very much. You're welcome... Right away, right? Okay. Maybe.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u123	I'll answer right away. Dear Senator, in fact, with the Ombudsman's budget for my entire term of office, there is a problem, a problem that manifests itself in the fact that every time a proposal is submitted... Maybe it's different. The draft budget submitted by the Ombudsman went to a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, then the Committee on Public Finance, after which it was, it could be said, cut to a level which gave more or less similar funding to this of previous years or even cut it off. In fact, for the entire term of office, we have not been able to obtain support for these tasks which are simply necessary for the proper performance of functions. These tasks include, first of all, the task of the Ombudsman's office to deal with the cancellation. The Ombudsman is one of the two bodies who have the right to file an appeal in cases which have ended in a judgment other than imprisonment, which makes us a bit of a pre-trial function. A lot of citizens are complaining, asking for a cancellation. We take these tasks very seriously, we analyze the files, but unfortunately there are just very much behind. I can only apologize to the citizens for this, but it's not because of our lack of determination, it's just because we don't have enough staff to take care of it. We have not once been able to overcome the increase in funds for this, even though there have been years when the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office was positive in this regard. The second such action is the functioning of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, an inhuman and degrading treatment. Please note that this is a very specific and specific area of activity, which means that people employed in the office of a spokesman who have a certain autonomy regularly visit all places of imprisonment in Poland: prison facilities, detention centres, social services houses, psychiatric hospitals, various educational centres for young people, detention centres for foreigners. These places are well over... depending on what classification they are, they can be counted from 1 000 200 to 1 thousand 700. We are able to visit 70 and 80 per year. How? We're supposed to provide prevention, how are we supposed to look at our hands if we don't have enough shots? We didn't get the money for that either. And there was a reason I was talking about this example from the Roar. This is exactly the example of a regular, daily monitoring in which we discovered the person who was beaten. Anyway, a police officer has a criminal case against him, and our associate recently testified in court on this case. Further tasks relate, for example, to the performance of tasks as a body for equality. We have a powerful limitation in terms of carrying out various social studies. And they're very important. Here, in the Senate forum, we discussed at one time, for example, the report on discrimination in the workplace on grounds of religion. This is one of the reports that we've been able to prepare. But in this respect, we do not have the resources for any greater promotional action to protect the rights and freedoms of the individual, especially since we, unlike the prosecution, did not, of course, receive any gold to exercise the competence to lodge an emergency complaint. So there's a problem here too. And one last thing. I do not know for what reasons every year the Ombudsman's office is the only institution distinguished from the entire budget The only one who doesn't even get money to raise their employees. It's something that's hard to understand. First, there are recommendations from the Minister of Finance sent in advance to take account of the 6% increase in salaries when preparing the budget, we insert it and then cut it and that's it. We are kept at the same wage level as before, but prices are rising and it would be appropriate to raise at least this level. So that there are such needs, these are current needs and their satisfaction is required for the functioning of the Ombudsman's office. I was also hoping that in connection with the draft of the last budget we could get an additional PLN 2.5 million for the creation of field offices of the spokesman in all voivodships. Because we have created a project to create such, you can say, three-person bulwarks of the Ombudsman's office, so that in every voivodeship it is possible to address the Ombudsman's office with various cases on a daily basis. We know that often various types of local law are of interest, and there are various problems with access to public information, with the transport of children with disabilities to schools, etc. There are a lot of problems that could be considered somewhere at local level. We counted that creating these 12 places would cost us PLN 2.5 million. But it didn't land well either. Meanwhile, what's interesting And I would also like to stress that. One of the inspirations that I agree with, which indicated that such regional offices were worth creating, was the result of the 2014 Law and Justice Programme. In the Law and Justice programme there was a request to create regional offices of the Ombudsman in each voivodship. So it's not just my idea, but I'd say I'm copying an idea that's already been presented in the political projects of the governing party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u124	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Spokesman, I'd like to ask you to... Because the report is, unfortunately, brief. I would like to ask you to say a few more words about the hate crimes we are dealing with in Poland. As we learn from the report, the number of these crimes is increasing. But that's not what's most disturbing. The most worrying thing is that we still receive the assurances of the authorities, including in the discussions of public politicians and in various kinds of speeches, there is such information that there are few such crimes. I was interested in the fact that in 2018 the State and the OSCE office conducted research in Poland, or in fact it was a research project which showed that in Poland only 5% hate crimes are revealed. I mean, it's about discrimination based on race, ethnic origin or nationality, religion, religion or belief. I would like to ask you a few words about these studies, because I think this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u126	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, in fact these studies are innovative. They can be found in the annual report in the article item. 32 constitutions, because these hate crimes and these issues have been described above all in the context of the prohibition of discrimination. And these are studies, which are based on a very specific and unusual methodology, a methodology, which even yesterday was the meeting of the Committee on National Minorities and Ethnic Minorities and we discussed about it and raised some doubts. This is the methodology of identifying 3 people from a given environment. In this research, these were the environments of people from Sub-Saharan Africa, Ukrainian citizens and Muslims. And these people are going through a very detailed survey where they have to answer whether they were victims of hate, and they are mentioned in various forms of hate, and then they have to identify people from their environment, any person with whom the same survey must be conducted. And then these other people go deeper, which is what happens on a principle. Snowball effect. The study is very advanced and is based on a methodology basically American, which allowed to reach out to people who traditionally are very difficult, you can say, caught in a research network using a traditional survey conducted by a traditional surveyor, because you have to reach out to environments that are a little hidden, or environments that we don't know exactly how they work, where they live, and you have to say, gain a certain level of trust. And what came out of this research is that many people who feel that they are victims of hate just didn't decide to take any action because of different reasons. Firstly, they did not want to reveal themselves, secondly, they did not have confidence in the authorities of the State, thirdly, the whole process of reporting such crimes seemed complicated and difficult to them, and it can be said that there was also a specific effect of getting used to the principle that it was better not to lean forward and to do so. From these studies, we found that, basically, the people who reported these crimes were about 5%. those who felt victims of hate. I would like to point out that, with regard to these various other measures relating to the fight against hate crimes, what is characteristic of recent years, is the increase in the number of physical acts of violence due to hatred. In recent years, perhaps there is less of this than in this summit, when we had the whole debate on the migration crisis, when, in fact, every few days the media reported such cases, I also tried to deal with these issues. However, no comprehensive changes have been made. These changes would have to be made at legislative level, i.e. there would have to be appropriate changes and identification of various hate crimes at criminal code level, including hate crimes on grounds of sexual orientation. I don't think he's ready to accept these changes right now. These are also changes concerning the cooperation of state authorities with social networks and the creation, you can say, of better contact points, the possibility of reaching these social networks. These are also educational changes, i.e. appropriate social policies and campaigns to combat hate speech; I think there is a great lack of action here. Finally, it is about not creating such a belief. And sometimes you get the feeling that this conviction is coming up. The fact that the perpetrators really need to be suspected of very serious actions in order for the state apparatus to work. For example, in this speech to the Attorney General, which I referred to in 2019, I pointed out 30 different cases which had been dismissed or had been conducted for a very long time. The answer I got from the D.A. wasn't satisfactory. However, often in those cases which are of interest to the public, there is such action, that first there is a very long process of prosecution, then there is remission, the victim or e.g. The Ombudsman complains to the court, the court condemns the assessment of the case made by the prosecution, and the case goes back to the prosecutor's office and goes on for years. In the report we describe e.g. the kind of thing that just gave us some satisfaction. It was a matter of using Nazi symbolism during the March of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers in Hajnówka in February 2018. Then the participants presented symbols of the Celtic cross, but also badges of the corpse head with tibia, Totenkopf, along with letters of the ŚWO, i.e. Death to the enemies of the Homeland. The case has been run for a long time by the D.A.'s office, and the D.A.'s office has dropped the case, and I, as the spokesperson, have sued the district court. The court in Hajnówka on 13 December 2018 took a very nice judgment into account the Ombudsman's complaint and returned the case to the prosecution. And what's interesting is, it's February 2020 and the D.A.'s office is still investigating this case, and it's still analyzing it. So that this is missing here, because there is a signal being sent, that in some cases, in some situations the perpetrators will avoid responsibility. Therefore, it is difficult in such situations to fight seriously against hate crimes, even the most obvious ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u129	Thank you very much. I have two questions, and my first question would be exactly like the one asked by Senator Rybicki. Therefore, I would just ask for an extension of the answer to this question. Namely, your office is at the moment one of the most important offices for the citizen of the Republic where the citizen can seek help in his or her affairs. In other offices he is unable or unable to, there is no opportunity and opportunity to demand and ask to take care of his affairs. Therefore, I ask: what should employment be like? How many people should the number of employees of your office increase so you can get out of all the troubles and troubles you've been talking about in terms of hiring and handling cases? It is both the time to consider and the number of cases. That's the first question. And as for the second question... You mentioned in your report that you were intervening from 2016 to 2019. At the time, there was a last intervention. You are looking forward to the implementation of the Court's judgment on the non-constitutional exclusion of the participation of the National Radio and Television Council from the procedure for the seat of public broadcasting companies. I'd like to ask if for now... The intervention, of course, had a basic deadline which expired in 2018, but I know that it was also in 2019. So, at the moment, as you write to the Marshal of the Senate, hasn't the Council of Ministers taken any position on the performance of its duties by the National Media Council, whose duties are constitutionally and legally entrusted to the National Radio and Television Council? The National Radio and Television Council was for no reason, simply excluded from this obligation. Have you finally received any response from the Council of Ministers? This is the first part of the question. The second part of this question is: was the promise of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to prepare the amendment of the Act by the end of 2018, or is there any information that this amendment will take place in the near future? I would like to point out that the matter of nominating the management of state radio and television, its organs, is a very important issue, because it has a great impact on what this television and what public radio we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u130	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, I would like to point out that it is difficult to identify such a target for the ideal number of the Ombudsman's staff. If we were, for example. They've considered the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, inhuman and degrading treatment... I think that if we were to statistically compare the size of our country and employment in such bodies in other Member States of the European Union or in democratic countries that have this kind of mechanism... I think it's cool with the ten jobs we have... We could hire 30 people and have something to do. They would simply visit not 80 places of imprisonment, but, say, 250 in a year and would certainly have a greater impact on the formation of a preventive culture, a culture in which violence is not used, or a culture in which the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment is not violated. So that it could easily be extended. If we thought about it, for example. Over this mechanism... Let's take an emergency complaint. As far as I'm concerned, the D.A.'s office has a whole new department working on an emergency complaint and an office. We need to deal with the Ombudsman through existing measures. It's obviously a problem, because it's an allowance for what we do. The same is true of the body for equal treatment. In Poland, years ago, such a principle was adopted that, since the European Union's anti-discrimination directives require the creation of such a body for equality, instead of creating a separate body, it will be transferred to the Ombudsman's office. But you might as well have imagined an independent body with a staff of 20 and 30 to deal with it comprehensively. As if we were wondering about the regional structure of the office, I assure you that if we created several offices in every voivodeship, it would also be peaceful to do something. I'm sure that citizens would benefit from it, because it's just that our country doesn't work as it should in many ways. A better coordination of our efforts could be ensured with the efforts of local lawyers, local chambers of legal counsel, local structures of power and, in this way, a culture of human rights could be said. So that's the point. That's how I would answer that question. A vision, a vision of state development, i.e. How we're gonna programme ourselves, how we're gonna work, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna program ourselves, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna program ourselves, how we're gonna do that, how we're gonna do that, how we're In Poland this has happened in recent years in this direction, that the Ombudsman, as I said, did not receive these funds, while in parallel they were created. new judicial institutions. But just so you don't misunderstand me. I think, for example. The appointment of a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises is not a bad idea in itself, I even supported this solution, but rather I said that if we create such an institution, it should have a certain level of independence from the executive authority, because then it has a stronger mandate to act. This is also an international trend. If we go to Britain, we'll see that there are so-called. public services ombudsman who deal with such issues. So is the financial spokesman... But since our constitution has identified the Ombudsman as a central constitutional body dealing with civil complaints and has granted the right to a complaint to the Ombudsman as one of the mechanisms for protecting rights and freedoms, this should be accompanied by an approach which provides for the provision of human resources suitable for the functions performed. And if we're talking about HR, let's remember this isn't just about jobs. It is also a matter of being employees who perform their duties in a fully professional manner and for many years cooperate with the Ombudsman's office. And in some teams, workers decide to leave, for example because of low wage competitiveness, even when compared to judicial institutions. If we compare the level of wages e.g. In the offices of the Supreme Court or NSA and the Ombudsman's office, it would appear that these are significantly lower salaries. If we were to compare the level of remuneration of NIK inspectors and employees of the Ombudsman's office, it would also appear that these are significantly lower salaries. So that's the aspect that could be discussed. However, in order to discuss this, we would need to implement this basic condition, namely to recognise that the Ombudsman's office is really important, it is important, and to focus on strengthening it in order to implement the article. 80 Constitution, providing the right to complain to the Ombudsman. Unfortunately, this condition has not been met in recent years. On the other hand, as regards the second point, the second question concerning the National Council of Radiophony and Television, I actually received at some point, as a result of numerous monits and writings, such assurance that a draft law is being prepared and this was provided by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage After that, this law did not arise. We are dealing with a situation that is quite interesting from a legal point of view, i.e. The kind that... Perhaps otherwise: not interesting, but unusual, because there is a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which is in force and which says that the formation of the National Media Council, which circumvents the powers of the National Radio and Television Council, even draws before parentheses certain tasks which are natural for the National Radio and Television Council, is incompatible with the constitution. This judgment has been published, this judgment is in force, and in principle it has been disregarded, it has never been executed. Moreover, the National Radio and Television Council itself does not specifically demand a change in this area, and the consequence is that the Article is not fully implemented. 54 constitutions. I stress: Article. The 54th Constitution speaks not only of freedom of speech but also of the right to obtain and disseminate information. Public media play an important role in the right of citizens to obtain information. If public media do not fulfil their role in this area, constitutional law is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u132	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to ask you to elaborate, because you mentioned in this report something that I personally, but not just me, many people in this Chamber. It's on the heart. It's about this famous 776, in short, what the Senate proposed in his previous term, and what he has now returned to, which is the issue of parental alienation. Why would I ask you to develop this? Because a lot of people, especially from mothers' organizations, are afraid of it. I'd like to ask you in a few words to tell me why this project is important, you need it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u134	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u135	I do not want to be very specific about printing 776 at this point, because I do not remember the precise provisions of this project. Well, I wouldn't want to be understood in such a way that I accept en passant everything that is in this project. Nevertheless, I would like to talk about a specific social problem. We have a growing number of divorces, we have separated parents, we have children who remain divided in relationships, and we have changing traditional roles in the family. And it seems to me that in all of this, the greatest social trend concerns the sense of real paternity, the sense of real paternity, and the fact that both parents' rights should be treated on an equal footing. So we have a social change now, but the legal system doesn't keep up with it. First of all, it doesn't keep up at the statutory level, e.g. in the field of transversal care, because although it creates a space for the courts to rule on transversal care, it can be said that it does not create it in a very hard and strong way. Secondly, we have a problem with the efficiency of the courts, because the courts in these cases have been ruling for a relatively long time, and each month, each week of prolonged judgment by the courts affects the sense of parental alienation. This concept of parental alienation is sometimes questioned, but it already appears regularly, even in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Court uses the term parental alienation. This is a situation in which, even if a parent wants to have a natural contact with a child, he is no longer able to establish a full relationship due to the passage of time, since the child is with the other parent. And now because of the insufficient... Moreover, as far as statutory changes are concerned, one of the demands that I presented to the Minister of Justice was unfortunately not taken up, and this was to create an institution of a lawyer or guardian for a child in the context of divorce proceedings. So the point is that, in the event of a dispute in court, not only the parents who argue with each other should benefit from the help of lawyers, legal counsels, but also that the child has his own representative who will take care of his interest in this proceeding. So you could say that the idea is to try such a child, so to speak, to take maximum out of such a typical dispute. But this request has not been met. Since we are talking about the efficiency of the courts, let us add that this is not only about the challenge of the length of proceedings, but also about the challenge of the functioning of opinion teams, specialists. In this case there are long queues and long procedures, and any waiting causes trouble. It seems to me that, due to these factors, there should be a legislative change here. And since there's been a lot of work done in the Senate in this direction, it seems to me that it would just be wrong to destroy it. And I think it's just, you know, in the world, you'd have to go back to it and work on it. Maybe this will solve some of the problems that arise. However, even the adoption of the best law will not exempt the Ministry of Justice and the Government from implementing the demand for family courts to act as effectively as possible, much more effectively than in a typical civil case than in a typical criminal case, because here really every month that passes has an impact on the fate of the whole family and on the fate of the child.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u137	Mr. Ombudsperson, I have two issues, a little related to the problem that families or divided families have. First of all, what's the statistics on family violence? Is it growing? You are presenting a report for 2018, but you probably already have knowledge of the year, or at least part of 2019. After these decisions and actions that were intended to limit this phenomenon, is this violence increasing, decreasing or maintaining at a similar level? That's the first thing. The second is a maintenance obligation. Following the tightening of the law to scare debtors, and after the initial period of increase in the maintenance obligation, there was a decrease. Don't you think we need to think about another way of prosecuting those debtors who don't pay alimony? These debts are particularly severe for families, and at the same time very difficult to pursue. They take jobs in black, change jobs, etc. Therefore, this prosecution is very difficult and largely ineffective. I don't know what statistics look like when it comes to the number of hiding or avoiding payments of alimony debtors, but I'm sure some unpaid maintenance debts are increasing. Do you not therefore think that more severe measures would have to be taken? But it's not legal action, it's economic action. I'm thinking about selling debt. I mean, if a woman agrees to sell a maintenance debt Let's assume a debt of PLN 1 000 for PLN 230 that he will receive. Shouldn't we introduce such a mechanism? $1,000 for 230? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u138	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u139	Dear Marshal, these are very important topics, but at the same time extremely complex. Maybe I'll start with maintenance. This government has just introduced, in my opinion, a very important change in the fight against alimony, which has caused alimony debtors to stop going to prison so massively. That's a revision of the criminal code. And it was a good change. Moreover, this was the introduction of a very interesting institution, which should be appreciated, namely the institution of an active regret. If you confess, if you go on a better path, we won't be chasing you for it, but only if you use this good path. And that significantly reduced the number of people in prisons. That's the first thing. The second thing that I thought was important and important was an immediate maintenance project. Why was he important? Because he referred in his idea a little to the idea of German, to the so-called. Dűsseldorf plates. I mean, in Germany, it's like you get alimony, you can say... You can choose to receive alimony without any precise calculation, how many times you have to go to tutoring, swimming pool etc. And how much it's spent on clothes. It is only determined how much a parent should receive child support from a second parent for such ordinary, daily educational needs. And that's what a special board is used for, which calculates it, given the general cost of raising children. And this idea of instant alimony was going in that direction to determine that, to create a mathematical pattern. One could say that the idea was that if a parent were to receive alimony in this mode, i.e. in very fast mode, it would largely eliminate the dispute that is between parents. Because please note that under our terms and conditions, if we do not resolve this dispute, the alimony dispute becomes one of many disputes. Because we have a dispute, first of all, about contacts or alternate care, second, about alimony, third, about distribution of assets, fourth, about guilt. Yes? If one of them were taken out, there'd be a little less disputes between those parents who are splitting up. So that I hope that maybe the government will come back to this idea, because he, in my opinion, wasn't bad. And when we're thinking about what to do with people who owe maintenance, I'd still... Of course, there are some people who are persistently, persistently not paying, but then the criminal code is applied, and that's why there's a criminal code to prosecute such people, and the appropriate rule in the criminal code has been made. But there is also a situation in which alimony debtors I know such people They haven't paid alimony for many years, for example. have been affected by alcohol disease. And here's the thing: they're coming out of alcoholism, they've already grown into debt, which is, let's say, 200 thousand zlotys, but they're getting back on their feet, they've found a legitimate job somewhere, they're starting to breathe normal air and live normal lives. However, all their earnings are taken from them by the bailiff, only a small part of it is left to them. As long as the bailiffs are good, there's still some way to deal with them, there's some way to break it down, but if we're going to trade this debt, I'm afraid... Well, it's different to get along with the bailiff, but it's different to get along with the debt company. I don't think it would be nice for these people. Why is this a problem? Because if there are such charges resulting from maintenance debt, then these people are resorting... to work on the black market. They'd rather go abroad or emigrate or work in black than pay. Well, if they have hidden income, then the bailiff can't get into their bank account. This is an undesirable situation due to the labour market and certain principles, you can say, social cohesion. I think we should rather think about how we can work off or pay back the maintenance debt, especially in situations where the burden of payment of alimony has been borne by the maintenance fund. I mean, if we don't get alimony, it's in certain situations. In my opinion, there are too few situations. Women or persons entitled to maintenance are entitled to receive benefits from the maintenance fund. I think that if you create some sort of social work system, for example. to the local government unit, to the budgetary establishments, to the State, as a rule, and in this way for years to write down how the maintenance debt is repaid... I think there'd be a pretty big group of people who'd like to take advantage of it. What's more, I'm dealing with this problem, mostly when I talk to people affected by the homeless crisis. They come out of homelessness, come out of all kinds of trouble, almost save their lives. They're restored to society, and then they get, you can say, a blow to the back on the basis that there's a problem behind them from the past. That's one thing. But there's another thing I'd like to say. Please note that alimony is calculated at a time when a person is fully capable of working, has a good salary, has a good job, for example he is a manager in a company, earns well, alimony is calculated positively. Then comes the crisis in life, for various reasons: dismissal, restructuring of jobs. And this person can work, but suddenly he makes two, three times less, and alimony is calculated, you can say, in previous times. Before the full maintenance adjustment procedure is carried out This is possible, in accordance with the rules It takes a year, a year and a half, and the debt goes up. Yes? And suddenly it turns out that this person, so to speak, lands in this new life with debts at the level of 50,000, 150 thousand zlotys and has trouble paying them back. There was a beautiful report on this subject in the Big Formation of Wyborcza Gazeta, which illustrated the situation of high-level managers who were in a good situation of life, and then there was a dramatic change, and suddenly life was not so easy. So I don't think we can... I think these are very complicated subjects. If I were to suggest where to start when it comes to alimony issues, I would certainly propose to consider how to convert maintenance debt into a duty to work for the State as a way of getting out of trouble. That's one thing. Secondly, I think that now the income threshold for maintenance fund benefits has risen a little bit, and now it's probably 1 thousand zlotys of income per person. This is, in my opinion, not enough, because basically you have to have a minimum wage or be unemployed to get this benefit. I'd modify that, too. I would also move towards more effective judicial action in matters relating to the correction of maintenance allowances. I do now. About domestic violence... This is a subject that is of great interest to the Ombudsman. We directed a lot of related speeches to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. There was a moment when the ministry came forward with its project, I remember that it was New Year's Eve 2018 and on 1 January was announced a bill on the fight against domestic violence, which aroused great controversy. The Ministry withdrew from this project, announced the work and then did not return to this work in principle. But there are a number of things to do, for example. definition of economic violence, definition and such a better approach to the subject of violence in the case of people who are close to each other, and who are not necessarily in a marriage relationship or in a partnership, e.g. violence against the elderly. The question arises as to whether this case from Zgierza is not just such a case. There is also a question of ensuring that the perpetrator is separated from the victim, because unfortunately in Polish reality it is usually the case that the victim has to leave the place of residence. Finally, there is a problem that also arises, i.e. non-implementation of the law on domestic violence in certain municipalities. The municipality, which is famous for this, is the municipality of Zakopane or the city of Zakopane, which consistently opposes the implementation of the law. Interestingly, in the case of the city of Zakopane, it is no longer just a matter of my interest as a spokesman, but even the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy himself threatens supervisory action against the city of Zakopane for the fact that the laws in this regard are not implemented. That's what it looks like. Luckily, these ideas to denounce the Istanbul Convention were not implemented in Poland. I protested against it. This is a very important piece of legislation, which can be said to stabilises our legal standards in this area, and in 2016, the Polish authorities announced that we would withdraw from this convention. There was even an appropriate project which was the subject of an inter-ministerial consultation, but we never really knew exactly what was planned and what was the justification for these changes. As far as statistics are concerned, you'll allow the marshal to send them in writing so that I don't make it up and look for it quickly. I'll just put them in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia Chybick. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to ask you if you have observed a greater influx of requests for intervention with regard to children in connection with the change in the position of the Ombudsman. As you know, the new spokesperson of the rights of the child presents a slightly different attitude than that of the child's physical punishments. Did your office actually register... This is difficult to find in this report because there are issues concerning children in different sectors. And that's the first question. Question two. There is a whole section in the report on health interventions. There's a patient's attorney. Why do you think these cases come to you? And are these cases where these interventions have proved effective? If you could get a little closer to what health issues children's parents or children themselves are turning to you at the age of a hundred... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u142	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u143	Dear Professor, Senator, of course this is a difficulty. I would not like to enter into a discussion here about the relationship with another constitutional authority and the performance of tasks by another constitutional body, because I think it will always be clumsy. Here's what I'm gonna say. I really appreciate the work of Mark Michalak's former child's attorney. At the end of the day, after finishing his term, I gave him the Ombudsman's Honorary Badge. You could say that it's art. 72 of the Constitution contains a specific summary of the speech I gave at the time, as regards the 10-year achievements of the child's Ombudsman Mark Michalak in the protection of the rights of the child. As for the ban, the absolute ban on child abuse, the ban on punishing children, there was indeed a dissonance in the public debate, connected with perhaps one interview given by Pawlak's spokesman. I have the impression that the Ombudsman later withdrew from this, and I don't think he continued with these expressed thoughts. Recently, I have been involved in an intervention concerning a textbook, in which there are various examples not particularly, I think, pointing to the implementation of this legal obligation to fight child beating ruthlessly, and I am conducting correspondence with the Baptist Church, who was the publisher of this textbook. I think the more we discuss this, the more we talk about why physical discipline and child-beating should not be allowed, the better it will affect public debate. I do now. These relationships between institutions are, I would say, sometimes a little complicated and incomprehensible, because we have a possibility of action which does not fall within the competence of the Ombudsman for the rights of the child. This is an opportunity related to the National Torture Prevention Mechanism and inhumane treatment. So that we have, for example. the possibility of visiting detention sites of minors, i.e. correction facilities, youth educational centres, shelters for minors, police child chambers. It can be said that the Ombudsman has a clear priority in this regard. Of course, there are some issues where I find it difficult to abstract myself from the events that are happening. We discuss issues such as: hate speech, online violence, patronage on the Internet. It's hard not to react. Besides, I have the impression that we have achieved quite a lot in the fight against pathologists on the Internet, which was also the result of complaints not so many children as parents, citizens who are concerned that such content is being viewed. So that this separation, which is the right of the child and what is the right of the parent, can sometimes be difficult. As far as I'm concerned... We were talking about alimony. On the one hand, we can look at this from the perspective of parents' rights and, on the other hand, from the perspective of children's rights. So is the right to have contact with two parents after a divorce. This is also a question that can be considered from these 2 perspectives. As far as the ombudsman is concerned, I'd say two things here. First of all, I speak with one voice with all the other spokespersons as regards the need for change in child psychiatry. I don't think there's any difference. One of the topics on which we have, I think, quite good cooperation with the spokesperson of patient rights, is the functioning of the regional medical incident committee. It raises doubts about the medical environment, raises doubts about how effective they are. And here are some demands on how they could be reformed. I think that this is quite similar with the spokesperson on patient rights, and he was in my office at various debates on this subject. So I'm gonna say yes. I'm trying. As far as possible and as much as the statutory and constitutional spaces allow And if we have a different view of certain matters, well, perhaps this is the charm of democracy, that even with regard to the interpretation of certain civil rights and freedoms, one can have a different approach.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u145	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor, one of the most dramatic passages of your presentation was information about surveillance. You said the services abuse their surveillance powers. Abuse of surveillance powers means not only that the law allows the services to monitor more than they need, but also that they go beyond those powers which the legislator has granted them. I am very interested in what matters you have learned on this subject, how many cases you have learned about the surveillance of citizens, how many cases, and if you might ask, in which cases you have been approached by citizens, with the feeling that they are being monitored. If you don't mind, I'd really like to know. How wide is this phenomenon? How much is this incident? Regardless of the scale of this phenomenon, surveillance is an unjustified offence, so I would also ask you to inform our House of the cases you consider to be cases of abuse of authority, unauthorised surveillance by the police and the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u146	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, this is a very difficult question. But why is it hard? Because we are dealing with the subject of surveillance primarily from the perspective of regulation and what they provide a guarantee. For years, we have indicated that, on the basis of the laws adopted in 2016, services have obtained excessive access, uncontrolled access to billing data or that e.g. have the possibility, in principle, of unlimited surveillance of aliens under the Anti-Terrorism Act. Nevertheless, I have no way of knowing how the services use these powers, as long as there is no leak, as long as we do not know that in any particular situation someone was particularly interested in the services, that, I do not know, some journalist has been checked phone records, the lawyer has been checked not only phone records, but also geolocation, that somewhere, so in quotes, a wiretap from a judge on the basis of untested information, I mean wiretapped in trial mode. These are the cases that we're basically only hearing about later, thanks to journalistic investigations, through trial files, through specific court cases. And then we can find out there's been a problem. But we don't have a situation where a citizen knows that. Because that is the nature of the service's work, that it is the services that know what and in what situations such data were used. There were such situations during the term of office, when we were explaining matters of surveillance concerning Polish citizens, there were cases about Richard Petru, if memory does not confuse me. Where there were doubts in this regard. That is why I am constantly trying to say that we should ensure that we create a mechanism so that it is not so that we wait until, after years, we find out that there has been abuse, only that there are authorities of the state empowered to verify every complaint from citizens, to call and question service officers who would have access to registers and information materials, computers in the service resources and thus control all kinds of charges. Well, let's take an example that's widely discussed and probably known, the Pegasus case. Well, we know that... all indications are that the Pegasus system has been purchased from the Justice Fund for the Central Anti-corruption Office. But is there currently an institution in Poland that would be able to control when it was used, by whom, for what, how? Well, there isn't, because that's the organ that never came up. What's more, it's the fault. not only those in charge in recent years, but in principle those in charge throughout the transition period, that such an independent control body of special services was not created. But since we're talking about this topic, of course, what has particularly upset me lately, because this is absolutely incomprehensible to me, is listening to the villa in Kazimierz Dolny, a matter widely known. When I saw the case, I realized one thing. Of course, sometimes I get acquainted with classified materials, but for that we have a secret firm in the Ombudsman's office, we have certificates, with Mr. Trociuk we sometimes make appointments, we sit in this secret firm, we review case files, including sometimes wiretaps. But in order to have this certificate, we had to undergo a full review at the ABW and we had to guarantee that we were those special people entitled to read these materials. My point is that wiretapping material is something that should just be protected like something extremely valuable and sensitive. And now all of a sudden, we go on a website and we read each other how it goes, without any restrictions, any citizen can read this information, including insanely detailed, sensitive information. We can create the best legal system, we can create the best laws, we can create the best secret firms, certificates, etc., but if one of the services just makes wiretap material public, that means it's some kind of mockery of the law. I have no doubt about it, that is simply to undermine the entire foundation of our criminal process, the right to privacy and the entire system of protecting classified information, if such sensitive materials are disclosed in such a way. Therefore, in this case I made a special statement, a rather comprehensive statement, unable to accept it. And I think it's worth remembering. Thank you very much. I share your opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u149	I have two questions for you. If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you the first, and then I'm gonna ask you the second question. Microphone. Mr. Ombudsman, my first question concerns a group of citizens of the Republic of Poland who are persons with disabilities. I'll give you three basic thesis. Microphone. With the power of the Polish partnership, as well as the international Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ratified by President Komorowski, you are, so to speak, a guardian of the implementation of this Convention. Hence the question of how you see the level of implementation of this convention. You are the person who carries out a report on the implementation of this convention in Poland, corresponds with the relevant agency of the United Nations, and also observes, I hope, the execution of orders that we have just received from various agencies. That is why I am asking you a very timely question, because the degree of implementation of this convention also depends on some of the funds from the European Union budget that we can obtain or cannot obtain. The second part of my first question concerns the matter of incapacity. Especially in recent years, the European Union's countries have made significant progress on this issue in practically the majority, unfortunately outside Poland. From this very original formula, which is still in force for us, from the 1930s in other countries of the European Union, the human rights of people who are not fully independent have managed to come out and move towards respect for civil rights. Hence the question about your attitude towards this issue, about your recommendations on the regulation of this issue concerning a group of Polish citizens who, unfortunately, are deprived of their civil rights, including electoral rights. Finally, the third, last part of the first question concerns the carers of disabled persons who, due to their duties, have to resign from employment and therefore receive some compensation from the Polish State. Unfortunately, in this respect, the situation of parents of children with disabilities and other family members who are also caring for an independent person is extremely different and therefore cannot take up employment. A few years ago, if I am not mistaken 7 and at least 6 years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that this imbalance should be eliminated. Unfortunately, still the rights of people who are citizens of the Republic of Poland regarding the execution of this decision are, in my opinion, not respected. And the question of your position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u150	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as I'm concerned, Maybe from the end. For the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014, this judgment should be enforced and I see no reason why it could not be enforced and the group of guardians is discriminated against under law. But it seems to me that what is particularly alarming in Poland is that, under normal circumstances, there would be some kind of responsibility, political responsibility, perhaps legal liability, for not making appropriate legal changes. In Poland we do not have the present, I have the impression, even the possibility to talk about it in this way. This is simply disregarding the applicable law, as well as all those who fall within the scope of this judgment. I can only be glad that some of these people choose to take a judicial path and through a judicial and administrative path receive this higher benefit. We've been helping out on some of these things. But it is not that this kind of practice will be impunity for the Polish authorities. I'll tell you what's gonna happen next. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is likely to be delivered in a moment. There's a complaint from a group of guardians who complain about it. The European Court of Human Rights is likely to issue the so-called "European Court of Human Rights" in this situation. a pilot judgment in which it will order the Polish authorities to set up an appropriate compensation mechanism and, moreover, this compensation mechanism will not only work in the future, but will also operate backwards and cover all... it will be able to cover all those who have been harmed in this way. I am able to imagine that in a year's time, in two years' time, we may meet in this House and we will discuss the judgment of the Strasbourg Court, which will have financial consequences for the Polish state of PLN 2.3 billion. I mean, if they accumulate for many years benefits that haven't been paid... Any such parent will be able to ask: why have I been for so many years, you can say, cheated by the Polish state for about 900 PLN, 1 thousand PLN per month? Because it's such a difference between benefits for those carers. When it multiplys over 12 months of the year and over the years in which it did not get, a great sum will suddenly come out of it. That's just the way it is, and that's why this kind of sentence needs to be executed quickly, because sooner or later we're all going to have to pay for it as taxpayers. Another case, incarceration. That's the problem... I remember such a moment very special when I was asleep. Prof. Radwański, the authority of civil law, at a conference organized by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers in 2013, at the end of this conference, said this: you convinced me, you need to change the institution of incapacity. It was a great thing that he said it, because the doctrine of civil law, you can say, acted within its own traditions, so that they didn't change something that actually works there. And since then, many organisations have been calling for changes in this area. The Ministry, which is leading here, is the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice for the past years I'm saying this based on the answers that came to me. It wasn't particularly interested, it wasn't, and I don't think it's a priority until today. It is about reforming the institution of incapacity and replacing it with a system of assisted decision-making. I'm counting on it to happen sooner or later. I would like to point out that when the protest of people with disabilities in the Sejm ended, a declaration was signed by those political groups that supported the protest of those people, and there was a request for the abolition of the institutions of incapacity. Maybe it's a job for the Senate to draft a bill, if the Ministry of Justice doesn't want to deal with it very much. I think there will be full support from the non-governmental community for such a project. What is more, we have the problem with impersonalisation that our constitution excludes people who are disenfranchised from the electoral group. This is a topic known at the level of case law of international courts, including the European Court of Human Rights. Such a leading issue in this area is the Lajos Kiss case against Hungary. Interestingly, Hungary has changed its constitution and it has been improved in Hungary by amending its constitution. And in Poland neither the institution of incapacity has been abolished or upgraded nor the constitution has been improved, so people who have been incapacitated from the vending machine are excluded from the possibility of participating in the elections. Moreover, the paradox is that our legislator, when making changes, also in the case of elections to the European Parliament, has excluded persons who are incapacitated, while the constitution does not specifically allow it. There was even one such case led by the Helsinki Foundation and the court, probably in Nowy Sącz, ordered that a person be added to the electoral register. But this was only possible in the context of the elections to the European Parliament. Of course, we can discuss this at the legal level, but it is really about restoring dignity to those who are incapacitated and respecting the role of the so-called. Self-lawyers. It is about appreciating that every person in his or her dignity and freedom should have State aid or help from those who help in decision-making, only in situations where it is necessary. It's more graphic. It is not a question of imposing on a person who may be subjected to an incapacitation regime, a large straitjacket in which she cannot do anything, but rather of sewing a corset that would fit to her and to the kind of disability that this person has. Third question, regarding the UN Convention. I think that ratification of the convention was one of the most important things for human rights in Poland in recent years. The Convention is important because it changes the way people with disabilities think about the rights of persons with disabilities, because it requires people with disabilities to think in the context of entities, the rights of persons to whom, it can be said, society, state and public entities are to adapt rather than vice versa. That's one thing. Secondly, it is about thinking about them not in terms of recipients, but of people who can enforce their rights in different areas of life. This whole philosophy of the convention is very important. I think that there has been some progress in Poland as regards the protection of rights. I spoke at the very beginning of my application for the Accessibility Act. This is an important thing. The Accessibility Act, the EU funds that follow it, as well as government resources to a certain extent, are important things. In general adjust thinking, adjust the whole functioning of the state in terms of accessibility for people with disabilities... The concept of availability cannot be associated only with physical accessibility. There is also the availability of communication or, for example, the availability of different media. I think it's something very, very important. As for impersonalisation, it is wrong, about access to the labour market, it is wrong, about the situation of carers, it is wrong, about individual groups that may be affected by various kinds of problems, too it is not good. As far as deinstitutionalisation is concerned, these processes could also do better. Senator Kwiatkowski devoted a lot of attention to this issue in the reports of the Supreme Chamber of Control, which signalled all these imperfections of the Polish state. I think it is important that we return to all the demands that were presented during the protest of adults with disabilities and their guardians in the Sejm. It was a breakthrough, but I don't think we really took advantage of the science that flowed from those days. I think what happened at the time, and what we discussed at the time, might be more important to solve the problems of people with disabilities. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura, one more question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, I am a Polish citizen with an ethnic Silesian identity, as are more than 800,000 other citizens of our country. For several years as a community, we have been seeking recognition and support from our country, but many initiatives, both civil and parliamentary, have not received recognition over these several years. I will also add that the issues of national, ethnic and linguistic minorities are primarily addressed by the Council of Europe. In practice, this is done in such a way that Member States are visited by expert groups. I remember several recommendations of these experts, indicating the necessity of dialogue between the Polish authorities and the Silesian group. This dialogue does not exist. I will say more on the basis of my own experience: he has been torpedoed for the next few years. However, the need for support, especially for what is most important for the Silesian identity, i.e. the Silesian language, for example in the area of regional language, is still strong and results in further initiatives, both social and parliamentary. Unfortunately, like I just said, it's not here. understanding, support or even a field of dialogue. As an ombudsman, how do you see this issue in the context of civil rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u154	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u155	Of course, this legal act, which we should all be interested in, is the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. This is a document adopted at Council of Europe level which specifies how to ensure the protection of languages that occur in specific regions of Poland, specific regions related to a specific culture and tradition. In the Ombudsman's office literally a few months ago, a conference was held, organized together with the Faculty of Arts Liberales, the University of Warsaw, which was devoted to it. In the Polish context, this discussion concerns basically 3 languages: Silesian, Wilamian and Kashubian. And the question is, to what extent should we be based solely on this protection, which arises from international agreements, and to what extent should we seek such greater legal and legal support. The issue of this support is so important that here, as I understand it, it is not only about supporting culture, but also about how much later it is possible to demand the enforcement of certain obligations from national authorities. I think that at this stage, especially since the bill appeared... I don't want to speak because I haven't read this bill recently presented in the world. I don't want to make such a conceptual statement, but I can promise you that as an office, we will read this project and give our opinion on it. I think it's my responsibility. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to express my very deep admiration for the speech given by your senator at Kazimierz Kutz's funeral in Silesian.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u157	Professor, I have two questions. One question concerns your wording from the information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. In this formulation, you are talking about your anxiety caused by the continuing inefficiency of mechanisms to prevent torture and degrading treatment. If I understand correctly, in your opinion there are mechanisms in Poland which could prevent such practices and which do not function. If that is the case, I would ask for information as to why, in your opinion, these mechanisms do not work. The second question concerns the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence. This principle is applied in a non-disputed manner in courts. But doesn't this rule also apply to the media, especially to public media, which, because they are state media, are basically doomed to strict compliance with the Constitution? And we know that they do not respect the Constitution, and they did not respect it in 2018, although 2020 is already a period of total escalation of non-compliance. As far as 2018 is concerned, it is enough to recall the case of President Paweł Adamowicz. Before the municipal elections, there was a total heyt to this person and you know what it ended with. I would ask for such information as to whether the subject of your institution's research is also the application of the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence by the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u158	My concern about situations that can be torture, inhumane and degrading treatment, as well as the prevention of these phenomena, is that we could completely calmly introduce various kinds of legal and practical solutions that could minimise the problem or eliminate this problem completely. Despite numerous general speeches, appeals and media interest in principle there is no significant change in this area. I'm going to say one thing, actually a few things, but I'm going to start with one that shows how it affects the safety of citizens. One of the demands arising from the Strasbourg caselaw, which also stem from human rights standards, including the Committee's recommendation against Torture, is to provide a lawyer, legal counsel to each person detained. And this is happening in Poland, ladies and gentlemen. In Poland, it is only provided that the person held in memory has a telephone number and is rich enough or is able to call the lawyer. No problem, then the police say, please, Counselor, please. Unless there's a situation where there's a situation of abuse and not letting a lawyer go, but these are very rare situations, they can, of course, cause a violation of the right of defence. So if we're keeping, I don't know, a person who's suspected of having a relationship with organized crime groups, she probably has a lawyer's number in her head, that lawyer is able to show up pretty soon, and that person at the precinct probably won't get hurt anymore. But if we have a person like Igor Stachowiak or if we have people like that. Masters collecting junk I once dealt with this case of 2 men from Lidzbark Warmiński who collected scrap metal. They don't have a lawyer's phone. What's more, even if they did, the lawyer would ask me a question: and for what, how much money do you have for me? And that would be a legitimate question, because we have not created a system of automatic provision of attorney and counsel to every person, whether she is rich or poor. This is the exclusion of poor people, marginalised, deprived of their access to legal assistance at this first stage. And this is the most sensitive stage, isn't it? That's why this stage needs to be fixed. Here I speak with one voice with a lawyer, with legal advisers and with international organizations, which for many years require Poland to do so. The second element is the widespread recording of police interventions. A pilot programme has been launched, but, as far as I know, it has not been extended to the whole of Poland. Meanwhile, this so-called one. The body camera, the camera installed on the uniform, has a guarantee function not only for the person who is being detained, but also for the policeman himself, who will not later be charged with abuse of rights against the person detained. This is something to be done. The third thing is the training of police officers, the appropriate recruitment to the police, the verification of persons who are recruited, in terms of possible vulnerability to abuse of the law in this regard. I think there's a lot to fix here, too. We also know that police are beginning to have staff shortages, and when staff shortages start, the threshold for admissions is lowered. So we might have a problem with that, too. And finally, one of the legal changes we have proposed is the introduction of a law into the criminal code that says that torture is forbidden. It's not that harassment and abuse are prohibited, it's that torture is prohibited. When we enter such a provision, we will be able to refer to the definitions that are set out in international documents, in the case law of the courts, to what these tortures are. That should be introduced, too. That's why I'm saying it's bothering me. There are so many things, and we're still at the same or similar stage. And I wouldn't be surprised if we found out about another Ryk case in a moment, another Igor Stachowiak case. We, of course, have much more of these cases. I was talking about those I considered important for this report. What we've done, and I think this is a good place... Imagine that there was such a period in the Polish Police that police officers used private means of direct coercion. Speaking of private, I mean, not with the police station, but with the ones that they bought out there in the corners, and then they used them for action. And there have been cases, we've had two of these cases, using private stun guns. Luckily, the chief of police issued a very hard, strong recommendation that there is an absolute ban on the use of private equipment. So that sometimes the change takes place at this lower level, it applies to such things even minor, detailed. The principle of presumption of innocence. The principle of presumption of innocence does not only apply to courts, but also to persons performing public functions. It's worth remembering that one of the louder things... In fact, there are two such important Strasbourg cases that dealt with the presumption of innocence. This is Dr. Garlicki's case, Garlicki's case against Poland. The Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, formulated a view which was subsequently found to violate the presumption of innocence. There was also an interesting case of Garycki against Poland. In fact, the court, considering the request to extend the temporary arrest, wrote something like this: there is no doubt that Mr. X has committed a crime. Well, as for the court, there's no doubt, and Mr. X hasn't yet been convicted, and the court is also violating the presumption of innocence in this regard. As for public media... I believe that public media are obliged to act in a spirit of respect for constitutional values, including values such as combating discrimination, equal treatment, pluralism, but also the principle of presumption of innocence; it seems to me to be a very interesting lead. Of course, the issue that I dealt with, and I dealt with it later in 2019, is the matter of examining the various circumstances connected with the death of Paul Adamowicz. At the same time, I was hoping that this aspect could be said, the participation of public media and some excessive interest It can be said that there was an excessive interest, because there were 1 thousand 800 materials per year The National Radio and Television Council will be interested in public media. To this end, I even met with President Kołodziejski, who said that he did not see the need for this monitoring. What we did in the office was we analyzed the various kinds of proceedings that went on with President Adamowicz and which were then illustrated or discussed on television, mainly on public television. At a recent conference organized on the anniversary of President Adamowicz's death, I presented such a mini-report on this subject, including. pointing out that many or most of these proceedings which took place against President Adamowicz and which were subsequently illustrated by the public media, were subsequently not confirmed in the facts, i.e. have been carried out Looks like it. It's purely instrumental. I stress: not all of them, but most of them, in order to be honest, it must be said that not all of them, because certain aspects concerning the submission of property claims could rightly have been of interest to the public, but certainly not all of these proceedings which took place and which then gave rise to a very concrete, strong picture on public television.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u159	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor, your term at this office, at least for me, will be associated with extreme ideology. Of course, that's my opinion, but I'll try to prove it so it doesn't look empty. You yourself in this report, in the information you admit to your commitment to confirming the citizenship of children with same-sex parents, to fighting for equality march in Lublin, to discuss what the Polish school could teach on rainbow Friday. The word "LGBT" appears 15 times in this report. Just? Yeah, that's it. Well, meetings, two meetings, conferences, three debates, one LGBT gala. And the word "Christian" occurs two times always in the constellation "Christian foundationism," which occurs near the chapter on hate speech. The question is: is this really the Polish reality, is this the reality, or is it just the one we see in your report? 'Cause, you know, like... The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is hard to conceive of ideological perversion, in its annual report, for 2018 - this is the same time - it speaks of 39 crimes committed out of hatred, but specifically hate the faithful Christian religion. Well, we've been watching this ourselves. The media made it public. It's about desecration, whether it's religious symbols or something. Holy Mass or the procession of God's Body in general: what Christians attach to their feelings and what is most precious to them. The question is: what is reality? Why didn't you argue for the rights of Christians, and you're so much in favour of the rights of LGBT? Does this have to do with reality, or do you create this reality? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u161	It wasn't a question for you. It was a question for your spokesperson. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u162	First of all, I have the impression that there is a logical contradiction in the senator's question, because I would not consider the collection of LGBT and the collection of Christians as mutually exclusive collections, and so a little stems from the senator's question. [[Applause]] In order to prove that these are not exclusive collections, I would like to remind you of the famous action organized by Let us convey to ourselves the sign of peace, which was intended to show that among those who attend the church, among Christians are the people of LGBT and those who continue to believe, even though, perhaps, their Church does not make it easier for them to continue to be full members of the Church. It seems to me that this was a very important action that showed that you could seek an agreement, you could seek cooperation. I would like to say that one of the actions that I have recently carried out is very interesting and I am very proud of this action. This is such a very in-depth analysis of what happened in Wrocław after the march of equality in 2018... I apologize, after the March of Independence in 2018, which caused many different not particularly good emotions, including those caused by former priest Jack Miedlar. We have conducted a very thorough study of why it is so that we do not understand why it is that it is growing, one can say, a lack of mutual understanding. And imagine, for example. In this report, one of the things that, in my opinion, are very fundamental and important is the saying, including by the left-wing environments, that, for example, the use of such a slogan as "Bob, hummus, Italian," may also be a hate speech in certain situations. So if we use this password not only and only somewhere in some publication, but in a specific social context, it can also be considered to be deserving, in a sense of security, in certain values that are important for believers. And imagine that after this examination, I still manage to conduct such a dialogue and organize meetings in Wrocław, where there are representatives from left to right, really. And we're talking about all this stuff over there. And I think one of the most important things I've done during my term of office is that those left and right trust me enough to want to be in the same room. As far as the charges are concerned... I, at the beginning of my speech, summoned Dr. Kochanowski for a reason. He really fought for the rights of LGBT people, it's not like he only said it at the beginning, and then he forgot. Mr Trociuk was a deputy spokesperson, and he himself remembers that the Ombudsman had been asking for such a simple thing as an identification document for transgender persons who were in the course of the gender correction procedure. Because when they met a cop, they actually had identification problems. And this is one of the cases that Kochanowski's spokesperson took. What year was that? Maybe 2008, which was 12 years ago. And it did not raise any doubts when Kochanowski spokesperson took these actions. Moreover, at that time there were regular marches of equality, which were not questioned in any way. What's more, I'm going to say this: if I can resent someone who's questioning the march of equality, then Now that we're talking about cities, I have great objections to Mr Krzysztof Zzuk from the Civic Platform because I am unable to understand the decision to ban marching in Lublin. I specifically went to Lublin to the courthouse to say that there can be no such bans. Then I was consistent with other cities. Rzeszów, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Nowy Sącz... There was another town, but then I missed it. I think it's one of the most important things here. It is about organizing assemblies in which we wish to express certain views. LGBT individuals and their rights are absolutely taken care of, and I am proud to take care of their rights, because these people have no one else in this country to protect them. They only have an ombudsman as someone who can protect their rights. And for the rest of my days, as a spokesman, I will continue to advocate the rights of LGBT people, such as those of the Constitution arising from EU law arising from international human rights standards. And referring to the fact that the spokesperson doesn't deal with Christians and Catholics... One of the reports, written and prepared, described in the report on the occasion of the article. 32... this is a report on equal treatment on account of a confession in employment. Here I quote: The critics feel both representatives of minority religions and representatives of the Catholic religion, which is in the vast majority of Poland. Many times. And I even attended a press conference that was organized by the Catholic Information Agency, and I was just talking about various issues concerning the image of religious feelings concerning the issues of this report, pointing out that if we are dealing with a secularized workplace, then most can also be discriminated against. E.g. If someone starts laughing: and, you're so saintly... or when someone starts mocking somebody's religious practices because they don't like something because they're so secularized. This is also a problem in Poland, which I mentioned in the report, and this report is mentioned here. As regards acts of violence, on page 164, on the occasion of matters relating to Article. 53, is the mentioned story of the desecration of the chapel in Opole. For whether a synagogue or a chapel is profaned, it does not matter to me at all, because neither one religious object nor the other should be profaned. And there's absolutely no my permission to do that. Since you ask me if I liked what happened during the equality march in Gdansk, I answer: I did not like making it, you can say, a specific copy of the procession. It was neither necessary nor wise. This was unnecessary from the point of view of the public debate. It provoked only bad emotions. And already what happened to the dummy reflecting the figure of Archbishop Jędraszewski was an absolute scandal. I immediately made a statement on this subject because we cannot fight for civil rights and freedoms, for non-discrimination, for respect, and at the same time allow such phenomena to exist somewhere in public space. And I'm glad that you'll notice ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ Against Homophobia and Lambda Warsaw also immediately against what we are talking about protested. Somewhere out there, you can see there's this one activist who seems to have gotten too into his part. So that I am absolutely in favour of building our Republic on mutual respect, mutual understanding, dialogue, but not discrimination and not exclusion. Unfortunately, I believe that in Poland in recent years it is mostly LGBT people who have trouble and that they are the subject of various actions by public authorities, actions which result in exclusion. And I am terribly sad when I see it when I read about it and sometimes I see that unfortunately for many of these people the only alternative is simply emigration from Poland. And they're totally serious either taking action or they're doing it. What's more, now that I'm talking about it. Some of the organizations I'm meeting are the organizations of parents of LGBT people. There are two such organizations in Poland. And they say this: Mr. Ombudsman, we do this because we love our children, we fight for their rights. But you know, Mr. Ombudsman, most of our children are already living in Berlin, London, the United States, because here they were unable to fully realize their lives. This is the reality of LGBT people in Poland. And I'm here to claim their rights. You can call me in different ways, you can classify me in different ways, but I will absolutely not give up on what I believe in. Because I believe that the protection of the rights of LGBT people results from a sense of respect for their dignity, from the prohibition of discrimination and from their right to respect for their private and family life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u163	Mr. Senator... If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Can I ask you a question? Excuse me? Can I ask you a question? One sentence. There you go. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u164	Professor, I was talking about breaking some symmetry and at least not appearing in the public opinion, in the wider sphere of your speech in the defense of Christians, in a situation where their symbols, their religious feelings, are simply insulted by their religion. And as for the LGBT issues, I leave this to you, just to remind you that you have joined in the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. In the so-called. The printer case, the case against the person who refused to perform the service because of his religious views... Good. I have to refer to that. If I may...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u165	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u166	Mr. Senator, because the effect... notice that I said that last time in the Senate... Of course, it's about this famous art. 138 misdemeanor codes. Please note that we in the Ombudsman's office took various cases concerning refusal of access to services which are publicly offered, not only in the context of LGBT persons, but also in the context of persons who were not served by the transport company, because the blind person was assisted by a guide dog, or for example. in the context of a girl in a wheelchair who wasn't served in a shoe store. These were also cases that we reported to the police under Art. 138 misdemeanor codes. The result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court is that we do not have this article at all. 138 in Polish law. So even a person in a wheelchair who's gonna treat himself badly in a store or even, I don't know, a PiS supporter who's gonna refuse to rent a hotel room, they're not gonna have a recipe to complain about either. And there was this thing, and there was this debate that some hotel owner started putting up some kind of idiotic banners. If we have public services that are publicly offered, services to which every consumer has access, we cannot use criteria which are simply discriminatory criteria in terms of access to these services. That was the point of art. 138, that was the point of the intervention I took. After the judgment of the Constitutional Court, we have no such provision at all. In fact, we should have a debate about finally adopting a proper anti-discrimination law in Poland. Unfortunately, we do not have such a debate either. At the end of my term of office I will try to prepare a project, such as, you can say, assumptions for such a bill. Now with a group of experts from my office and external experts, we are working on such a bill because in every decent democracy such a law is in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, against the background of your statements and other questions, my question may seem very trivial, but I would like to refer to the digression you have made by presenting your report on the article. 82 constitutions and the duty of a citizen to be faithful to the common good. And it's a common good for me, too. I think you're referring to this. The good of the environment, the good of the environment. At the same time, you suggested that Parliament should also inform the public about the need to take care of this environment. And I have this question: are environmental regulations, in your sense, guaranteeing its quality and our sense of community with this environment, effective? Because I often get such information that environmental law is being ignored, and judgments, as regards penalties, tend to be reduced to some minor fees, criminal charges. However, it is often suggested that it should be more important to repair the damage. I understand, of course, that we cannot respond to the judgment of the court, but I wonder if you have such a feeling that certain regulations should be strengthened so that they protect the environment more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u169	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u170	I pointed to the art. 86 constitutions, because I have the impression that very rarely in Poland we discuss the obligations that arise from the constitution. Well, let's see: there is no military service in principle, because this service is professional; as for the obligation to observe the law, we all know that we must respect the law and pay taxes; fidelity of the Republic of Poland is a very, you can say, general value. So I thought that since the Constitution was very clear about the citizens' obligation to take care of the state of the environment and to be responsible for its deterioration, it would be useful not to talk about it through the prism of existing regulations which are punitive or have administrative responsibility, but from a point of view that allows us to reflect on what the moral content of this obligation is, what it really means for us as the Republic of Poland, as a country which must shape the conditions for sustainable development, and what it means in the context of the fact that we must pass on our country to future generations. I mean, it's art. 74 states that public authorities are pursuing a policy that ensures environmental security for today's and future generations. It seems to me that if we do not treat this provision only in such categories that the legislator has passed further laws which provide for different types of sanctions, we have only considered what each of us can give to this environment and how this duty of care is to be implemented, it could be important for the public debate, all the more so now that it is a matter of discussion on climate change, from which we will not escape. In Warsaw this year, as I recall, there was not one cold day. Right? It's hard to get a better statement of climate change, because it's something that each of us is experiencing. That's why I think the Senate is an institution that's fit for this. It is asked not to think about the normative content, but it is about the moral content that results from it. That's why it's my little request. We should carry out some of these duties, not just assume that we all know them and respect them. It's up to us what citizens think about these duties. As regards regulation, it is, of course, a problem with compliance on several occasions and the fact that they are not enforced. I think it's a consequence. not so much bad rules as, above all, poor organisation of the state apparatus. Please note that if we are dealing with e.g. with the arson of landfills, this requires the activities of local self-government units involved, sometimes even special services, prosecutors' offices and environmental inspections. We don't have one in Poland. It'd be useful if we didn't. Some kind of environmental police. Right? We should treat crimes against the environment as much as we would treat crimes, I don't know, organized crime groups, we should really watch these cases and enforce the law. Moreover, the rules that have been made, because of their difficulty and because of their lack of adjustment, can be said to be a conscious society, facing a whole range of difficulties. Today, before I came here, the Ombudsman's office held a large conference on waste management. At one table were representatives of housing cooperatives, waste industry, the Ministry of Climate and NIK. Senator Sekuła was also with us for a while. The level of emotion, the level of sensitivity in terms of the dangers involved in the bill was extremely high. People are just afraid that they won't be able to afford it and how collective responsibility mechanisms will work. So there's a difficulty here. We are trying to change the social reality through the rules, and I am trying to say that social reality can also be changed by reaching for the article. 86 constitutions. If I were to think about something and advise something so directly, it would seem to me that it would be the creation of a strong environmental police with a good camera, good funding. This is something that could really help, because I think execution is the most important problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u171	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u172	Minister, I listen carefully to your report, just as I did at the committee meeting. I ran out of conclusions there, and I ran out of conclusions here too, so I'd like to ask you what it is. Judging by what you have presented, one might ask whether Poland is a country in which human and citizen rights are respected, to say that it is not. From your speech comes a picture painted in dark colors, deserving of regret, deserving of condemnation and deserving of compassion towards all the victims, our citizens, whose rights are not respected. I'd like to ask if, in your conclusion... Is Poland a state of law, a state in which citizens' rights are respected, in which there are institutions which respect these rights, in which there are legal instruments at the disposal of citizens, so that they can defend their affairs, including instruments such as spokespersons, ombudsman and others? Or the other way around? Is it that this dark painting you have painted, it is like the dominant information, the dominant image of Poland as a country in which the rule of law does not exist, and the rights of the citizen are largely unrespected? Is there one good area, such a spark of hope? Maybe some progress has been made in the field of human rights protection? What's it like? How would you conclude that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u173	Mr. Marshal, we actually had a discussion about this at committee level, but I would like to remind you that at least a few times during my speech I pointed to things that could be repaired or... Well, that's a conclusion. Good. Just a minute, okay? For example, I pointed out that the development of adult psychiatry is in the right direction. I was talking about the subject of alimony, about the change here. I was talking about compensation issues for people who were being repressed for their activities in favour of the independent existence of the Polish state. I am pleased that after a lot of hard work, we have managed to solve the problem of compensation for people who have run out of insurance money from the Insurance Guarantee Fund. Conclusion. On page 12 of this document that I have... I can read it again. I said we have two important trials that dominated our present day. I said: the first process has many positive aspects, it involves economic development and concerns changes in the material and social situation of entire social groups, including in labour law; I have no doubt that this process has a positive effect on the implementation of many civil rights. I was talking about reducing unemployment, about constant economic growth, about how it translates into the quality of everyday life of citizens. I was talking about an increased sense of social egalitarianism and about getting out of the poverty crisis of some social groups. It's absolutely positive, I mean... At the committee meeting, I also said that some of the social programmes implemented by the government had positive effects. I don't think anyone's even questioning them right now, and they're not questioning them. However, I also said that when it comes to the implementation of certain rights, including social rights, it is not good. The whole health debate shows that, despite the transfer of substantial funds, there is a problem with health protection. It can be said that the lack of mutual trust between the various stakeholders, the lack of some long-term vision and systemic problems in certain areas make the right to health care not exercised. We're also having trouble with the right to education. After all, the Polish Towns Association would not write such an appeal if local governments had sufficient resources to provide adequate quality education. Social security is also a problem that needs to be solved, for example in this House. That's for example. the issue of the 1953 Yearbook or the case of the Repressive Law of December 2016, which unfortunately will not be resolved legally. Our problem is that what is happening in Poland, we cannot evaluate at zero-one level, say it is either yes or yes. I am here to show above all what does not work, what needs to be repaired, is where more activity from the state is needed. This is my constitutional role because, as a spokesman, I am the body of protection and control of the law. This is how the Constitution defines the role of ombudsman. And since I understand my constitutional role in this way, when I inform about the state of compliance, I inform about those situations that require concern, they require greater commitment, and those that are particularly worrying to me. What I have also said, and what is particularly worrying me, is an increasing threat to rights and freedoms arising from the imbalance of legal protection, the fact that the activities of some institutions are not conducive to the protection of rights, but that cannot be treated in a zero-one way either. I sometimes refer to various international methodologies in my speech. And, for example, from the point of view of the rule of law 'Cause this is, I think, the most interesting topic of all. The methodology I respect and know pretty well is the methodology used by an organization called the World Justice Project. It analyses the rule of law in more than 100 countries. Our problem is that we are gradually falling in these rankings. Maybe we're not at the level yet. Hungary, maybe we are not yet at the level of other countries we may have doubts about As far as their rule of law is concerned, we're still falling. Unfortunately, the legislative changes that are being carried out, including very concrete actions towards individuals, to specific judges, do not give me any optimism as to the future of an independent judiciary and our place in the rankings of the rule of law. But this is a process, it's not like you can say something zero-only here, because at level 0 In the case of Poland, we simply have to take into account all shades of gray. And in these shades of gray Poland simply moves towards gray rather than white, so I would describe it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u175	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, I would first of all like to thank you and all the Ombudsman's staff for their commitment and very decent work despite low wages, and also to express their indignation at ministers who do not respond to your interventions, especially since these are interventions concerning citizens, so this arrogance is really directed towards citizens. You said that institutional systems are needed to protect civil rights. Our debate shows that not just the systems, but also the people who run these systems. I would like to ask you what are the most important criteria to call responsible and reliable persons to the various institutions. In my second question, I would like to refer to the question that you have asked Senator Klich regarding surveillance, especially since the surveillance of citizens is increasing and threatening the security of our citizens. You said that there is not enough law that would be safe for our citizens. I would like you to tell me what direction this law should be changed. You've already mentioned that there's a lack of an institution to control the Secret Service, but I don't think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u176	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u177	I think that the most important criteria for calling people to different positions are simply substantive criteria based on qualifications that result not only from the diplomas they have, but also from experience that should indicate that these people are prepared to perform the functions they are called to. It seems to me that if we looked at different kinds of democratic systems, we would see that there is no other solution: qualifications, experience, education. This should probably all be confirmed by various professional achievements. This is, I think, the role, also if we are dealing with elections made by Parliament, i.e. to make this choice through an appropriate analysis of the CVs of the relevant persons, as well as by monitoring these electoral processes by non-governmental organisations, because such good practices in Poland have been, and by making as responsible a decision as possible that a given authority is entrusted. Later, the only accountability mechanism is really the same as that provided for by the relevant laws or by the constitution. As for the second question, I'm going to say a lot of things. It's gotta change. The establishment of this independent body is, I think, the first step. The second point is that we need to consider the various guarantees related to whether individual secrets are sufficiently protected, especially attorney-client secrecy or journalistic secrecy, in the context of surveillance threats. Surely we should abolish the provision which allows us to use the so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree, or art. 168 of the Code criminal proceedings, as this provision allows the use of evidence which has been obtained illegally. It can be said that the fact that evidence is useful is sufficient to be used in the trial, regardless of how it was obtained. It's a recipe, I'd say, criminal, because in that situation, the service doesn't even have to worry about whether or not they're gonna get wiretapped by law, since they can still use it later, because these wiretaps point to specific circumstances. It also seems to me that it would be very important to define what the operations of operational control could involve at one time Minister Biernacki was very much involved in this. And if we go in such a direction that we do not specify which exploratory activities may be undertaken in the framework of operational control, at least we should create a system in which the services would be properly supervised. It could also be considered to create such internal institutions within the different services that ensure that procedures are followed. One of such demands, which will have to be implemented in Poland in the near future, whether we want it or not, is the request to introduce the so-called institutions into the various institutions. Signalers. Why do I say we're gonna have to implement this? I recommend to the Senate an interest in the Directive on the protection of whistleblowers, which was adopted at the end of last year. She's so extensive that... let me put it this way: the GDPR on this directive is really kindergarten. We will have to plow our legal system really hard to put in place proper protection for whistleblowers addressed to various authorities and contractors of private entities. Finally, it is also very important whether the judge to whom service officers come, when applying for operational control or wiretapping, has sufficient space to make such a check. It doesn't require that much legal change. Me, for example. I would think that since there are delegations of services, there could be a decentralisation of district courts which will recognise applications for operational control and wiretapping. Today, all of this goes to the Warsaw court, which has very small staff, too small to deal with, not to mention material conditions. All I'm talking about is the work of an expert group that I coordinated in the Ombudsman's office. This group... the report that illustrates all these changes, we've titled, I'd say, quite unusually, this title is: Saddle the pegaza. It's kind of what we're trying to do to tame what's uncontrollable right now. So that perhaps at the meeting of one of the Senate committees, I think that the Legislative Commission would probably be the most appropriate here, we could discuss this report together with experts. I think it would not hurt the public debate, because this debate must continue and must be of public interest. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u178	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u179	Mr. Spokesman, Professor, I am joining my predecessor's words and thank you very much for what you are doing. I do not hide that, even before this office was established, and later, when it was in operation, I did not realize how many important matters on behalf of citizens could be handled by the Ombudsman. Honestly, I'm a big fan of yours and congratulations. What you're doing... I say this as a partyless, independent person, so talking about some politicisation in defence of the interests of Poles here is a total misunderstanding. You're on the side of people who need help. But my question goes to that... is temporary arrests, which is abuse of temporary detention. I call it mining arrest. Is that a system problem? Well, what happened After 2015, it's scary. The number of arrests has increased dramatically, avalanchely. I've even wondered if the increase in arrests can't be linked, for example. with economic development. In the previous debate, we have heard that we owe everything to one party since 2015. Well, can this tie up the arrests, too? I'm sure you know that. You know the data. That since 2015, the number of arrests has virtually doubled, while at the same time the number of persons who are being punished has decreased since the judgment of the court. So, out of 3,000 198 inmates today... Excuse me, at the end of October 2019 there were 8,000 617 prisoners in custody. There is no doubt that this preventive measure is being abused and I would like to quote here some justification of the court... Mr. Senator, but I would ask very much. I don't speak, but I remind you, these questions are theoretically a minute. So I'd really like to ask... Okay, but have I crossed a minute? Mr. Spokesman's been standing here for hours. Good. Relax, I can... So I would ask for a short answer, but I will still quote a passage from the court's justification and I would like you to comment on it. It's part of the question. It should be noted that, at the stage of the application of preventive measures, it is not necessary to determine the likelihood of a criminal offence being committed by the suspect concerned to the extent that it would lead to that offence being attributed to him in the judgment. Therefore, it is not necessary to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the evidence gathered and it is sufficient that the evidence collected allows the existence of a high probability of the suspected person committing the alleged crimes, etc. So we have a laconic justification for the court and a man in custody. That's right, it's about that sentence. He has been staying for 5 months on the basis of the likelihood of committing a crime. What do you think? Is this preventive measure really abused in Poland? And why is that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u180	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u181	Thank you very much. You could say that you could write the history of the Polish transformation, analyzing cases of arrests. We had a period when there were actually a lot of arrest cases, and the arrest was almost automatic. I think the courts are all respectful of the courts. They were not oversensitive when it came to examining whether such a reliable examination of arrest applications and the extension of arrests. Moreover, these cases were then brought to the European Court of Human Rights, which ended in some even criminal judgments, criminal from the point of view of the scale of the assessment, the number of these judgments and, it can be said, the level of condemnation of the Polish courts in this respect. I will not forget the case in which the sentence is considered to be so-called. a quasi-pilot sentence, i.e. one that shows a systemic problem, is a Kauchor case against Poland. Mr. Kauchor, the Dear Senators, has been in custody for 7 years and 2 months and hasn't even had a judgment of the court of first instance, because the judges have changed because the sick, one has retired, and he has been sitting, sitting, sitting and waiting all the time. Happily, after these difficult years, repairs were made. Minister Kwiatkowski, I have the impression, had his part in repairing Polish reality when it comes to detention. The code rules have been improved, the access of defenders to the file has been improved, which was important from the point of view of verification. The courts learned to use detentions a little better, they began to use property guarantees more often, sometimes personal guarantees. The courts less often, you might say, did copy-paste in arrest orders, more often examined the premises, such as the actual fear of escape, the fear of motherhood or influence on other witnesses. You could say that we've begun to master reality. And the fact that we started to master reality started to translate into statistics. I remember when I became a spokesperson. Previously, I was at the Helsinki Foundation. Of course, we had cases in custody, but they were rather singular and symbolic. The Maciej Dobrowolski case was such a good example. He was in custody for three and a half years. This is the famous case, it's the famous Legion fan Warsaw. I remember that at the very beginning of my term, I even intervened, and interestingly so, along with Minister Marcin Warchoł, who was still working in the Ombudsman's office. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have some peace in the courtroom? When we look at the statistics, we'll see that it looks like this. In 2014, 6,000 238 arrests at the end of the year, in 2015, 4,000 162 and later, in 2016, 5,000 396, in 2017 7,000 239, in 2018, 7 000 360 and at the end of January 2020 8 000 353. When we compare 2015 and 2020, we'll see that there's twice as much. That proportion between people... And the number of people deprived of liberty has not changed on the basis of penalties. So we've doubled our statistics. Why is this happening? There's a good record study done by the Court Watch Foundation. They recently presented and alarmed that there was a double increase. There are also studies of the Helsinki Foundation, which concern this. I'd say that's a two-factor plexus. The first factor is that the legislative changes that have been introduced have allowed for detention only and only because of the high penalty, in relation to certain acts, even without the need to indicate other grounds. As it was accepted, we criticized it. Unfortunately, there was no more reflection on this, and I think it caused this increase. That's one thing. Secondly, in my opinion, this is the result of pressure on the courts. If the judge has a prosecutor on the other side who's asking for custody and this prosecutor can have an indirect, informal impact on those who have an impact on the judge's career The prosecutor may have such influence either through disciplinary action or through the Presidents of the courts. Unfortunately, this judge is under pressure. He's losing a citizen. I suspect, in many cases, the judges agree to arrest for the sake of peace. And the DA says, look, it's not our fault, because the court has agreed. This increase in statistics is an example of what this change is all about. Combining the role of Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General, a gigantic influence on the functioning of the courts through the Presidents of the courts, the Disciplinary Advocates, who are appointed individually by the Minister of Justice All of this must have consequences. What's more, they've been there, if my memory doesn't confuse me... There was a situation when disciplinary action was initiated against judges who refused to apply the arrest. It was a matter with the police. These kind of cases have so-called cases. The freezing effect, because all the other judges see it happening. After all, Judge Alicja Czubieniak had a case for release from human arrest because she considered that in his case human rights standards had not been fulfilled because he had not been granted the right to defend himself at the stage of the detention. And for that, she had a disciplinary matter for the content of the ruling. This reached the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. This is, in my opinion, the consequence of the pressure on the judiciary. To be honest, I am not saying that earlier the courts, especially the courts of the second instance, were so exemplary. I think the courts didn't appreciate human freedom enough. After all these circumstances intertwined, unfortunately, we have this kind of growth that is detrimental to the protection of individual rights and freedoms. Thank you very much for your kind words.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u182	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u183	Mr. Spokesman, thank you very much for this material. In the case of very many issues, it is a mine of knowledge, and it certainly illustrates the hard work you and the office are doing. But there is one passage here that has aroused my particular interest in the context of some of the challenges that we are about to face. This is part of the fight against epidemic diseases, specifically the statistics you presented. In the document we were able to get acquainted with, we read that between 2006 and 2010, the number of uninsulated children was around 4 000, and in 2016 these are the latest figures. More than 23,000. The level of immunity to measles has fallen below 90%, and the level that gives us a sense of safety does not allow the disease to spread is 95%. Hence two questions. First, what is your diagnosis of the low efficiency of public administration when it comes to enforcing the obligation under Art. 68 constitutions, i.e. the one that imposes an obligation on public authorities to combat epidemic diseases? Of course, we are talking about mandatory vaccinations in Poland and certain tools that the public administration has to enforce the law. And second question. I am curious to see your view in the context of decisions that some authorities of local government make introducing preferences for children vaccinated at school to public educational institutions, i.e. kindergartens and nursery schools. This triggers a lively legal discussion. I'm curious about your view of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u184	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u185	I have no doubt that the change that has taken place in terms of the increase in the number of children not vaccinated 10 years ago it was 4,000 when it came to measles, and now it's 23,000 years ago, this is the result of the anti-vaccine movement, this public discussion, which says that vaccines are supposedly bad, leads to complications. The result of this... Moreover, I think there is a bit of a tendency from politicians to wink at the representatives of this movement, which confirms their conviction that they are right. And when, for example, We're all dreaming of having a vaccine. Right? So that's the paradox that's going on. Such movements develop in this space or at a time when we do not see a direct threat, and when there is a direct threat, then we probably begin to appreciate, we find out why there is science, why there is expert knowledge, why there are scientific discoveries, and why someone wise once came up with it to introduce mandatory vaccinations. So that it seems to me that, as if the penetration into the public debate of these anti-vaccine tendencies, the introduction of vaccines as a threat to the safety of children resulted in an increase, this increase visible in statistics. Therefore, it can be said that I have decided to intervene and to support some of the chief health inspector, who so a little bit I had this impression sometimes left alone on the stage with this problem. As far as the second issue of kindergarten is concerned, I would be in favour of, as a rule, and it is a bit difficult for me to protest against this trend, but recently we have formulated a general speech and indicated that a statutory standard would be needed in this direction. This is a problem. This change, which is, however, discriminatory or non-discriminatory, without a statutory standard, may not defend itself. So that we operate a little in such a space that somewhere socially we all feel that this is the right direction, and at the same time we lack the courage to make a statutory change. Unfortunately, such courage must be gained and such a statutory change must be carried out, because at some point there will be a situation where there will be a parent whose child will not be admitted to kindergarten, he will not score enough points, he will go to the administrative court and for the administrative court it will be a piece of cake so that such a decision will not be lifted, including potential liability. So that the statutory standard, in my opinion, would be useful here, and I will be the first to support such a statutory standard, will support it to be introduced. Perhaps this will result in greater reflection as regards the implementation of this obligation, also arising from the Constitution, of the Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four constitutions. Thank you. Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u186	But very briefly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u187	Should the Ombudsman possibly have a proposal for legislative changes in this area... Now, whether we like it or not, for example, because of the risk of the coronavirus, this is a good time to present such a legislative initiative in the near future. A declaration of cooperation shall be indicated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u188	If the senators want to impose public responsibility on the Ombudsman for such an initiative, I can probably do so, but there is nothing to prevent each of the senators from preparing such legislative proposals, especially with such experience as the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, is this a formal motion... Senator Ujazdowski. Formal conclusion. I have a proposal for you to sit down. No, it's okay. Well, I'm already here... Sit... Thank you very much. It would be very good to find a chair like this here and have your spokesperson sit down. But in the chair. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Ujazdowski, please. And please make the question very briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u190	I would like to thank you very much for your activity and also for reminding you of this report on discrimination against people expressing religious views in workplaces, because this is an important problem in Poland and Europe. You took care of it, even though it's far from politics. Government agents weren't paying attention. I want to ask you something that has come to the public about the death of Igor Stachowiak. We have here the issue of criminal liability, and this is one aspect, and the other is to learn lessons from this case. Yes? There was an interrogation in the wrong place, using private means, private stunners. It was clear that police officers were not trained to solve this type of situation, and it was also clear that this was not the first such case. So I would like to ask you if, in your opinion, government agendas have drawn systemic consequences from this so as to reduce the risk of such a dramatic abuse as death at the police station. Has system action been taken? And if so, how do you judge them?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u191	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u192	Thank you very much, Senator, Professor, for the question. First of all, it wasn't a private stun gun. It was a stun gun that was normally equipped with a police station. That's why we know about this case, because the taser had a recording function. These are tasers manufactured by the American company, which were bought by the Polish Police and are at the disposal of the Polish Police. But it's their protective function, among others. is that when you turn them on and the electrode goes out that goes in and the current flows, the recording function is switched on at the same time. And that's why we know about the whole thing, because this recording then went to the editor of Wojciech Bojanowski, who could tell us all about it as viewers of the program. And please note that the developers of this particular equipment, as, you can say, the main alternative to firearms, themselves predicted that this kind of measure, if used as a means of direct coercion, should have a recording function, because this recording is a control function compared to, so to speak, the misuse of this particular equipment. But there were other cases, among others. If memory serves me right from Kołobrzeg, that a private taser was used that sends some electrical signals. But this is a completely different equipment that is not certified. And what we've achieved with the letters addressed to the chief police officer is that there's been a recommendation against any private equipment being used by the police. And when it comes to system changes, they didn't happen. Firstly, it should be the introduction of a prohibition of torture in the criminal code and a direct provision which defines the concept of torture. Secondly, it should be a question of guaranteeing and adequately financing the presence of lawyers, legal advisers at the station, from the vending machine, for each person detained. Thirdly, it should be an obligation to record all interventions that are undertaken by police officers by using the so-called. body cameraas, which means cameras installed on uniforms. I feel like these actions aren't there. implemented, and in the latter case a pilot programme was carried out, i.e. at least here the police began to convince themselves that something like this should be allowed and introduced. But, in principle, in my opinion, the conclusions of this case have not yet been fully drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u193	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. I withdraw my question. Thank you. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Absent. Absent. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, present. Mr. Ombudsperson, second plea, because we have already discussed the first one, namely politicisation. You have accused the politicization of the state as a whole. I don't know if it's a flaw or an advantage or a statement of fact, but your report can read the actual politicisation of the Ombudsman's institution under your direction. I quote: In 2018, many of the previously known threats related to respect for freedom and the protection of human rights and the citizen's rights increased in our country. Everything's fine so far. It's about your business. And now: the process of change leading to a breach of the balance of the authorities was continued, discrediting the role of the judicial authority and limiting, as a result, the exercise of the citizen's right to an independent and independent court. This is the entrance. in the eye of the cyclone, in a political dispute that actually was So far, by the way, it's been rolling. ♪ Inside the door ♪ ♪ not as a separate arbiter, impartial, but as one of the sides, a member of one of the camps. You may say otherwise, but in that case... Usually, the facts speak for themselves. Art. 45 constitutions, the right to court, because it was supposed to be mostly affected by these changes... What do we see next? Here is actually a fairly detailed historical picture of what happened in 2018, with a description, with an analysis of articles, etc., but this is your assessment, maybe other environments as well. I'd like to know from you if there were any... judicial reform that's actually been going on for about two years now. Have there been any complaints or, otherwise, requests from citizens to help protect their freedoms or rights violated by public authorities? art. 80 Constitutions related to these processes we have been dealing with, i.e. In violation of the laws of the court? This is about complaints from specific citizens Not theorists, not authorities of other institutions, but citizens' complaints. If so, how many were in the total number of complaints and what was their quality weight? Of course, without the names or other data by which the applicant could be identified. Okay? Are citizens complaining about judicial reform? It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u195	Thank you very much. There you go. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u196	Are they complaining? Well, I have the impression that... this is a report from 2018. Let's remember what happened the year before. A year earlier, in 2017, citizens complained about 200 demonstrations... Maybe not: in demonstrations taking place in 200 cities against the Supreme Court Act. If not for the President's veto, which was the result of these protests, the bill would have been in force long ago and we could not talk about the independence of the judiciary in Poland for a long time. These protests continued. Citizens who had all kinds of problems in the context of the protests in which they participated were complained about by judges who were being repressed by the authorities were complained by prosecutors who had been dismissed from the delegation for having participated in the protests concerning the courts. I feel like we all know exactly where we are. We are a month after the judicial law was passed, which ends the entire reform phase of the judiciary and the submission of the judiciary to political power. I have no doubt about that. I do not believe that this is a politicisation of the office, because I believe that citizens have the right to a fair and transparent examination of the case without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court, and do not have the right to have their case dealt with by a judicial and official body to be replaced by courts in Poland. That's what I'm talking about. And I mean the same thing all the time. I've been on this stand many times and I've told you that I'm talking about the right to an independent court. Moreover, I also said from this speaker how this has consequences from the point of view of European integration and the Polish future. And I haven't changed my mind about that. I believe that this was my role throughout my term of office to insist on it, to remind and present arguments as to why these changes would threaten the independence of the judiciary. If your senator is interested in such a thorough resolution of complaints or cases taken out of office, then of course in writing I will present it to the senator. If you don't mind, Miss Marshal, I'll ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u197	Thank you very much. The point is that this written information should be... You want an answer in writing, I understand. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u198	Yeah, but I'd like to be specific, because maybe you didn't understand me. Roger that. This isn't about theoretical analysis. This isn't about you being a spokesperson for the rights of a judge and a prosecutor. I'm going to have to take care of it. I'm gonna take care of it. I'm gonna take care of it, okay? This is about citizens. I would like to know how many ordinary citizens Not Members, not Senators, just drivers, sales ladies, construction workers, complained about the lack of independence of judges and the independence of the courts from making these changes. Because before the changes, such situations were widespread, as was expressed in the media. An example is the President of the District Court in Gdansk, which, I would say in quotes, set the date of the hearing. Mr. Senator, but I would very much ask that to be a question. Yeah, I'm almost done. I hope you understand. Yes, sir, I understand. It's about the specifics from the citizen's point of view. You're a civil rights attorney, not a judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u199	I would just like to highlight one point. The judge is also a citizen and has the right to protect his rights. There is no other state authority to protect the rights of judges. Well, according to the constitution of such an authority is the National Council of the Court of Justice, but I have the impression that it does not fulfil its constitutional role as guardian of the independence of the courts and independence of the judges in this respect, just since it has made this statutory amendment and the election of new members. As far as the individual situations of judges are concerned, such as disciplinary proceedings, I have the impression that there is no body other than the Ombudsman who could take action to defend them. It's not just theoulstitia, it's not just the lawyers, it's not just the judges who represent them. The Ombudsman also has some tasks to carry out. Moreover, sometimes it is even effective in these activities. Well, one of the things that Trociuk and I have been able to show recently is, for example. the fact that we believe that disciplinary spokesmen have been appointed in breach of the law because, in accordance with the laws in force, they should be appointed both by the Minister of Justice and by the National Judicial Council, and they only have the appointment of a Minister of Justice, which does not bother them particularly in order to continue their activities. It is conducted in a situation where the statutory standard of the KRS Act has not even been formally implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u200	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Ombudsman, first of all, I would like to ask you to give me the report you mentioned concerning the cases against Paul Adamowicz. That's one thing. Secondly, I think Mr. Falenta was convicted of illegal, without the consent of the interested, recording business and political meetings. He was convicted along with two other people who recorded it directly. Is it legal for public television to use these illegal recordings, acquired by crime, to be used for political action? Do you see a legal problem here? Thirdly, for the first time, we had to deal with a situation in which a search procedure was used for the control of property claims. For the first time, I think this is what happened. Isn't that the application of measures that are inadequate to the problem? Well, if it was to check if it wasn't true in the statement... So far, even if the case was being investigated, the person on whom the allegations were made was questioned by witnesses, and evidence from the documents was obtained. I think there's a line here that hasn't been crossed so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u202	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u203	Of course, I will report on these proceedings against President Adamowicz. The second thing is to use those recordings that have been made and then publish them. I think if we're even talking about Mr. Falenty's case... I think that we have one such unheard lesson, namely... I think that Grzegorz Rzeczkowski's book "The Alien Alphabet" passed in Poland without an echo, i.e. this echo was too weak, and I think this is one of the most important books on the human rights system in Poland, showing many different irregularities in the functioning of state bodies and showing all our greater reflection on the importance of this case. As for these illegal recordings, the problem, I think, is that they have already begun to function in public circulation and have been made public by many other magazines. It seems to me that there would be some difficulty in saying now that they can't be available at all, since basically without such greater reflection and... Maybe it's different. Since these recordings were previously published without a greater social protest, I think that journalists who publish them could invoke that they enjoy a certain privilege and established practice related to the fact that they had previously been published. But this is my general thought, and I wouldn't want my words to be treated in an absolutely binding way. I just need to think about it more seriously and maybe also see if we've had complaints of this kind. Mr. Spokesman's head is nodding that I don't think anybody's complaining about this. About the property statements... Ladies and gentlemen, the Ombudsman's work is that... on the one hand, we have to carry out systemic actions concerning many different problems, complaints with which citizens report. On the other hand, our social reality has such a nature that there are some stories and basically we should react professionally to it from day to day, because public debate is developing rapidly, new issues arise that would require reflection. Why am I talking about this? When it came to the statement about the villa in Kazimierz, the wiretap about the villa in Kazimierz Dolny, it took us a few days to prepare a decent, professional statement that holds together and which is, I think, professional from a legal point of view. As we have prepared, another thing has happened that would require such reflection. Yes? She happened literally a few days later. I mean, the search of the property claims, I'm guessing that's what the marshal's referring to. And here's a public announcement from patron Małecki that he's gonna file a complaint with the spokesperson's office. We will consider the complaint, we will take care of it, and we will probably respond to it, too, because I have the impression that the public would need this kind of position. Thank you very much for paying attention to the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u204	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that we have completed a series of questions. I also inform you that the Ombudsman has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and, as I understand it, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Yes, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I'll keep you posted for order... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski... Senator Czerwinski too, yes. Thank you for remembering. For the record, they signed up for a discussion... I give you the order: Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Aleksander Pociej, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Marek Plura, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman, please rest above all else.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This hall is not a literary club, but I will say that in addition to the truly excellent book by Grzegorz Rzeczkowski about gaining power, what was one of the ways by which the rulers gained power in Poland in 2015, another book is worth recommending during this debate. It is the book of Piotr Niemczyk 6:00 a.m. Who's knocking? This is a book, a story about what happened in Poland later. It is, in fact, fragmented, because it concerns only a small period, but the period that created the foundations of everything that we see today. This discussion is not about books, it is about the Ombudsman's activities in 2018. And for this activity in 2018, but also in the preceding years, and for what Professor Adam Bodnar is doing for civil rights and freedoms, I would like to thank you warmly. This is what you should do, that is what you must do because of the law that obliges you to do, but also your activity is an activity that mobilises others to make civil rights in Poland subject to public debate. Because as for the fact that they are systematically limited, I have no doubt. For as to the fact that the protective umbrella over civil liberties is gradually laid down by the rulers, I have no doubt either. Finally, I have no doubt that civil rights measures are amended by law, contrary to the Constitution, and therefore that they are adopted. Also thanks to the majority in the previous term of office in this House, and the minority at the moment, and the majority in the Sejm A bad law, such as that which allows the citizen to be less and less protected in terms of his constitutional rights. Once John Locke said that where there is no law, there is no freedom. We have to say: also where there is law, but bad law, freedom of absence, freedom is limited. We are dealing not only with the destruction of state institutions during the last four years, but also with the destruction of the law. And this wrong law, which is introduced, is unfortunately not in the interests of the citizen, but in the interests of the rulers. Because in the interests of the citizen, there would be a law that would increase the means of monitoring respect for civil rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 a national demonstration takes place in Katowice in May. This demonstration is organized by the Youth of All Poland and the National Movement. President Katowice agrees to hold a demonstration. During this demonstration, both slogans of dignity and other slogans are erected, which are hateful slogans of others who are not nationalists. This demonstration is decided to oppose a group of dozens of protesters. They stand before this demonstration, they won't let it pass, the demonstration is stopped, but those who protested against this demonstration are also detained. And they actually protested against the hate speech, which began to sip during this demonstration from the national circles. And they were actually fulfilling their civic duty to protect others from hate speech. The court ruled on them today because To the amazement of many, they were written down and blamed, they were blamed in court on the basis of a code of offenses, because they opposed a legal demonstration. Did they have the right to do that? The court found that they had the right to do so, and that's why he exonerated all those people. Unfortunately, we are unable to compensate for moral losses and the suffering of those who have suffered injury to their health. At least two people have been injured. One of these people had a painfully broken arm, suffered only because they thought that in Poland even within the legal framework After that, it's been solved. The demonstration must not spread hatred. I'm glad the court gave the verdict he gave. It grieves that those who protested against hate speech have been left in any way and blamed for anything. I'm glad... I am only talking about this because this is one of the areas of the Ombudsman's activities, which seems to me to be the most important one, and I am saying this in the context of 2018, and the Ombudsman also stuck to this time frame. Because remember: 2018 is the year in which we documented at least 569 cases of harassment for participation in demonstrations, in various protests. At least 569 people volunteered for different places, including my senator's office. And this joint published report also said that we estimate that those who were repressed for exercising their right to assembly and protest against various forms of civil rights violations were at least a thousand. I would also like to remind you that 2018 is a time when collective processes also begin in relation to different people from different social circles who protested a year earlier or that year. "Whether in court cases, the attacks on judicial independence we witnessed in this Chamber, while behind the wall, on the other side, people protested; or to oppose the illegal adoption of the budget a year earlier in the Column Hall, which is quite obvious because it was so; or when the clipping of the Białowieża Forest was protested. So the spectrum was huge. At the same time, the authorities decided to carry out a specific experimental ground to introduce a freezing effect so that citizens would start to fear So as to force the desired behavior with fear. I think that this is the specialty of the PiS: governing through fear, causing or using fear to subdue the citizen's political power. In this respect, the spokesperson, showing what the methods used by the rulers look like, did a good job in defending the right of citizens to assembly, the right of citizens to free assembly. Mr. Senator, time is running out. And in conclusion, I would like to say that perhaps the most dramatic statement that Professor Bodnar made today in this Chamber was that I would quote: It is not true that honest citizens have nothing to fear. If it is true that honest citizens have something to fear, then we are at the threshold of a police state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Professor! High Izbo! This comprehensive document, which was the subject of the Ombudsman's information today, was, in my opinion, merely an excuse to refer to the whole issue of the Ombudsman's activities, but also to look at the context in which it came to work for the professor, and to look at Poland, our country, in the context of the whole activity of the power camp of the Government of Law and Justice and the President. Over the last five years, and to understand the scale of the challenges faced by the Ombudsman, the last institution to defend the democratic rule of law and the fundamental principle of the threefold division of power, which upholds our rights and freedoms, to uphold civil rights. It's important to mention We have talked about this today, but maybe not enough about what we are doing in Parliament, in the Senate, which was until recently the practice of adopting the Senate's laws, about the fact that there was no institutional interaction between the authorities, so that the law created in the High House was of the best nature and was established in accordance with the principles of correct legislation, but also with the care of the citizen. We should also mention whether the senators Let's look back to the previous term of office and take advantage of the opportunity to cooperate with the Ombudsman's office so that the law is in the best form for the citizen. All right, all right, all right, all right, all I will mention here the law on the system of common courts, on the Supreme Court, on the Constitutional Court, which really lost its political role. These are related to what you have been talking about, problems, growing difficulties in giving every citizen the right to a fair hearing by a competent and, as I would stress, an independent, impartial, independent court. In this context, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Surveillance Act In my opinion, the criminal procedure is increasingly entering the sphere of civil rights, freedom of assembly. It has been repeatedly invoked here today as a law that interferes with civil rights... It's not just the introduction of the cyclical assembly bill. It's practice that's important. The practice that makes us increasingly face preventive detentions or the legitimacy of people who want to express their opinion by demonstrating their views on the streets. I remember how in times of the Polish People's Republic before important anniversaries, e.g. On 3 May, 11 November or the anniversary of December 70, SB officers came to our apartments to prevent us from being detained for 48 hours so that we could not attend these celebrations. It is a fear to think, if you are going in that direction, that the justice system can become a tool in the hands of those in power, as it was in the Polish People's Republic. The Ombudsman has repeatedly stood up for minorities, excluded, repressed, and yet the measure of our democracy is the attitude towards the weak, the needy, the disfellowshipped. In this context, the whole issue of hate speech, prejudice, xenophobia and acts of violence motivated by belonging to a particular national, ethnic, racial, religious, sexual orientation or, unfortunately, political orientation is very important, because Paul Adamowicz's example is an example of tragedy, drama, which undoubtedly has a political context. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank Mr Adam Bodnar on behalf of myself and my family, although it is universal in nature, it is certainly wider in nature. This is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg of 2018, which stated that the Polish State, through the actions of the prosecutor's office, broke the European Charter of Human Rights and the rule of law, depriving families who opposed exhumation, the possibility of appealing to the court on arbitrary decisions of the prosecutor concerning exhumation. The Ombudsman was the only institution that took the side of these families and helped us at this difficult time to describe our legal situation properly. The judgment of the Court of Human Rights has largely confirmed the position of Ombudsman. The Ombudsman's actions were appreciated in that judgment. Thank you very much for this position of spokesperson. [[Applause]] This judgment of the European Court of Human Rights has not yet been executed by the government. I am announcing from this speaker that the Senators of the Civic Coalition will submit to the next meeting a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in such a way that the party, the family, can challenge the decision of the prosecution on exhumation, so that the exhumation will never become a political tool of the camp of power. Ladies and gentlemen, thanking the Ombudsman for all his activity, for taking the side of the citizen and for his rights and freedoms, I would like to say that Poles have a sensitive and courageous defender of their rights in you, which is extremely important in these times. Tomorrow we will decide to allocate PLN 6 million from the President's budget to the Ombudsman's budget. I have no doubt that this will be a good decision, because the Ombudsman, Mr. Andrzej Bodnar... Adam. ...Adam Bodnar is a spokesman for all Poles, unlike the President, who is the President. only parts of Poles. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u208	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u209	It is very difficult to perform after such a personal, although universal message and speech by Senator Rybicki. I think he said what we all not only think about, but we often talked about it here from this bleacher. I, too, would like to join these thanks, Mr Spokesperson. I would like to thank you for your courage and for being, you can say, the right person in the right place at a rather difficult time that we have right now. But I would like to thank you not only for your steadfast attitude towards violations of the rule of law over the last few years, but also for the fact that it didn't interfere with you... I think 80 or even 90%. your activities It is today to be on the side of those people who cannot defend themselves, who need support, who feel at some point that they are left to themselves, so they have just asked you to intervene. They're often people who can't defend themselves for all kinds of reasons... These are people who are somehow excluded, just like those homeless people you mentioned, like those who were beaten, discriminated against. Thank you so much for what you're doing. It also gives you great respect in society and respect for this institution. And yet it is an institution that was created even during the commune, as we would say today, in 1988. And it's one of those institutions that turned out to be a bull's-eye when it comes to functioning in society. It turned out to be so necessary, especially in such difficult times. So, once again, I give great thanks for dealing with human affairs, although these human matters often also affect politics. I'd like to share some reflection, because we're meeting again. Although it is your report on the activities and the matters to be dealt with that is impressive, there are still some things that are repeated, and we are constantly dealing with them. It's just a shame that the authorities don't listen and do nothing about things like the Gostynin case or something we've discussed in this room many times. It's too bad it's happening. But there's one thing I'd like to thank you very much for. Well, in the last term, in the case of important laws, we received from the Ombudsman's office. And now we also receive legal opinions that have been extremely helpful in our work, and thank you for them. I would now like to address some of the points that you have mentioned, namely those unfulfilled judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. I think that's the job. for us in this term of office. We, in our previous term of office, also dealt with the judgments of the Court, tried to make up for something and to make up for it with our own initiatives, so that such unfulfilled judgments would be a little less. They were probably treated a little selectively, so that perhaps not always the most urgent ones were placed under the deliberations of our Legislative Commission. But I would like to point out that among other things. We submitted a proposal for legal aid the first hour after the arrest. Unfortunately, he didn't go through, but I think we're going back to this project in this term. I'm sure we can offer the right solutions, because I don't think we're gonna be able to see government solutions in these cases. Another case I'd like to say. I thank you for sending me a letter on the Court's judgment on the Public Media Act, the National Media Council, and the non-constitutional one. I would like to say that Mr. Marshal has already sent your letter to the Committee on Culture and we will take care of it. Tomorrow we'll be hosting the minister. Maybe there's finally a project ready, though I doubt it. Therefore, I think that we will proceed in the Senate to rectify this bill and regain some lost time. I'd also like to say... Such a sad reflection. You mentioned things about Wroclaw. We've just been... Some things are over, there are already judgments, e.g. in the Stachowiak case, although these judgments are probably not always satisfactory for the parties. But there are also cases such as the case of Father Miedlar, the former priest, in Wrocław very loud, which I think would not have ended in court if it had not been for your business. There is at the moment a case which, even though it has been dismissed in the general court, in the appeal court it was, fortunately, restored. So that the courts will be able to deal with these matters. I think that the two hopes that were left in Poland are that there are still free courts in Poland and that there is also the Ombudsman's Office and spokesman Adam Bodnar. So thank you so much for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u211	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! During the siege of Częstochowa, Miller boasts that he has had some success, although he did not act in accordance with war law. Colonel Sadowski is pretty keen on it, Miller gets mad, and a foreigner, Prince Heski, comes up to Sadowski and says, "Sir, you're a decent man, give me your hand." That's when Miller gets even madder, accusing of treason, which Prince Heski answers: Mr. Jenerale, I just took the liberty of saying that Mr. Sadowski is a decent man, and there's nothing against the rules. As I look at you, at your fight, when I hear these disgusting accusations of treason, and I don't know what it is that reminds me of this scene. I can only tell you, Mr. Ombudsman, that I would like to shake your right hand because you are a decent man. [[Applause]] I also recall this situation five years ago, because it's probably been five years since the end of the term of office, before the Platform was in the majority, there was a discussion inside the Platform, whether you could be supported. You know very well that I was among those who thought that you were absolutely to be supported. However, there were some colleagues who then took off to the PiS and claimed that you were a leftist and you didn't know who. And I must admit, after these five years with a clear conscience, I can say that in intercede for you, I have served the history of Poland, because the work you have done, few people could do. When I listened to your answers today, during which you were able to quote important kazuzas from your memory. Young people would say casey, but we are, at least I'm an older date, prefer kazusea, from Latin. You had all those numbers, all those examples in your head... I have no doubt that you live this life, that you are, as rarely happens, the right man in the right place, and yet the story has made the right man at the right time. I didn't have any doubts, because in our camp, however, it was thought that there was a possibility that we would win, that you would be an equally cut and insightful censor, regardless of whether there was a central government or a left government, because the bastard is not politically colored, it is just a bastard, nothing more. And your office is designed for this. And I know that you feel it with every nerve to resist the bastards. I'm comparing your report, your speech, your willingness to bear witness... You didn't have to do that. There's no limelights here. Since you were denied this opportunity in your previous term of office, you came here, you talked to us, and you explained some things to us that we didn't have access to. As I break into one situation and compare with what the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has done, Mrs Przyłębska, who was barely ready to come in 2019 and kindly say something about 2017 and did not agree to say anything, even though she is already two years late... She didn't even come to the Sejm, where she might feel more comfortable, because she wouldn't be asked insightful questions. If I compare these 2 attitudes, this is space, this is heaven. And the earth. I have to thank you again for that. What is the reaction of power? Well, that institution, because it's not you, but this institution, the wonderful associates you have, who work so hard so often because they also believe in what they're doing... this institution is being completed by financial authority. Here's a comparison. Ombudsperson's budget in 2014 - 39 million in 2015 - 38 million at the end of 45 million in... This is the estimate for next year. And I'm comparing this to the Institute of National Remembrance, which started at 246 million, 249 million, and ends at 405 million. It's a drama. At this time in the Supreme Court is an increase from 96 million to 164 million. But why? Only 12 million is a real raise, and the rest is the money for those two chambers that are neither constitutional nor do we know what it means to know what it is for. Also the Senate, as it is right here Mr. Marshal Borusewicz tells me with the right insight... Well, you try the other institution, where there's a free word, you murder it, you cut your finances by half. But maybe it's the light in the tunnel, because that means you're fighting us with horrible methods, but it's financial. There are countries where it gets a little worse. But that's what we're fighting for, so there's no further... I'm almost done. If your marshal will allow me, I'll be done by now, and I won't use another five minutes. I would like to say that, as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions, I will fight for the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, for the Senate to return to the fact that it will try to carry them out. Strasbourg is important. The Council of Europe is very important. And once again, I would like to thank you very much, Mr. and my colleagues, with whom I often have the opportunity to talk, for this effort, for the courage, insight and knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u212	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, You've had a lot of work in the last two terms, a lot of work. And, which isn't meaningless to the spokesperson... I know you're not afraid of work, but you were also under pressure. And thank you for not succumbing to this pressure. When we think about other institutions that deal with the law, the rule of law... We see what's going on. We see what's going on. And it's getting worse. The Constitutional Tribunal was under enormous pressure. Twelve changes to the bill are exactly the pressure. Supreme Court 8 amendments to the Act. General Courts - another change, perhaps the fourth, very important change. These changes have led us to rely less and less on the independence of the courts. But fortunately, the independence of the judges remains. Unfortunately, the independence of the courts by these changes is being shaken. Mr Ombudsperson, we also have you as an ombudsman of this part, who is concerned about the changes in the judiciary, about the changes in the law, because this does not apply only to the judiciary. I would like to remind you that the general court has started making changes very gently. First, the subordinates of the heads of the general courts to the governors of the courts were removed. It seemed that this was a very delicate change, one that could be accepted. 'Cause why would the court president be doing administrative work? But that was the beginning. Then there were further changes and we came to a situation where unfortunately the independence of the courts was significantly reduced. The Public Prosecutor's Office also conducts its activities, and it is not only those related to internal rules. The emphasis begins on judges by trying to prosecute criminal cases, and it's not for stealing, not for drunk driving, but for sentences, for judgments. We're just as sloppy. The prosecution has become a tool in the hands of a politician. In the hands of a politician we all know. Those changes in law that seemed theoretical... we see how they translate into practice. These are the changes that allow the prosecutor general to disclose investigative material regardless of the state of the case. And he can do it on a social basis, then why not? And who determines that? Who determines that it is socially justified to disclose materials from the wiretap of the former President of Poland? Attorney General. What is happening at the moment makes Poland an unbelievable country in terms of application of the law. We have said here many times that this will lead to questioning the position of Polish courts as European courts, i.e. to question the recognition of judgments of Polish courts outside Poland. And it happens slowly. Mr. Ombudsman, I admit that I was wondering whether to vote for you or to support you. But it was a good choice. I voted for you, and it was a very good choice. It can be said that in this situation, we have Adam Bodnar for the spokesperson and that this gives us some stability, creates a situation in which the citizens of the Polish state can count on that if it happens badly, the spokesman Adam Bodnar will talk about it. At least he'll alert you. I want to thank you for your courage and for your perseverance, your perseverance in a very difficult situation. But it is in life that people work in difficult situations. You've done your job, and you've done your job. That is why I thank you and your colleagues once again, because I know how hard it is to remain independent and also a certain elegance. Many institutions in Poland dealing with the law could model on you, but unfortunately in this respect it is getting worse in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Plura.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. The Ombudsman's report, which we are leaning over today, for many of us is a reading It's scary, it's definitely painful. I heard the voices of those who lacked some praise in this report for what is good. I would like to stress that if this report and previous reports hurt us, if another one hurts us... They're supposed to hurt because they're supposed to show these places, these areas in the functioning of our state, the social body, where intervention is needed. This kind of pain is a signal to change, sometimes in someone's personal life, in someone's case, as they say, and sometimes generally, in our legislation. Therefore, thank you very much for the fact that this and previous reports are so extensive reports. I, of course, paid particular attention to areas involving citizens with disabilities. I would like to thank here for the continuation and personal and long-standing work of the Ombudsman and the entire team for people with disabilities, which started when the Ombudsman was Prof. Irena Lipowicz, when we ratified the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This report is rich, its foundations are thousands, tens of thousands of human cases, situations, cases. And we've heard a lot about it. This wealth stems from many new functions which the Ombudsman has adopted under the law, but also from the needs of all of us citizens. We are increasingly taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the Ombudsman, and perhaps these opportunities are becoming less and less, because this apparatus, which the Ombudsman can use both in terms of team and infrastructure, is becoming a weaker tool in view of growing needs. I hope that, also in the spirit of responsibility attributed to the High Senate Chamber, we will already take decisions tomorrow in the budget vote, which will result in support for the organizational and technical apparatus of the Ombudsman's Office, perhaps not the office of Mr Adam Bodnar's spokesman, but the office of every ombudsman in Poland. I hope that soon I will be able to stop being ashamed of the fact that windows fall out in the building where the Ombudsman's office is located; that the Ombudsman's office must work on IT infrastructure from the end of the 1990s. I also hope that they will gain the support of the new solutions that Mr Adam Bodnar is proposing to meet these huge, growing needs of citizens, which I have just mentioned and which we have learned so much about in today's debate. These solutions have been in operation for 11 years now. I'm watching the civil rights officer's field office in Katowice. Similar, equally dynamic works in Wrocław. I see a handful of employees doing a lot to meet the needs of both individuals and local communities in the area of civil rights. These offices are also a great impulse... They serve him. It is about the impulse to discuss, important for local communities, how to respond to the needs that present day brings to us, about the dynamically changing and new areas of discrimination that we will always have to face precisely because reality is changing. Finally, such offices also serve to inform about how to exercise their rights and how not to discriminate against others. It is often precisely knowledge-bearing that is one of the best tools and that is what I wish to the Ombudsman. And that is what I wish, first of all, to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, that we can benefit from such an efficient tool as the Office of the Ombudsman, in all the voivodships of our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u216	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! The Ombudsman is very much needed in the Republic of Poland. We're gonna need this institution for a long time. When do I find out about this? Every Monday on Senator's duty. On average, for four hours people come to me with very different problems. Half of these problems would certainly find a place in your institution. I suspect it's the same with all of us here. Whether we help or not is another matter. But at least we're trying to listen. Unfortunately, Professor, I resent that you have not improved the image of the ombudsman in public consciousness. I have three charges against you. Two of them I tried to formulate in my questions so that you would have the opportunity to address them on an ongoing basis. I'll say it again. One: the ideology of the office. I understand that the Ombudsman should intercede first of all for the weaker ones, as on our shifts, for those who are helpless not only in relation to criminal law, because it is rare, but for the bureaucratic machine that surrounds them, institutional, because they do not have to be officials, from a housing cooperative starting with, and ending with the municipal office, prosecutors or courts. Unfortunately, the courts are the most important. This means that the Ombudsman should respond to what is happening outside, but through complaints from citizens, through citizens' requests. It's in the Constitution. He should not be procurating potential events, he should not be involved in a political struggle, but respond to citizens' complaints. Well, I didn't find any complaints from LGBT people in this very rich and fat book. Professor, do you actually respond to these people's complaints, or do you participate in the promotion of this ideology? The Ombudsman took part in the public debate on rainbow Friday. What could the Polish school teach on rainbow Friday? That's how they act, isn't it? They come to school and in an official way, ex cathedra teach young people their ideological mess? Are you defending them? From what? From themselves, I think. If you really want to defend people of different sexual orientation, they don't need advertising on equality marches. You're involved in ideology, promoting this ideology. That's not what you're saying. That's my grade. And if you compare it to the other pole... there were applause, smiles when I said Christianity. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be so that in the official document of the office, Christianity is only in the constellation of Christian fundamentalists, twice, except for its own names, and only in this constellation in this document. Is that their ideology or anti-ideology or isn't it? Professor, have you considered those parents who don't want rainbow Fridays at school? After all, they have the constitutional right to raise children as they think they do. And you impose this ideology on them to promote rainbow Fridays at school. I'm sorry I picked on that rainbow Friday, but this is the most essential expression of this ideology. Of course, for being with this ideology you are rewarded, you are in a celebrity layer, you are invited to various broadcasts, television, etc. It's not that. It's a shame about the office. It's a shame about the name. Really. The story will forget about these TV push-ups, but the picture of how you performed this function will stay. Second charge: politicalisation. Professor, really, if it communicates at the outset, in the introduction: The process of change leading to a breach of the balance of the authorities, discrediting the role of the judicial authority and limiting, as a result, the exercise of the citizen's right to an independent and independent court, either this is a political statement and you are taking part, is in favour of one of the parties to the conflict... You can, you can choose, but then you're not an impartial official for every citizen. Almost like a judge. Your position is almost the same as the judge's, in my opinion, from a systemic point of view. ... Or you're right, you are. But what's the best way to prove your point? Pointing to what you have written here, i.e. that judicial independence and the independence of the courts are at risk, they are being raped at the moment, not through theoretical analysis of documents, but through examples. You're on the front line. You're the one who's supposed to have people who think they've been mistreated by an independent judge or a dependent court. Did they come to you? I didn't find it in that document. You made a commitment to answer me in writing. I look forward to these examples of pure curiosity. 'Cause if the previous KRS, the beloved one, this is the judges who asked us to call the district court president from the Prime Minister's firm. It was a journalistic provocation, we remember, he wanted to set up court proceedings, that the Supreme Court judge instructed the Supreme Administrative Court judge, how to write a cassation complaint, these are evident examples of a breach of judicial independence and the independence of the courts. That's who they were. Not all of us, let's not generalize the judges that the old KRS has produced. What's the new one? We don't know that. That is why I asked for one example, at least one, to break the independence of the judge or the independence of the courts, who passed through your hands, an example of someone who complained to you, not a judge, not a member of the Attorney General, not a prosecutor, but an ordinary citizen who believes that his rights and freedoms have been violated, and came to the Ombudsman. But here's the thing. You didn't answer me. Perhaps there are examples. I'd like to find out. The last, third charge, in my opinion, is the most serious one, because there's still some way out of these two, namely, I'm saying it with all my responsibility. Anti-stateism, the pursuit of anarchy. Professor, you are a constitutional body to which the Constitution has devoted a whole chapter, several articles, one of the most important bodies for the protection of rights and freedoms. How can you say that it is not known whether some other authorities of the state, which have a similar position to your position, act as guardian of the Constitution? In today's speech a few hours ago, it was the Constitutional Tribunal. How can you, as an organ, question the status of another body of the Republic of Poland? Because you think so? Maybe. But that's another thing to say in private conversations, and that's another thing to say in this speaker when you talk to people and to us here. You have no right to question the status of another body because this is anarchy. You are taking part in the whole process of undermining trust in individual authorities. Then, after a few years, we will not ask who and why is unworthy of attention and untrustworthy. Everyone's gonna be the same shit if we don't get out of this. Perhaps we, too, are partly to blame as senators as this House. We'll try to improve. But unfortunately, Professor. I would like to hear from you that you will never again challenge the position of the Constitutional Authority in public, not least with the Senate speaker. You don't say that much. You're not just talking. You have withdrawn five of your applications from the Court. On what pretext may it be, but on what pretext did you make public? Mr. Senator... The thing is... Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes. I see. I'll finish the thought. ...The Tribunal is simply unworthy of judgment, does not guarantee the right judgment. How are you, ladies and gentlemen, discussing the verdicts of any government? All you have to do is write a voice. Just point out that this authority misjudged, showed lack of causality, lack of logic, lack of knowledge of law, etc. But an ex-cathedra advert: This tribunal is not a tribunal, it does not fulfil its role. Why? 'Cause I think so... Well, let's all just say it and we've got ready anarchy in the country. Mr. Spokesman, please don't do this again. You're six months away from your term of office, and it's time for improvement. There's always room for improvement. Don't do that again, don't anarchize your country, because you might just not be able to handle it. Become an objective body that primarily cares for citizens It is the citizen who is the most important, it is his rights that are the most important Don't play politics. Of course they'll reward you, you'll be asked to do every other TV show, as I said. But what do you need it for? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u219	Now please take the floor of Senator Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u220	Dear Marshal, Dear Ombudsman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Before I go to the right part of my speech, I would like to thank Mr Adam Bodnar for being here today, for his entire term of office, for being an organ that upholds civil rights and freedoms, for doing so well in his job, and for the courage he has shown all this time, because it is in the situation in which we are in today's situation that gives encouragement. And thank you very much for that. And as for the information, I would like to point out that the picture that emerges from the information presented does not give us any reason to be proud. 2018 was another year in which the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms required greater involvement and determination of the Ombudsman. This information shows a sad truth. The state is ineffective in resolving important social problems. The fatal situation of health care is a fact that affects the situation of the citizen. The deepening of inequalities is also a fact that affects the situation of all, but especially the situation of Polish children. In 2018, citizens reported 57 000 cases to the Ombudsman, 5 000 more than in the previous year. In these reports we see Poland growing inequalities, falling standards of democratic rule of law, impunity of public authority, Poland slowly becoming a denial of what it was supposed to be. In this report today, the Ombudsman pointed out that real access to a lawyer is a problem. We have a problem because we don't have defined torture. We have a problem with hate crimes and, which is very much related to security online. We do not have systemic solutions to prevent homelessness, and especially, what is worth paying attention to, homelessness among young people. We have a problem with solving the problems of older people, housing problems. We have a problem with the exclusion of transport and, consequently, the right to equal access to education, to culture. On one point, I will not agree with you, because today's report says that this may only apply to small towns, and this does not apply to areas such as Silesia. I come from Silesia and I know that it is in Silesia that transport exclusion is a huge problem. In my district, in the cities, in the county, there's a problem with getting to a good school. Mothers have problems with their children going to a better school because despite the existence of railway tracks there is no railway connection. These are all problems that you just haven't dealt with. We see the continuation of the process of changes leading to a breach of the balance of the authorities, discrediting the role of judicial authority and thus restricting the exercise of the citizen's right to an independent and independent court. As a result of propaganda, heith and contempt, there have been many threats in our country related to the observance of freedom and the protection of human rights and the protection of the citizen. As a result, Poland has been subject to the rule of law control procedure. This alone should be a serious warning to public authority. The politicised prosecution and the destabilized justice system no longer protect citizens from the impunity of power, power, which is very eager to look into people's private lives. The lack of solutions to protect citizens from surveillance and control of services is noticeable. At this point, I would like to refer to Senator Bogdan Klich's statement on today's judgment on national demonstrations. I would like to establish because, as a lawyer, I had the honour of defending eleven of those who protested against Nazi symbols, passwords and hats, people who had had a trial for almost two years only because they had stopped this march and basically fulfilled their civic duty. Because every citizen has a duty to oppose hatred, and every citizen has a duty to oppose hate speech, and every citizen has a duty to oppose discrimination against other social groups for whatever reason. Some of these people have been acquitted before, the rest of whom I have not had the pleasure of hearing this judgment, the court has acquitted today. But it must be remembered that during this demonstration one of these people had a broken arm, suffered a broken arm during police intervention, which was brutal enough that the person suffered a trauma. And this person has been on trial for two years for false testimony against a police officer, and the D.A. has filed charges against her. No more than two weeks ago she was also, fortunately, acquitted. So that citizens' rights are still... this border of protection of citizens' rights is constantly moving. We are becoming a society more and more divided, conflicted, allowing in speech and making extreme feelings, very often hate. We also had an example of this in Bialystok, where a hateful crowd was besieged, spit and threw stones at the participants of a peaceful demonstration in defence of human dignity, or recently in a courtroom in Rybnik. And I would answer to Senator Czerwinski in one sentence: what can the school teach on rainbow Friday? Tolerance, because we could all use it. The scope and variety of cases taken by the Ombudsman, the professionalism of the assistance provided and the number of interventions make this office the most supportive. All public authorities should support the Ombudsman in his action to protect citizens' rights, in particular with regard to the allocation of appropriate resources for this activity. The Senate of this term of office is a body in which wise ideas and right solutions will always be heard. And cooperation between the most important authorities of the state is crucial for the benefit of all our citizens. I strongly believe that the Senate will take both legislative initiatives and other actions to create systematic protection of human rights in Poland. I myself declare that whenever I can, I will support actions such as the Ombudsman's actions, because the Ombudsman protects the rights of the smallest ones, those who, from the heights of the Seym or Senate tribune, we just sometimes don't even have time to see. They're coming right over there. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u221	Dear Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, Thank you very much for your positions, for your discussion, for your many warm words at my address and at the Ombudsman's Office. I've never had an opportunity before. Maybe it's my negligence. But I would like to say that my deputies and the general director, Mr Stanisław Trociuk, Ms Hanna Machińska and Ms Katarzyna Jakamowicz, are still here in the debate. Thank you very much for the work they do. I still have Dr. Maciej Taborowski's deputy, but he's on the case because we had other initiatives planned, and he's busy with it. As I listened to these comments about whether I was dealing with ordinary people's affairs, I thought to myself: well, actually this morning we organized a powerful seminar on waste management, really, I wouldn't have to do it, and I have the impression that it was important for these people, especially from housing cooperatives, that they might have felt sorry for themselves. Tomorrow morning, I don't know why, I get up at 5:30 to go to Katowice for a seminar on smog in Silesia. We really worked hard to make a big meeting. I won't forget one Sunday when I sat down for two hours and individually signed invitations to everyone in the country so they'd show up to listen. Because I want this smog out of Silesia and other cities. I am pleased that one of the activists from Silesia, from Rybnik, thanks to our support, led his case to the fact that a legal question was asked to the Supreme Court. And maybe it'll make a difference. And that's basically my everyday life, my day-to-day handling of things. As senators, you know very well that if they turn back with a request, we try to answer quickly. Of course, these answers are not always what you would expect, because we do not always see human rights violations. But we also try to meet individually and talk. As I hear accusations of ideology, I recall all these 200 meetings that I organized throughout Poland, which dealt with really different issues. How I was preparing today Even my colleague, Director Jędrzejczyk, prepared me a list of these meetings from 2018. I even remember how the air smelled in Radomsk, why there is smog in Radomsk and why this smog, because of the furniture industry, has a different character than in other cities. I remember a school in Gołdapi, where we met, I remember a cinema hall in Bełchatów, where we met, I remember something like a cultural house in Świnoujście, etc., etc. This is... Really, if someone points out to me another government official who's looking for subjects himself and, above all, understanding these subjects... 'Cause I don't drive around to get more complaints. 'Cause I'm sick of them. I'm just driving to understand. To understand why citizens complain, why in these Their fences are hindered by the exclusion of transport, and in some places like, I don't know, Turk has a problem with miners employed in the lignite mine because they worked on the coal railway and someone didn't take their pension rights into account. And then, I don't know why, because I don't think anyone's gonna even appreciate it, we're having a meeting, we're getting trade unions together, and we're looking for a way to help those who can't retire early because of bad working conditions. This is my everyday life. This is my everyday life as a spokesman, this is the everyday life of my deputies, this is the everyday life of all the employees of the Ombudsman's office. And I can only thank them for wanting to work like this. That is why I am very grateful for these words of support and thanks. Thank you for those very kind words about the exhumation. After all, it was a case like the drama of Antigona. Let's not be afraid of that word, it was the drama of Antigona. Does the family or the state have a right to be buried? Can the state decide for the family how to deal with the remains of the dead in order to realize some ideological visions that no one even wants to admit to now? Do we have a right to court? Do we have the right to an independent arbitration? Mr Trociuk and I wrote letters indicating that in this situation the right to court should be guaranteed. When I hear about the Stachowiak case, of course I can be glad that this case is final, but for me it means effort, because I won't be able to look into Igor Stachowiak's father's eyes. I've had the privilege of knowing and doing, I think, a giant job to make this case clear. Without an analysis of the case in terms of cassation. Because if the court did not call things by name, he did not say that it was torture, and the justification may suggest that it was so, then it is my duty to not only to Father Igor Stachowiak, but to all other people who may be, were or will be victims of such practices. My duty to this ordinary man is to make such a matter clear and to create reliable, rational standards for the fight against torture, legal standards. I am very pleased that the Senate is ready to work on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, a job has been done in the Senate. At one time, as I would like to remind you, this work was also done in the Sejm. Why didn't the Sejm of the previous term even once convene a subcommittee on the execution of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? It was a beautiful institutional achievement. We used to have this subcommittee, but it's frozen, it's not there, we don't talk about it. It's a good thing the Senate was at least handling it. I am honest, and I stress that the Senate of the previous term did this too, and the Marshal of Seweryński held separate meetings on this matter. But I could ask this question: why so little ambition? Why should we consider only the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and all these recommendations of international bodies such as GRECO, such as UN committees, no longer? Why aren't we doing this more widely? Why in Poland is it more interested in NGOs than in parliamentarians? It seems to me that the Senate absolutely has the opportunity and space to organise regular debates on individual reports and recommendations of UN bodies. As I've heard about these comments about where we are and what happened, I've come to think of one thing that, like in the lens, shows where we are. I thought of prosecutor Mariusz Krasoń, one of the bravest prosecutors in Poland, the most serious prosecutors, who among others. accusing a well-known Brunon April. He was so good at his profession, so professional that when he started having problems with his superiors at the prosecutor's office, the lawyers who were on the other side, Maciej Burda and his colleagues, they were defending him, saying, "We respect him because he's a professional, he can't meet these kinds of situations." Why am I talking about prosecutor Krasoń? Because, as I recall, his participation in the demonstration was carried out in respect of him by a decision of the national prosecutor of forced secondment to another office of the prosecutor's office 300 km from his place of residence. Even though he cared for sick parents, he was not even given a chance to appeal. However, he appealed against it, sought a legal way, behaved like a professional lawyer. The Court of First Instance found that there was a legal road in such situations. What's happening now? Now those judges who ruled on him have disciplinary action. That's what it looks like. So if, as judges, we've done something against the interests of the D.A.'s office, if we've violated the interests of the D.A., then we have disciplinary action. We're supposed to sit quietly as judges. This is today's reality, this is what it looks like. The case of Krasonia and everything that's happening with the judges now is a testimony to that. Let's remember that because it's not one case. This is a case from the last few days that shows what it's all about. If we're talking about this... This remark from the senator, this very strong statement regarding the presentation of these matters... I would like to point out one thing that I have repeatedly emphasised in the debate. There is such a concept as the freezing effect. There is a pressure of disciplinary proceedings or disciplinary proceedings, which means that you can move a judge to another department, that you can make a visit, review all the files and show some irregularities that are probably easy to find with every judge, since everyone is overly burdened with work and has several hundred cases in the paper. All of this has a freezing effect. And now the judges... It's not like they're gonna write straight: I made that decision because I was under the influence of one or another. They're usually gonna be... There are different methods. There are scientific articles on how the freezing effect is achieved. A typical method is to escape into formalism. I don't want to say the right thing, but I pretend to act in such a way that no one tells me the wrong word or nobody grabs my hand. This isn't justice. This is a method that is difficult to point out later, but we know that this is how judges can behave. They may also extend the procedure in such a way as not to result in a specific judgment. I didn't bring up statistics on temporary arrests for no reason. Why is it that the number of arrests has doubled over the last five years, and crime is at the same level? I don't know the answer to that question. We have exactly the same level of crime in Poland, and we have twice as many arrests. It's a pressure effect. I'll try to put it to the senator so that the senator doesn't have any doubts about it. Rainbow Friday. I believe that it is not harmful or contrary to the values of organizing this type of action in schools. The people who were being harassed for organizing them were the teachers who decided to do it. I dealt with a specific complaint from Tarnowskie Góra, which concerned it. I wish the senator had read everything I wrote to the Election Newspaper about rainbow Friday. I wrote the text, I thought it was an important thing to say about it. This is not really due to ideology, it is not because of some, I don't know, desire for honors or anything like that, but because I really deeply believe that school should be a place to shape attitudes of tolerance, acceptance and understanding for diversity. I'm also aware of the history of what touched a homosexual person. And I wrote this: let's imagine that we have a history lesson that takes place on rainbow Friday. I wrote this: surely the students would be interested in the fate of homosexuals from the times of World War II, the history of depriving them of freedom, marking them with a pink triangle in concentration camps and systemic extermination. Moreover, I wrote that perhaps against the background of Nazi Germany at that time Poland would appear as a country of relative acceptance or tolerance, because in Poland in the 1930s legislation was adopted, which did not punish homosexual practices. This is the Polish acquis, the Makarewicz Code, the 1930s, which led to this. Why would you... This is our story. Why shouldn't we talk about it? You want us to erase it? We're not supposed to talk about this with our students, are we, with our high school students? We're supposed to assume that this is something they're not allowed to do? They will learn the same in Majdanek or Auschwitz. I also wrote, for example. The fact that you can spend a little more time on the Enigma machine story. A great work of Polish IT scientists, mathematicians, cybernetics, a machine whose ciphers the British broke thanks to the help of Poles. You can tell the students what happened to Alan Turing after the war that he was being treated and being treated for hormonal therapy, which resulted in his suicide and for which the British Prime Minister Gordon Brown apologized. Is there something wrong to tell your students in class? Let us really think rationally and do not create delusions that certain facts or events, certain situations do not take place. I also pointed out here, for example, to the action of Hyacinth, the action of intimidating homosexuals at the time of the Polish People's Republic. There are books on this in the IPN. It's not a big secret. So let's be rational about this. In my opinion, this is not any promotion of ideology, but simply speaking about facts, including historical facts. At the end of the anarchy. Mr. Senator, we meet here in the Senate many times, discussing things. I have heard many sad words about myself from Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz. I thought I would no longer listen to similar words in the Polish Parliament. I'm really trying to do my job as seriously as possible. With regard to relations with the Constitutional Tribunal, we know well that this is a very difficult situation in terms of respect for civil rights and freedoms, whether citizens have a real right and the possibility to benefit from a constitutional complaint and whether constitutional control mechanisms work as they should. I'm not the first, I'm not the last one to talk about it. The last important event was a letter from 22 former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which concerned this. I told you, I quoted interviews, I quoted the text of Mrs Pyziak-Szafnicka, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest. Someone could also tell her that, as a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest, she should not speak at all about the Court. Recently, a very important interview was given by one of the greatest authorities of constitutional law, Prof. Lech Garlicki, in which the interview also, I think, said very serious things about the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, I, apart from speaking, have legal instruments. If you're saying, Senator, that I've withdrawn my actions from the Constitutional Tribunal because of some, I don't know, my imaginations... No, we are. We did, first of all, after applying to exclude some of the people from the hearing, and it was a motion to exclude the judges... the people that I believe And I've been saying this consistently from the very beginning, since 2016. They do not have the status of judges, secondly, after showing, on the basis of a very detailed analysis of the file of proceedings, that there has been a manipulation of the formations, that there has been such a change of composition that in fact this composition is shaped in a manner that is even incompatible with the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal. Only then did I decide to withdraw these complaints. It's not like I just pulled them out, just like that. This was preceded by very specific actions which gave me reason to believe that I could not count on the independent decision of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case. And just as I have the right to apply to the Court, I also have the right to withdraw such requests. I have the same right to join constitutional complaints, but I may not join some constitutional complaints. This is the sphere of my discretion, you said I was almost like a judge. And I use this discretion as part of my independence because I have such a constitutional guarantee. I have a guarantee of independence. I'm responsible for what I do before my own conscience. And I think that citizens, society I don't know if they're gonna judge my business in a full way now or not. I don't think I have anything to be ashamed of about that. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, thank you very much for the opportunity to present annual information and information on the state of compliance with civil rights and freedoms in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u222	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, for presenting the information, but thank you also to his alternates And here I will mention them all: Mr Stanisław Trociuk, Mrs Hannie Machinska, Mr Maciej Taborowski. [[Applause]] I state that the Senate has been familiar with information about the Ombudsman's activities and the status of respect for human rights and human rights in 2018. Thank you very much. The messages will now be read. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a moment, please. Messages will be read, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u223	First Communication: meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the consideration of the draft resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary The Senate printing No 78 will take place tomorrow, 27 February, at 8.00 in room 102 in the so-called. The Marshal's corridor. Second Communication: the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of the proposals submitted at the fifth Senate meeting to the Budget Act for 2020 - Senate printing No. 70 - will take place tomorrow at 8.15 am in room No. 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-26-senat-05-2.u224	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, February 27th, until 10:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 17]]
