ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u1	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u2	Thank you. In view of the opposition raised against the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will settle this matter in a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 216 - for, 204 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. The second objection concerned three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions and five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. This objection will be voted out. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion at first reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. There was an objection. Reason for objection. We'll vote it out. Who of the Members is in favour of the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to hear three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions and five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda? Who's in favour? No, no, no, no, no, Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 224 - for, 208 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We still have formal requests. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u3	God bless you! A year ago, a boy, Simonek, died in one of Warsaw's children's hospitals, left to die by inhuman people. Not only are unborn children not safe in Poland, but also those born healthy cannot rely on care and security guarantees from the Polish state. I suggest that the Sejm devotes a moment of silence to this matter, so that the one who can, who wants, for those unborn and born, who can't wait, despite the appearances of the majority for living in the High House, guarantees of security, guarantees of life on the part of the brightest Republic of Poland, will sigh in prayer. Only the will or lack of political will, as in this case, justifies putting off [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the freezer of the seym projects behind life. A moment of silence, a sigh of prayer. Give them eternal rest, Lord. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u4	Thank you very much, sir. As you know perfectly well, this is not a formal conclusion. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, formal proposal. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I make a formal request to convene the Senior Convention and to put on the agenda a point on the situation in single-name hospitals and preparations for a possible second wave of epidemics. We've been talking about one-name hospitals for weeks. The situation over there is simply dramatic. Staff are usually panicking around the world. The situation of personnel is like crews on the Titanic. They don't know what to do, they can't talk to anyone, and the ministry won't help. We are also talking about patients who feel it even more because they realize that today hospital names, dedicated to fighting a pandemic, are left to themselves. Pandemic is an element that grows all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, this formal proposal is an expression of our responsibility for the second wave of coronavirus. Mrs. Marshal! I'm asking you all the time, but I want you to call the Convention today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u6	Thank you, sir. You know very well that this is not a formal conclusion. We talked about this at the Convention meeting. No, it's not a formal conclusion. Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. Here you go, with a formal proposal, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a formal request to complete the agenda for information to the President of the Council of Ministers on the purchase of ventilators by the Ministry of Health. [[Applause]] Conspirators. Ladies and gentlemen! This matter must be clarified and the Prime Minister's information is needed in this respect. How did this happen, High Izbo, that an arms dealer appeared at the Ministry of Health? How did it happen that without any mode, with the authorisation of the services of the State of PiS, a contract for PLN 250 million was signed without specifying this equipment? How come, like, $12,000? The respirators ordered for PLN 44 million did not deliver any respirator? How come the Material Reserve Agency bought the same ventilator... Thank you very much, sir. ...for 70,000, and you're Minister Szumowski for 200,000.? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u8	Thank you very much, sir, but this is not a formal proposal either. This is not a formal proposal, Mr President. It's just stealing. Really. I'll take it, but it's not a formal conclusion. This is not a formal conclusion. But thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the draft Polish Tourist Bone Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (print No.423). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u9	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the presidential bill on the Polish Tourist Bon. It is a project which implements the announcements of President Andrzej Duda, which concerned the support of Polish families in leisure, especially this holiday, as well as support for the tourism industry. This project aims to achieve two goals. The first one is family support. The provision in the form of a travel voucher, which will be worth 500 PLN, will benefit all those families who receive 500+ benefits, as well as those families who have children in foster care and receive appropriate benefits for this purpose. It is also important that families who take care of disabled children will be able to obtain the right to an additional bonus. This means that families with children with disabilities for one child will be able to obtain a total amount of PLN 1000, which, as the President hopes, will allow you to organize rest not only for such a child, but also for the caretaker who will be able to spend time with this child. What is very important, entitlement to this benefit will be granted to all children who are entitled to benefit 500+ and to the benefit of families with children in foster care until 31 December 2021. In order for children who subsequently acquire the right to these benefits, this voucher can also be used until the end of March 2022. What is very important, the value of this voucher is exempt from income tax, but will also not be included in the amount of income on which the acquisition of the right to various benefits depends. This is a very positive solution because it will not affect the benefits that the family will receive. It is also worth noting that this voucher can be used several times until the amount it amounts to is exhausted. It is also important that it will be a voucher that will be granted automatically. A possible check on whether or not someone has the right to such a benefit will be succeeding. Therefore, the President hopes that already this year the eligible children will be able to take advantage of the holiday, and thus families will be able to support the Polish tourism industry. This is the second purpose of this bill, support of the Polish tourism industry, because this voucher can be used by tourists, as well as in public benefit organizations organizing various kinds of trips or tourist events operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The tourism industry, as you know, has suffered quite badly as a result of COVID-19. Recently, I was at a press breakfast attended by representatives of the tourism industry. They are very pleased with the proposal to introduce such an instrument, which will undoubtedly help to minimise the negative effects of the pandemic, as well as the downtime that occurred as a result of the closure of various types of tourist facilities. High Izbo! Given the advantages of this solution, as well as the fact that the measures could be used precisely for this targeted assistance, aid for the organisation of rest for minors, I ask the High House to consider this presidential bill. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position towards the draft Act on Polish Tourist Bone presented by the President of the Republic of Poland in print No 423. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Presidential bill on the Polish Tourist Bone is the result of the programme of support for Polish families already announced in April, on the one hand, and the help of the tourism industry on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, the measure of good policy is its credibility and responsibility. It is about responsibility for a given word, responsibility for the nation to be served, its security and development. An efficient leader is recognized by how he copes, not when it is good, but in times of crisis. For several months now, the world has been struggling with a massive health crisis caused by the epidemic and caused by the economic crisis. Only thanks to the great effort and good cooperation of the Government of the United Right and President Andrzej Duda, Poland manages to carry out safely through the global crisis. This is demonstrated by both the hard data and the opinions of independent global economic experts. For example, on the German website Focus Online we read that Poland has become a phenomenon for European economists. The main factor determining the significant reduction of economic losses associated with SARS-CoV-2 virus was the rapid response of the Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice. A large aid package protected Polish companies from bankruptcy and serious job losses. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! President Andrzej Duda, together with the Government of the United Right through groundbreaking social and solidarity programs, invests in Polish families and Polish business, thus strengthening the national economy. The solutions introduced have increased domestic demand and have made the Polish economy less vulnerable to threats and global crisis. Poland is becoming more and more attractive to investors and can come out of the pandemic strengthened - we read in Die Welt. We're over the health crisis. Thanks to the actions of the government, the Minister of Health, Polish doctors did not have to and do not have to choose which patients to connect to a ventilator. We are also overcoming the economic crisis. Thanks to the next editions of the crisis shield and financial shield serving to support entrepreneurs and protect jobs, over 85 billion have been made available to Polish entrepreneurs for the time being. We've protected millions of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act on Tourist Bones by President Andrzej Duda is another instrument of support for the Polish tourism industry and families with children. Mr. President! I would like to thank the ministers very much for the President. Thank you for another good project supporting Polish families, Polish entrepreneurs. We are convinced that we will be able to carry out many such good projects together for Polish families. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law presented by the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u12	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Raś will now speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is true that tourism is the industry that will suffer most as a result of the epidemic and suffer from it for many, many months or perhaps years. We do not know what the condition of tourism companies will look like in the autumn, when it will end up being adopted by Parliament in the first so-called shield. deferment of payments for advances which customers have paid to unrealised tourist events. All this caused us to hear about various projects - I say: different projects, because they had different assumptions - which were to be addressed, addressed to laws. Minister Emilewicz said a few months ago that it was ready, it was 1000+. Recently, a project calculated in my opinion on the campaign effect, which is not well recognizing the needs of the tourism industry today, here and now, came out of the governing community. Therefore, it is not surprising that this draft of the President, which was presented by the Minister, is inconsistent, unhappily to me. I'm about to talk about this on behalf of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club. We offered at some point... We reached out to the entire parliament and on 22 May in Krakow we presented a project with President Budka, in short, a tourist check, a universal check, for everyone, and I will talk about it right away, and we directed it, also on 22 May, to the presidents of all parliamentary clubs. Thank you for consulting everyone except Mr. President, Mr. Marshal Terletki, who received this project, but he did not want to meet us, to talk to us. We wanted to solve this over division, because the economy at such a time of crisis requires action over division. However, our project was aimed at first reading not at the session of the Sejm, but at the committee, and not at the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, which I am chair, where experts sit, only to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. It also shows... Of course, in some way this presidential project contains a certain element of support for the family, which I will not like to stress, but a pro-economic instrument is not and excludes very many social groups that would be important for Polish tourism during such a crisis period. Please return e.g. Note how other countries, stronger than us touristly, fight for pensioners. It is not about filling the centres in tourist and holiday peaks, and this is what this declared presidential voucher for elections is supposed to serve, but about spreading interest in traveling and getting to know Poland for periods beyond these peak months. Therefore, our project was dedicated to all tourism companies... And people, all people. ...all hotel categories, all campsites, agrotourism, holiday homes, i.e. all entities that account for themselves and issue invoices in Poland. This is an election sausage. This isn't an election sausage. This is a pro-economic project. Mr Suski, read this and understand it. I see. Truth in the eyes of the circle. Think about it - because maybe you don't know - today tourism brings the same amount to the state budget as agriculture. You do not know that 60 billion, over 60 billion, is the size of the economic sector, which is tourism. You underestimate him. You want some piece of action that's supposed to be just a rescue, and I don't think you can save President Duda, President Duda in the campaign, for public money... It's not a mature idea. This is... What did you do? The idea that the Civic Coalition presents... [[♪ The bell ♪]] What did Trzaskowski do in Warsaw? ...is an idea consulted... Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. ...which we're going to introduce tonight again. Now a representative of the parliamentary club Dariusz Wieczorek has the floor. You're welcome, sir. That's why we want to work on the project, but of course we want it to look completely different, so that the voucher is universal, for everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u14	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. You're welcome. It's common lies. I'm not lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, today we are debating a project concerning the Polish Tourist Bonus, and it is probably not a coincidence that this is happening one week before the presidential election. This is not a coincidence, because every time I see the Minister and the Minister, I know that some presidential project appears in the Polish Parliament. And it is not a coincidence that it appears today. Before the vacation. And one can say yes: it was a good thing that on 10 May these elections did not take place, because if they did, we probably would not have this project on the agenda of the Polish Parliament today. Because the truth is that, as far as the tourism industry is concerned, the Polish government knew exactly what problems it had since the beginning of March, when decisions were made about closing borders, closing hotels or closing hotels at all. the whole tourism industry. It was well known that these problems would be very serious when it comes to the industry, which - I pay attention to one thing and I think that the rulers might learn from this - is not only an industry dealing with the rental of hotels or the rental of a tourist base. After all, today, and this is what studies say, the gold spent on tourism generates an additional 4.3 PLN in other sectors, because tourism is an increase in trade, tourism is an increase in revenue in transport, tourism is also an increase in influence in agriculture, tourism is an increase in influence in other areas of the economy. This is really very serious. This project is therefore, of course, going in the right direction. The truth is that it is really good that today this project is, although, I say, it is very, very late, because the tourist season has begun. But we're paying attention. on one point, namely because of the need to save tourism, it is important to consider whether this idea of the President should not be returned to the idea of 1,000. Zł, because that was the idea at first. The Left Club will make appropriate amendments to this matter. And then there's the other thing. It is undoubtedly important to consider whether this project is intended to apply only to families who take 500+, or whether it is appropriate to expand the database of people to whom this travel voucher will benefit, for example, pensioners and pensioners. This is very important from the point of view of the sustainable development of the industry, because the truth is that 40% all orders for accommodation are July and August, while the question is what to do in the remaining months. It would also be worth considering such an amendment, because today, especially when it comes to pensioners and pensioners, it is worth giving them a chance after this pandemic, after they were sitting in their homes so that they could go to the mountains, to the sea and just rest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Using this tourist voucher. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u16	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Club of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u17	Dear Marshal, Minister! Prime Minister! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! What was it supposed to be, Prime Minister? It was supposed to be loudly announced 1000 PLN. The money was to reach 7 million Poles employed under the employment contract. The money was intended for workers who were in the national average, i.e. PLN 5200. The programme was to run for 2 years, the budget was to finance 90%, the entrepreneurs were to finance 10%. This was a proposal, ladies and gentlemen, with which the tourism industry has become accustomed, which has started a discussion. Of course, further questions have also been raised concerning those not covered by this proposal. The farmers asked and asked those who gave up their work to take care of their disabled children or family members. That's what happened. This was a proposal that partially responded to what is happening today, ladies and gentlemen, in the tourism industry. What's the reality? Just ask, ladies and gentlemen, those who run restaurants, hotels. Besides, we walk on our own, we see what's going on. It's not good, it's not good. And this proposal, which was proposed by the Prime Minister, was certainly a much more interesting proposal than the one we are considering today at this meeting, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot simply say that in Poland we are to support families and children. And the retirees, the pensioners? They don't deserve anything? Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Coalition Club will have a further proposal and amendment so that we will stop sharing Poles in this room. One hundred million each. No, sir, to anyone who pays taxes in this country so that we do not make these discussions effective so that they are not so exciting. You should have given people eight years in charge. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, what's good about this project is because I have to say it too. The fact that he's supposed to be in force for two years is good. The fact that it is to apply in Poland - good. The fact that you have come to the conclusion that this is to be in electronic, digital form - good. That it's gonna be an easy way - okay. But finally let us create a mechanism that does not differentiate between Poles, which would give us the opportunity to benefit from all of this. I come, ladies and gentlemen, from Western Pomerania, which is very dependent on tourism, on the weather, but even more on what is happening in the economy. And I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is what we expect. What happened yesterday in the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, when we were talking about the support primarily of the catering industry in terms of expanding Internet sales opportunities? Unfortunately, both the PiS senators and the Platform senators said no, we're not helping this industry, we're not expanding their capabilities. Internet sales just gave them a chance to survive. They just want to survive tonight. The tourism industry is probably very exposed to this. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking at how we do not want to divide Poles, this is what Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish has been talking about for many weeks, I would like to say: let us not differentiate Poles, let us not differ. Too bad you didn't remember that when you guys raised your retirement age. Everyone is equal, ladies and gentlemen, and the tourism industry is looking forward to real support. We've already proposed a liquidity fund on the first shield. What took you so long to think about it? Why have we lost so many jobs since then? Why is there no proposal today, when June ends, to extend certain solutions? Some industries will not be able to function for weeks. You can see that. Today Polish entrepreneurs expect this. And we, as a club of the Polish Coalition, will report this amendment, which I was talking about, ladies and gentlemen. We look forward to this understanding so that we do not finally divide Poles, so that we finally really help the tourism industry, which today is probably the most vulnerable to all that is wrong, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for what happened when you froze the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u18	Thank you. Mr Artur Dziambor, club, excuse me, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Czarnek, your representative, on the question of why you do not want to give everyone, just want to add to the children again, said: because not everyone goes on vacation. So we're only going to finance the part of the society that you think is driving. Why not for everyone? Because this project is not about saving any tourism. The point is to add up, give another 500+ to an electorate who might have forgotten by now that four years ago you gave him the 500+ that was already there because he's already gotten used to it. It is a standard that people get used to some good that is. As far as 500+ is concerned, not only is it not worth 500 PLN at the moment, the former 500 PLN, because the inflation of the hula, and it is also your merit, but it can be forgotten that it is you who are the benefactors. Because it's true. You do not let us forget this, because every time you remind us that 500+ is law and justice. That's not true, because you're not the only ones who supported it. This 500+ is misorganized. This 500+ is actually a collection of taxes in a very high amount, and then a donation of parts because we're so good. And all we had to do was tax the Poles. If this project, which you are now trying to introduce, is being introduced to save tourism, then why not simply tax entrepreneurs in the tourism industry? Why not even give them 500 PLN, even as tax relief, if you want to stick to these round numbers? You know perfectly well, because from the research it turned out that round numbers of voters react better, because they have this imagination, and actually 500 zlotys is something that works on imagination. What else? You've assigned this to your children because what a beast it takes not to give your children a vacation so that they don't give their children a vacation in this difficult time of coronavirus. Let's save the kids. This is blackmail, this is blackmail from the rest of Parliament, because those who vote against will be finger-pointed as those who didn't give the children. The conspiracy of this blackmail will not surrender. You should tax Poles in the coronavirus, like we said, and you didn't. And now you should tax the tourism industry, which you don't want to do, because you can't take credit for it, just like you did for 500+ by transfer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u20	Thank you very much. The rest of the time will be used by Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u21	Crazes, clichés both ways. On the one hand, children - and why not every PESEL? Why not just increase the tax-free amount? We can accept such things with great heartache, treating it simply as a refund of overpaid taxes, which the state without pity collects. But there's a trick hidden on the other side of this equation. You want this voucher to be realized through, attention, a tourist entrepreneur. A simple man, even a simple Member - not everyone will read that e.g. The hotel manager is no longer a tourist businessman. So, you can't go where you want to go with your electronic bon, you have to let the intermediaries in this business, the tourist offices that we very much support, and we really like the fact that Poles brains, resourcefuls, globetrotters go all the way around the world until their power closes in their own country, but... Mr President, please don't lie to the speaker, read the bill. I'm sure you'll have time, Mr Marshal will make it available, won't you? Mr. Marshal will make it available, so please don't argue with me with such outrageous screams because the chefs are outraged. Why do you despise a cook? Here, in the bleacher, and please object. The thing is, ladies and gentlemen, this is all bribery. Actually, the Central Bureau of Corruption should bend over every bill you've been pushing here in the last weeks, months, because it's corruption. You want to bribe your constituents, you want them to be citizens... No, sir, this is an outrage, what you say. Once again, the Member will shout here. Why don't you come down to the microphone and argue? Let's get to the point, sir. Don't argue with the envoys in the courtroom. Therefore, as regards this next fraudulent bill, I call on the Central Anti-corruption Office and call on all normal Poles to open their eyes to this bribery process, which you have raised to the rank of the main principle of the system of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u22	A group of Members came to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. You are the first question to be asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to thank the President very warmly for this next legislative initiative, another one, because 33. This shows that President Andrzej Duda is very active in legislation. First of all, he cares about his family, which is very much related to the article. 18 constitutions, where we wrote in 1997 that family protection should be protected. I would like to thank you very much for this project and also for this activity. Actions, not words. As was the case with the solidarity supplement, so now once again the president shows credibility, shows activity and once again President Andrzej Duda says: actions, not words. It is worth that this law should be adopted today by the High Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u24	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition Club. That's a great question. At least I wasn't talking about the cooks.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u25	High Izbo! If the PIS were the heart of democracy, it was a place of real debate, today we would proceed here, in this Chamber, two projects: the first, introduced on 9 June by the Civic Coalition Club, a tourist project, and the second, which we are now proceeding, which saw the light of day yesterday at hours. 14. Ladies and gentlemen! Tourist season began in May. We know it was empty. Holidays aren't gonna be what they used to be either. The tourism industry by Coronavirus practically stopped and suffered huge losses. These are unrecoverable losses. The industry is fighting for survival today. The industry is fighting for jobs today. Today we are looking at a project that divides people who divide Poles, so as a Club of the Civic Coalition we will try to put all these good amendments from our project, which does not divide people into better and worse ones, which is part of a programme of new solidarity that will give real support (the bell) so that it becomes a project, an investment that... Thank you very much. ...will stimulate the economy, keep jobs and not share people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u26	Now Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister fought very hard to take over the coalition agreement from the Minister of Sport for Tourism. She got tourism. Four crisis shields, of course, provide solutions for the industry, but specially dedicated to it is not there. Waiting... They're here. Specially dedicated, other than for other entrepreneurs. Of course they are. They were waiting for the presidential campaign. The draft law now drawn up because of the definition of a tourist entrepreneur eliminates from this e.g. Polish Youth Hostel Society not a tourist entrepreneur, non-governmental organizations without the status of OPP, e.g. sports clubs organizing sports camps, PTTK branches. Is it the intention of the designers to deprive these entities of the possibility of using the Polish tourist voucher? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u28	Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u29	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am a citizen of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which has beautiful tourist qualities. I come from the Goblet. In my municipalities, Kruszwica, Great Lakes, all Restaurants and hotelers have a huge problem with the lack of tourists, and there are also financial problems. When I look at the President's initiative, I would like to say that we are dealing with a new five-year-old in three days, because there are so many new initiatives. I would like to ask why pensioners were excluded from this programme, why most citizens were excluded, who would certainly like to get a well-deserved rest, especially during the period following the lockdown pandemic, why 1 000 had been abandoned. zł, why it was limited to 500 zł. I would recommend that these funds be granted to anyone who wants to go on a well-deserved vacation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u30	Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. Member Andrzej Gawron, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I'd like to say hello to all the chefs and chefs so there's no discrimination. Surely this is a worthy profession, we can say, respect. [[Applause]] I think some of the voices that appear in the discussion are a little frivolous. Ladies and gentlemen! The pandemic poses very big challenges for the economy, for you, to save this economy. The President's initiative is absolutely part of the fact that we help entrepreneurs, help Polish families and help people with disabilities. No one in the opposition notices this exactly, but 1000+ is - precisely for people with disabilities, with disabilities, for children. This is also a very important point of this programme, because we help the weakest. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that it is an electronic voucher, that it is not paper, that it is not plastic, is also a very big advantage of this solution. I think we need to think about expanding the scope of the companies that participate in this. That's what I was talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a specific question: How many children will take advantage of these opportunities exactly? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u32	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You promised me $1,000. zł for holidays for all Poles. Then you changed your mind: not everyone, just those earning up to 5200 gross. Now you're talking about 500 PLN and only for families with children. Moreover, this electoral act is to be co-financed by entrepreneurs, who today often cannot afford to cover basic costs, salaries, ZUS, rents or leases. You let 3 billion zlotys into the economy and you say it's supposed to save the industry. However, first of all, this voucher will be implemented for 2 years, so a large part of the money will go to entrepreneurs if they no longer need it, and that is the worst at the moment. Secondly, some of that money would still be on the market. Therefore, you do not add all 3.5 billion PLN. Thirdly, in Krakow tourists spend PLN 6 billion annually. Therefore, this 3.5 billion for 2 years for the whole of Poland is a drop in the sea of needs. You're taking entrepreneurs seriously, unfortunately. If you want to help tourist companies, you need to extend the operation of the aid shield for the next months, communicate your decisions earlier, not in such a way that you open borders and 3 days earlier the industry finds out (the bell) that it can suddenly work. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome. The point is not to do hec like with flights: that you delete at night the ones that are scheduled for the next day. And to finally take care of tourism... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u34	Mr Stefan Krajewski, club of the Polish People's Party. You are Mr Shopiński. You're welcome. I'm sorry, Mr Shopiński is here. It's all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, there are Polish families who unfortunately feel deceived by your President and by the Government of Law and Justice, because in May they were promised that they would receive 1 000 each. zł in the form of a tourist voucher for one working person. Today, for a Polish multigenerational family, which often consists of two adults, parents, pensioners, and two working children, this would mean 4,000. zł for a family holiday together. Meanwhile, thanks to some electoral games these families instead of 4,000. zł they won't get any gold, and other families, called by the statistical government, with two young children only get $1,000 on vacation. zł, which was supposed to be 4. Retired and retired people are asking why they won't get a dime or a dime. The tourism industry from Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, from which I come, was counting on these measures. Unfortunately (the bell) will not receive these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u36	Mr Stefan Krajewski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Can't we afford a system solution? Do we have to use half-measures all the time? Teletombola, vouchers. There used to be fashion vouchers for a small fiat, today you hand out vouchers to the president, the government. And it would be enough for the President to fulfill his 2015 electoral promises. Tax-free amount. Look who's talking. For example, this would help parents, children, to a large extent. For example, a tax-free pension would help grandparents to help their grandchildren. For example, the issue of supporting investments in renewable energy sources for entrepreneurs. It stays for years. From the vouchers you will settle all, because on the one hand there is aid from PFR, and on the other hand there will increase the income of entrepreneurs and there will be no more 75% , only 50 or 25. It's worth thinking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] over a system solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u38	Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! The President of the Republic of Poland, together with the Government of the United Right, always goes out against Polish families, Polish companies. Especially during the pandemic, we see it perfectly. You know that the tourism industry has the biggest problems in the current situation. I thank the President as the applicant for such a wonderful idea, which is a tourist voucher. The President is always offering proposals for Polish families and Polish children. To the Minister, I have a question: Will the tourist voucher not be subject to tax and will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] excluded from any enforcement claims? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u40	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Change the name of the bill. It's not a tourist voucher, it's a promise of cacanki plus. You've been keying from the beginning. First you wanted to rule out people on trash deals, but luckily, as a result of our pressure, you changed that outrageous record, for which you introduced the exclusion of childrenless families. What was the fault of a young couple who did not have a child and whose salary was cut off by Coronavirus? Don't these people deserve to rest? We know why you're so keyed - because public finances are in a catastrophic state. And that's what you're afraid to tell the Poles. You feed us beautiful lies, and the truth is, you can't afford it. And you will see that in a moment at the polls Poles will tell you: we have had enough. [[Applause]] Get to the point. You have to refer to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u42	Mrs Monika Pawłowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the long list of cases we're dealing with in the next campaigns. 500+ for the second child was introduced in the election campaign. The 13th pension was also introduced and twice paid in the election campaign. Same thing with the 300+ program. Now the tourist 500+ is re-entered into the campaign and processed at an express rate of 10 hours just to make it before the election. This is all yours, isn't it? You just didn't have anything to do with the campaign? Isn't that bribing people? This time it is due to the generous President Duda, who is to win at all costs and humbly continue his notary mission in a beautiful palace. Are you still trying to tell me this isn't a campaign project? What guarantee do we have, especially if you lose, that you will not withdraw from this offer? I thought you said $1,000 before. zł. Now it's about $1,000. zł (The bell) left 500 zł. Hopefully there won't be a round zero left out of the promises.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u44	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President! Thank you so much for having this show. I come from a tourist town where there were 10,000. tourists a day, and it's foreign tourists, and I know how the pandemic has affected tourism. But for you on the Platform who only feed on manipulation... You've had enough. I understand. You're sick of being in opposition because you didn't create any groundbreaking program, you just repeat and plagiarize our programs. Like we said, 500+, you said, "Why not every child?" When we gave for every kid, the budget's gonna fall apart. You're proposing pre-election manipulation right now, because you want to give everyone $1,000 each. zł: entrepreneurs... Why not 5,000?? ...children, everyone. Let's give it to everyone. Let's cut taxes. Well, good luck with that. The Government of Law and Justice is the responsible government, responsible for the budget and for the situation of Polish families. Only the Government of Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] real He's gonna lead us through this crisis. [[Applause]] Which he caused himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u46	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ministers, I wanted to ask: Why wouldn't Mr President use this opportunity to really help the hotel industry and the meeting and conference sector? After all, they were the ones who suffered the most from government actions, unprecedented restrictions on civil rights. Experts agree that the growth of individual domestic tourism will not compensate hotels for losses caused by loss of foreign and business tourists, nor will it compensate cities for losses in business tourism. Only in Łódź, in my city, it is about 260 million PLN a year. Sectoral policy is needed, a sectoral shield is needed to support the tourism industry, including meeting and conference sectors. It's about system solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u48	Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the bill presented here. Podhale, where it comes from, is impatient for these solutions. This is an important project that will help tourist companies survive. But when we hear such complaints here, the Jeremy of the Members of the opposition, there are two questions. Do you not remember - do you have as short a memory as I say, a one-day-old bow tie - that 2, 3 months ago we worked here on the next editions, versions of the crisis shield? And don't you know that tourism companies are micro, small, medium and maybe larger companies that can use shields according to the regulations, with subsequent versions of the crisis shield? And then there's the second line. Couldn't you just read this project before you start referring to it? Hotels, tourist accommodation can use the solutions we are discussing here. All you have to do is have your quarters legally notified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that there's a bank account so you can use an electronic voucher. Do you have to be so embarrassed by your ignorance and disenfranchise? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u50	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! On 22 May, the Civic Coalition club sent out a draft Act on Tourist Bone to all clubs in Parliament. It's a bill that talked about a $500 bono for every working person, or a job contract, or... It's about those who pay their taxes. Whether agricultural activity or economic activity - all those who work, who add up, you can say, to the state budget, were to receive a voucher of 500 PLN, even as in this project, in electronic form. We are pleased that you are drawing inspiration from our projects. This is a good signal for us, especially since the main purpose of the tourist voucher was to help Polish tourism companies. However, a few questions arise. Why so selective? After all, really, really, this will include a very small number of families, because for example. people with a small child who are going to their grandparents on holiday will not get any money, and above all they will not get their students (the bell), nor will many people who work and will get nothing from the state again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u52	Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear here from the Members of the PiS about the great responsibility of the government, the President, in connection with this bill that we are proceeding today. Well, I want to disappoint you very much. This is not an expression of responsibility, but rather the opposite. Is it responsible that the state at first promised to Poles 1 000 each. Evil, and you give 500 zlotys, and that's not all? Why do you not, by proceeding on this project, examine our project, which shows new solidarity, divides Poles into better and worse ones, those to whom they belong, and those to whom they are not due? [[Applause]] We're talking about how it should be the same for everyone. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, looking at what you are proposing, I would like to tell you that the Poles are very disappointed with your proposal, both citizens and the tourism industry, because it does not respond to their needs. I understand that the purpose of this project was what was included in the explanatory memorandum (The Bell), in the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum. It is about fulfilling the President's promises from the election campaign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u54	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project late. This is a campaign project. If there was no election campaign today, this project probably wouldn't have happened. This project divides again. Doesn't the President care about pensioners or people with disabilities or those who don't have children, but work very hard today and barely make ends meet? It shouldn't be like this. Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, since we all know that the tourism industry is in a very difficult situation, let the government use one more element, the one at its disposal, the so-called one. fiscal policy. Let's just slow down some of these workers, some of these tax departments, because we know that the tourism industry brings very high income for Poland, but also creates many jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u56	Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question is: Do we need to be reminded that Warsaw and the President's law firm are on the ground? We all know that. Trzaskowski made a wooden island. What's the matter? I quickly sent the bill to the people who are involved in maritime transport. Well? Unfortunately, in their opinion, this project excludes entities such as Gdansk Shipping, Circuit Shipping, Mazurska Shipping, Szczecin Shipping, Elbląg Canal operator. All these entities are Polish companies. What's the problem? The point is, for example. Gdansk sailing does not provide, does not organize tourist events and is not a tourist company. Therefore, a specific article is required to be amended, I am referring to the article. 5, adding the wording that this voucher also includes an entrepreneur carrying out passenger transport on domestic voyages within the meaning of the safety regulations [[♪ The bell ♪]] maritime or inland waterway vessels referred to in the IWT Act. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u58	Please, now Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the proposal is calculated for Andrzej Duda's campaign has already happened many times, and that it divides and does not connect - this too. But to be specific. On 20 March, I sent my interpellation to the Prime Minister asking for action in favour of the tourism industry and pointing out how dramatic the situation is. I was assured on April 15 that the work was ongoing, that meetings were held and that there would be a proposal. So? Three months have passed and it's gone because the voucher you're proposing doesn't solve this problem in any way. And then there's the second line. The original vouchers were supposed to be $1,000. zł and were directed towards a wider group. And it's gone again. My question is: Where are the unlimited amounts of cash that Glapiński was talking about? Where is this wonderful budgetary situation that Morawiecki was talking about? And where are they? [[♪ The bell ♪]] these real solutions for the tourism industry? [[Applause]] You have to read with understanding. Not a chance. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u60	Thank you very much. Please take the floor and ask Mr Piotr Boris for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u61	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Nearly PLN 62 billion according to the CUS is the income of Polish tourism. That's close to 4%. GDP. 28 billion leave Poles, nearly 45 billion - tourists from abroad. To save Polish tourism, we cannot share it. Your bill is like a sieve: it only helps some people, it is incomplete. That is why today we call on all countries in this Parliament, including the Senate, to take into account all Poles: students, working people who have children over the age of 18, people who are single, farmers and pensioners. Everyone deserves a good rest. Therefore, if this law is to save on the one hand the tourism industry and, on the other hand, allow equal treatment of all Poles, it must be available to all. You promised in previous announcements that this bill would go to a wider group of our compatriots. You didn't complete it, you changed your mind during the campaign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is simply unforgivable, which is why we will appeal for the addition of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u62	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before you start thinking about tourism, think about what is today's problem with tourism. Before you think about giving 500 zlotys each, notice that you have huge gaps in defrosting, because today yacht crews are being sent to quarantine, ships arriving at ports. Yesterday there was a situation that after the ports in Gdynia, Helu wandered yachts, which from international waters enter Polish ports. The crews are being sent to quarantine. And that's the problem. All the crews will be back soon, all the boats from Sweden have been convinced since June 13 that the borders are open and quarantine is lifted. These yachts will be coming back, which is already being alarmed by the Petty Officers on the Coast, mostly from Sweden. People will be sent to quarantine. And that's the approach to tourism. You've got holes in your system. As usual, nothing works well when it comes to lifting quarantine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you guys do first. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u64	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Minister, there are suggestions from the room that the tourism industry has only the support of this voucher. On the other hand, I would like to ask what resources have already gone to entrepreneurs. Is it true that entrepreneurs, including the tourism industry, can benefit from many other instruments? I would like the Minister here to present what measures have already gone to entrepreneurs and how the tourism industry is powered. On the other hand, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the President for this further instrument of support for both entrepreneurs and Polish families, especially children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u66	Thank you very much. If Mr Ireneusz Raś is in the Chamber, and he is, we ask him to speak in order to formulate his proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u67	Thank you, Marshal. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to make a proposal to send this bill back not only where your Marshal proposes, but also to the industry committee, i.e. Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism. [[Applause]] It's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u68	Thank you very much, sir. The Senior Convention will be held shortly, where a decision will be taken on this issue. I would like the floor of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today we are discussing the industry, which is important, and I agree with Mr Rasi, an element of the Polish economic landscape. Last year we had a record growth in GDP - 6.9%. These are the record growths that this industry is experiencing in our governments, Mr President. This is over 1,300,000 jobs, so 8% professionally active Poles. My question, my doubts, is that, since the Member is so widely and actively presenting his plans here today, as he showed his activity at a time when the Civic Platform was shaping public policies. What was the offer then? [[Applause]] Bravo! We built the infrastructure. I don't recall. Moreover, the President of the Polish Chamber of Tourism has said a lot today about the fact that the request for a tourist voucher has been submitted for years and has never been fulfilled. So today we are talking about what the situation is and whether it is a project tailored to the tourism industry. I will focus primarily on this element and this thread. I will raise my doubts about why the tourism industry has waited so long. That's an interesting remark, by the way. When presenting the fourth edition of the shield here, gentlemen and Members were accusing us of why we are correcting another bill, why we did not make one perfect one. That's why, from April 1st, the aid would go to the market immediately. Not after six months, as in 2008 and 2009, when several hundred companies disappeared from the Polish landscape, but to immediately reach the companies. [[Applause]] In the first shield, which entered into force on 1 April, we had, sir, a solution made according to the tourism industry, immediately. We've set aside 180 days of opportunity... I was talking about that. I'm not talking to the Member. I am speaking to a Member who has pointed out that it is only today. No, in the first shield we had a 180-day delay for the necessary reimbursement for events that would not take place. Of course, this is a temporary solution and it is not the last solution we have for the tourism industry, with which we meet regularly every 2, 3 days in the last 3 weeks. For them, we're sewing further solutions, and I'll talk about them in a minute. First of all, we've already had solutions in the first shield. Secondly, I answer the question from the Member, more than 15 000 have benefited from the solutions available since 1 April. companies in the tourism industry. From the financial shield to the tourism industry 4 billion PLN has already flowed. This is the biggest support for the tourism industry since 1989. [[Applause]] Do you, my fellow Members, know what public funds from local governments, from Mr Mishalski Krakow, mentioned... They don't know. What does the Krakow shield look like to support tourism, what does the Warsaw shield or the Gdańsk shield look like? Even better. She's zero today. These cities haven't offered anything... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Scandal! ...as opposed to Prague, unlike Vilnius, as opposed to Portuguese Lisbon. There's nothing there. But we don't look at it, we don't look at local governments. We are preparing our solutions. Minister, could you please... A moment of peace, please. It's like the Minister interrupts for a moment... Not yet. May the President of Warsaw finally move. I continue to answer your questions and concerns that have arisen. The beneficiaries of the shield will be all operators operating within the tourism area. It will be a widely understood accommodation base: from agrotourism to hotels, directly, they are included in the bill, and any other tourist offers offered by tour operators. Each single tourist service that will be financed is enshrined in this Act. You are welcome to use the bill, please read it. All tourist entrepreneurs, i.e. any entrepreneur within the meaning of the Civil Code, as well as those who carry out paid activities, will be able to benefit from this bonus. So the beneficiaries will be e.g. organizers - because you also asked about these - cultural events, artistic events, if they are part of the package, also restaurants, not directly, but it is not a random solution. We have looked at similar solutions in Hungary, Bulgaria, France (The Bell) and Italy. That's where gastronomy doesn't get separately. We just wouldn't want this bon to be spent spending in fast food. Finally, the organisers of children's recreation, NGOs, those who organize sports camps, scout camps - parents will be able to send their children on such trips. Doubt I'd like to convey... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's not true. We're on our way to the end. I would also like to say hello to the President of PTTK, who is already preparing an offer for a travel voucher today, because the PTTK hostels will also benefit from this voucher. Thank you very much. We talked about this just today with the Sejm. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we know what the problem is with the tourism industry. We know she's been quarantined since the first day since March 11th... You're the problem. Minister, thank you very much. ...she suffered the most because that's when the first cancellations of tourist events began. At the same time, as I said, it is a very diverse industry: from individual business activities, pilots, guides, tour operators, foreign trips, hotelers and agrotourism and campsites. Each of them has different needs and other problems. Prime Minister, we are on our way to conclusion. We addressed all these problems in the financial shield. The multiplier effect, as you say, is the multiplier effect. So this voucher will support the economy and work in real terms in the economy. The fact that the parity... The division proposed by your President concerns families, which means that more than 59% this aid goes to the poorest part of the Polish society. Do any of you really want to question the basis of this gift? I find it hard to imagine that one of you would say that this aid is to be distributed in a different way. Thus, this is a rational instrument of support in extraordinary times, because pandemic time is sometimes unusual, sewn according to the tourism industry, the local tourist base and those who need this support most, i.e. families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u70	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! In the first place, we should refer to this magical project with a tourist check. What does it say? Nothing, actually. It is not known what rules it will be granted. Yes, there's a ring of beneficiaries, but there's a mythological application that's gonna do it. Unfortunately, all the details about this... Read the project. ...who will be able to obtain it, under what rules, how registration will take place, who will be responsible for it - all this has been sent back to regulation by regulation. The problem is that this delegation to regulate various absolutely different things in the regulation is purely blank, and however you look at it, Article. 92 of the Polish Constitution clearly indicates what elements should be. Few of this, the Polish constitution, which you so often refer to, clearly indicates: what concerns income, is to be regulated in the law, and that is not there. As to Mr Kosiniak-Kamish's statement: the lack of differentiation actually took place. Equalisation of retirement age up to 67 years - actually hit the jackpot, complete lack of differentiation. [[Touchdown, applause]] Get to the point. By answering all questions about support for the tourism industry: it will support Polish companies and those that operate in Poland. It's not so, it's the Seym. Minister, please stop for a moment. We'll wait for the room to calm down a little bit. Mr. Marshal, it's not so, it's the Polish Sejm. I would ask the Minister to answer questions, not talk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There you go. Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: It will support companies that provide tourist services in Poland. And what the Prime Minister rightly pointed out here: their organizational formula does not matter. They will also be companies that provide these services in the form of a public benefit organisation - hence PTTK will also be able to benefit from it - as well as companies that will organize various kinds of events. As regards the circle of beneficiaries, it is estimated that at this moment there are about 6.4 million children entitled to benefit from the voucher, with about 300,000 children. Children with disabilities will receive an additional voucher which will enable them to use tourist services. It is important, however, that this is a system solution. At the conference, which took place just before the meeting of the Sejm, the Prime Minister pointed out: if this bon works out, if it really is good support for Polish tourism companies, there is a chance that it will continue in the future. It is what the Prime Minister said and what we heard at this conference from representatives of the tourism industry: since 2001 they have been calling for this form of support for the tourism industry in Poland. It's worth remembering. [[Applause]] As for the value of the voucher itself - the coalition project does not completely indicate whether it will be exempt from tax, whether it will be included in the income on which the entitlement to acquire other benefits depends. It is clear from the President's proposal: he is tax-free, as stated in the article. 40 of this project, free from bail-out, not included in the amount of income that will be taken into account when granting various types of benefits - Article. 45. [[Applause]] June is. The kids are already on vacation. On the other hand, the President consistently implements his policy of support for Poles, for Polish families. An excellent example of this is the signing of the laws that introduced the thirteenth pension, the 500+ programme, which came into force in 2016. Help the franchise. Accommodation+. Moreover, the tax-free amount was actually increased to 8 000. zł. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, what is this? Those who earn this amount of income do not pay tax at all. It is also worth noting that similar solutions exist in other countries and are excellent support for the local tourism industry. It is also very important that this is a project to support and support Polish families in organizing leisure activities, and entrepreneurs who provide tourist services in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u72	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Ireneus Raś. You said, now you're making a misunderstood statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to say that there has never been direct support for the tourism industry in Poland. This is a project that is discussed for the first time in the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] Bravo! But the first project that was presented was the Civil Coalition project on 22 May. Because you talked about him for months, but you didn't prepare him. And I would like to say this: if you think that this mechanism is pro-economic, Minister, and you think that our idea is bad, you do not really understand the problems of Polish tourism that it is struggling with today. Mr. Marshal, this was supposed to be a corrigendum. Is that a correction? It's weak. I know you only understand the problems of your boss, who has a re-election problem today. [[Applause]] Sit down! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u74	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the bill to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in addition. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in a moment. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 46 hours 12 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 3: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Crisis Management Act and some other laws, print No 203 and 405. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as we will be voting in a moment, let me re-check the quorum. In that case, I ask all Members to press any button so that we can check whether we have a quorum. You're welcome. The session shall be attended by 416 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the draft Polish Tourist Bone Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the bill to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in addition. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal for an opinion by the Sejm Bureau has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. 435 Members voted. 201 - for, 232 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on Government and Senate drafts of laws amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund (prints Nos 418, 283 and 419). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - the report is a print no. 419 - on the government bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, print no. 418, and on the Senate bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, print no. 283. High Izbo! It is a very expected law, especially by people from the year 1953. Ladies and gentlemen! We have witnessed many times how the Civic Platform, especially during the election period, made promises to Poles without covering. And so was the promise made in 2011 of not raising the retirement age, broken just after the elections. The extent to which the retirement age of Poles and Poles was increased was... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Excuse me, Member. I would ask you to move the discussion outside the Parliamentary Chamber so that you can present the draft. There you go. The increase in the retirement age of Poles and Poles was due to the legal bubble, which significantly reduced the pension benefits of people from the year 1953. The 2012 Act had many disadvantages, the main was equalisation, raising the retirement age to 67 years of age. And it's not only broken promises, but also, I think, planned savings on pensioners. Let us remind you that bridge pensions were abolished, retirement age increased, wanted Poles to work until they died. The benefits of early retirement and the loss of Poles from 153 billion collected at OFE were greatly underestimated. A social contract has been broken, citizens' confidence in the state has been undermined. Today we correct these errors, implement the ruling of the Constitutional Court and follow the constitutional principle of equality before the law, we also include men of the year 1953. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 16 June 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the draft Print Act No 418 sent to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with Article. 37 (1) and Article 37 (1) Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the draft printing law No 283 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading on 20 March 2020. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering these draft laws after the meeting yesterday, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u76	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teresa Wargock will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft laws amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, the Senate in print No 283 and the Government in print No 418, and the report of the Social Policy and Family Committee in print No 419. Both projects shall comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 6 March 2019 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The FUS Pension Act in so far as it concerns women born in 1953 who, before 1 January 2013, acquired the right to early retirement under Article. 46 in conjunction with Article. 29 of this law, with Article. 2 constitutions. In the Court's view, the principle of citizens' confidence in the state and the rule of law must not create traps for citizens. And that's what happened in that situation. The law in force since 2013 has led women who have gone to early retirement to take this decision without knowing that they have been financed from their contributions since then and thus reduce their pension capital. At the time of retirement, these pensions were lower, much lower. This non-compliance with the Constitution, above all this basis for citizens' confidence in the state, in the rule of law, is being removed. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the solution that will result in pensions being re-calculated and differences paid, i.e. the loss that has taken place over the years. We had quite a long discussion about these projects. One can say that a country from the opposition, as always, especially from the Civic Platform - and it is us, Members of the Law and Justice, for this reason, I will tell you honestly, quite sorry and uncomfortable - at the meeting of this committee they referred the charges to the Law and Justice that too late, too little that not so, otherwise. All of you, when you're in opposition, to do things differently, only you're, uh, sorry, 8 years old. You couldn't save money on pensioners, you couldn't reach into their pockets. The economic crisis could be dealt with in a completely different way. Now you see how the government is approaching the crisis. And the country with stubborn maniacs in the case of a group of pensioners who really don't have high benefits, you have implemented your belt tightening policy. You have already told President Ruseck about the retirement age. Millions, hundreds of millions of dollars left in the budget. Women, men, 67 years old. 3 million signatures to the basket. It's just a crisis, we're hitting the pensioners. And you hit him. We changed that. The first year of our governments, the rule of law and justice, the United Right, and Mr Duda's support for this project. We didn't ruin the budget. The old retirement age has returned. Jump on the OFE. Another 150 billion written into ZUS accounts. Even the tribunal patted it on you, even though you took the money, even though the citizens thought they had it in their own accounts as their property. We brought it back, we changed it, we wiped out OFE. Each citizen will decide whether he wants to have money in the Social Security Office or in a private account where we have legally guaranteed that these are private funds, measures that can be available after retirement age. You saved up on those women. You'll see how much it is. You have to pay out, get $3 billion when it comes to this injustice. Today you say it's a mistake, an oversight, a failure. I doubt that. And one more point. This judgment was delivered by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019 about which you, the opposition, say: the tribunal of doubles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This tribunal is the guardian of the Constitution, and even hard decisions are taken in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. The state's extraordinary caste tribunal has clapped to OFE. The Court is the Republic of Poland, not the States. Ladies and gentlemen, you've done two tribunals: doubles and the real one. And you didn't back out of it. Time, Marshal. Thank you very much for speaking. This tribunal is on the side of the law, on the side of justice and on the side of women. Neither law nor justice. Even the consistency of your name doesn't work. Thank you very much. Don't make a fuss. And today, don't play with your emotions that you forced anything on Law and Justice because you would have done it and given everything. That's not true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. The Civic Coalition. I'm so sorry, Civil Coalition. But it's Polish.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u78	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! When important changes are being worked on, especially in the pension system, mistakes can be made. This was the case in 2012. But the important thing is to be able to admit mistakes. It's even more important to be able to fix them. The Civic Platform, which we have heard so much about my previous speaker, has always respected the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. During our two term of office, we have caught up with decisions that have been raised by the rule of law and justice in 2005 and 2007 of almost 200. And now we move on to the judgment that the Constitutional Tribunal gave. In fact, the Constitutional Tribunal ordered women, especially those of the 1953 Yearbook, who simply did not receive in due time information from the Social Insurance Institution regarding their amount of benefits and pension applications. But we, knowing that we had made a mistake, wanted to correct it as soon as possible. It was the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, that the senators not only requested this project, but they prepared these projects themselves. Yes, ladies and gentlemen... Oh, one more thing. When President Andrzej Duda spoke loudly about the fact that he was lowering the retirement age back, then these women, pensioners just from 1953, asked, begged, wrote: if you take this back, you change this bill, you lower the age, and by the way fix this mistake. But then it was like throwing peas against a wall. Because there was no election campaign back then. Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2016, petition in the Sejm requesting that this error be corrected, rejected by the votes of Law and Justice. In 2017, the same petition in the Senate, also rejected by the votes of Law and Justice. In 2019 the senators adopted an appropriate project, even without reservation of your government, and this project was even sent to the Sejm in September 2019 and was even on the agenda. We were to proceed on it in this House, but at the request of Prime Minister Morawiecki, this project was abolished and not proceded. But the resources weren't there. We didn't give up. Already a new Senate in this term of office, in December he prepared another bill, which had entered the High House, actually to your marshal. And what happens, ladies and gentlemen, when he comes in? Well, come on, he wasn't actually here until today. Mr. Marshal, Senator Marek Borowski has been three times instigating the Marshal of the High Sejm, Marshal Witek, to allow this project to be discussed. But it didn't. And what did it take for this project to be really procededed? Yeah, you had to campaign. It was necessary to support the President-in-Office Andrzej Duda with falling posts. You just remembered those pensioners. So let's hope there are more election campaigns and falling poll posts. [[Applause]] But I don't think that's what they want to hear about the retired women who are waiting for this project. We, of course, will vote in favour of this project as the Civic Coalition. On the other hand, we also make three amendments. We see no reason why the recalculation of these pensions is to take place only six months after the date of entry into force of the Act. We believe that this period should be reduced to at least 3 months. We also believe that the circle of people to whom these pensions are reduced due to the amounts previously collected must be extended so that women in 1949 or 1952 can apply for more favourable benefits, as some of them have already received judgments in favour of their higher benefits, applying for them in common courts. We are convinced that if we do not accept such amendments, sooner or later - the Minister confirmed this yesterday at the committee meeting - these people from the new yearbooks will simply submit with the same claims. Enough of that, they'll be right. If we fix this mistake here and now [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're going to widen this circle of people, and today's costs are going to be much lower than those that are going to be incurred in some time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President, who presented the position of the Civic Coalition Club. I now ask the floor of Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you read this bill, what you're trying to say is finally. Finally, after many months and a total of years of struggle between organisations, social movements, trade unions and, above all, the victims of this flawed amendment of the 2013 Act, the situation is slowly moving towards its proper regulation. The need for the proposed law is not only due to the need to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but, above all, to the failure of the applicable rules on pension proceedings. On the one hand, It is very worrying that only more than a year after the Court's judgment, this case has been implemented. I'm sure if it weren't for the presidential election and the willingness to get every vote, she'd still be lying still in the seym freezer. On the other hand, unfortunately, we are already getting used to this - express submission of this topic last Wednesday in the Sejm and the organisation of an instant meeting of the Social Policy Committee justify that this topic is strictly electoral. Mistakes may be made again or there may be a failure to see the rules that will have to be changed. And mistakes, as life shows, can be made, because this project unfortunately does not include everyone in the name of the principle of social justice. After all, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the principle of citizens' trust in the state and the rights which they establish has been violated. It means necessity in each, we repeat, in each case ensuring the legal security of the individual, and the law cannot be a trap for the citizen. So that he can put his affairs in confidence that he is not exposed to legal effects that he could not foresee at the time of these decisions. Such a possibility was deprived of a group of persons born in 1953, which reached the general retirement age between February 2013 and April 2014, i.e. at the time when the Article was in force. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1d. Furthermore, we believe that it would be more appropriate to define the scope of the subjective law without the restriction resulting from the reference to year 1953, because recourse to the Constitutional Court and to the principle of trust in the State and the rights it provides can also be applied to insured persons from other yearbooks who have decided to retire early, trusting that the State will not change the rules for the payment of the general pension benefit. I am therefore handing over to the Marshal the amendment to the Left Club concerning the application of the mechanism to move the final decisions concerning the amendment of the article. 114 laws. It allows the person concerned to revoke or amend the decision because of faults without limitation of time if, as a result of the repeal or amendment of the decision, the person concerned acquires the right to a higher benefit or benefit. We want to prevent the problems faced by people born in 1953 in the future. Despite the belief that this mode is inappropriate, the Left will vote in favour of this project because we believe that a group of pensioners and pensioners is still the most disadvantaged and poor social group to be supported. We do not accept any inequality in this matter, because we want justice, and there are many more groups that should be dealt with immediately: those who are disabled, their carers who receive charity, rather than support, could probably be replaced, because we should not wait any longer. We would like to propose that, after the entry into force of this law, the procedure for granting benefits should not be a complex and complex procedure again. We ask that the rules and decisions be simplified against those who have already been harmed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You didn't clap.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u81	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Agnieszka Ścigaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my opinion on behalf of the Polish Coalition to the government project and the Senate bill on amending the Act on Pensions. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 6 March 2019 is a valid judgment and, of course, the project is as expected and justified as possible, advocated by the disadvantaged group of women, but also men, from the year 1953. It's a good thing it's being implemented right now. In order to clarify the judgment of the Constitutional Court, such justification is given. The Constitutional Tribunal refers to the principle of trust in the State, stresses that the law cannot be a trap, the privilege cannot be a trap. The creation of such a right, which is a privilege, because undoubtedly women from 1953 retired earlier, it was a privilege, must be preceded by full information about all the financial consequences. This justification leads to deeper reflection and I think that this reflection should apply to the whole pension system. Is the uncertainty that at this point... Can young people entering the pension system and earlier generations, including my generation, be sure about their work, their contributions, their retirement, what will happen along the way, what will be the election campaign, or what will change? After all, we have a lot of these situations, because if the whole system is based on surrogacy and those who are now entering this system know that for these 20, 30 years this surrogacy is simply not going to happen, then can they have confidence in the state and in this system? Absolutely not, because as we sit here, or at least my generation isn't sure, just like it wasn't sure and open pension funds, and the changes in the various previous possibilities, and the fact that our pensions... We don't know what they're gonna look like. Isn't this a reflection that should be a broader reflection, a topic of cross-party discussions on the change of the pension system, which is absolutely inefficient? Wasn't such a trap something that hasn't been fixed so far, such as. that mothers who take care of children with disabilities, mothers with so-called. EWK, they went to retirement, and after a while there was a possibility of another benefit, and mothers who look after children, and this happened later, have other care benefits, have higher amounts, and their pensions are still lower? Wasn't that a trap? mentioned here by the states - is it - a reduction in the retirement age? Right, because it was according to the will of the nation, but did you complete the state, give information, complete information, or was it possible to tell people what their pensions would look like? 2010 - at the lowest pension we have 71 000. people, in 2019 - 270 thousand. People who have retired now have the lowest pension. Let me add that this pension is still below the poverty line, which is still not enough for a self-life. Isn't that the way it should be, I mean. prior information about the consequences of political decisions rather than doing something from to? This is what I am calling for, and this is what the Coalition of Poland is calling for right now, in order to actually bend over over the pension system over and over again, because it is absolutely inefficient and does not give the generations a sense of security, especially to those who are now entering this defective system. I will remind you of one unfulfilled sentence, and that is also the principle, there is no feeling of instability. 5 years have passed, almost 6 years, since the failed judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which refers to the guardians of persons with disabilities. This judgment was preceded by a request from Members of the Law and Justice, who at the time thought it was unfair. They've been in charge for five years now, and they haven't thought so for five years now, so they've chosen a specific sentence, and that sentence, which also applies, has been at their request, so far haven't been fulfilled. I don't know why. Why, if we're talking about the principle of justice, fixing the state, as you say, you don't want to... Perhaps this is too small a group of voters and this group can be omitted. We've got to lean on it. But now we have a specific question, because we also make our vote dependent on the answer. It's about the question you asked. Please state whether these principles, which are contained in this Act, will be based on taking into account the amounts of pension contributions, initial capital and life expectancy corresponding to the current age of persons entitled to benefits. Honestly, the creation of confusing years, as well as this time, pension rights and the division of groups due to different conversion methods [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right. There's no answer. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u83	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mr Michael Urbaniak, who will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u84	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is my honor to present the position of the Confederation. Well, something else is worth paying attention to in this project. Poland has been basically on the threshold of the collapse of the pension system for years, it must be made clear. The system that we have today is rightly based on the assumption that if there is generation substitution, if demographic growth is positive, then the system will be efficient. Today we're actually facing another problem. In a moment, the system on which we are based, this pay-as-you-go system, will be a completely inefficient pension system. The previous ruling team changed the rules of the game during it, which concerned thousands of Poles, and only the Constitutional Tribunal verified it, felt it could not be like this. Here we are talking about the 2013 records. It is right to clean up the mess - here I turn to a good change - but, ladies and gentlemen, it will still only be patching a hole in this very broken dress, from which there may be nothing left. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Confederation, there is a need, above all, for systemic changes. We need to change the system based on high contributions. Since today we add to the ZUS system from the budget, it may be worth considering simply eliminating ZUS. Both the governments of the already discredited Civic Platform and the so-called one. good changes, robbed Poles of some of their savings in the context of their changes: at OFE, with pension contributions. I'm sure the Poles will sort you out eventually. So I'm asking you. : Does the government even understand the long-term problem that the pay-as-you-go system is not a bottom-up system, and sooner or later it will fall? We are also proposing an alternative at this point: we should change the pension scheme and move on to a citizen's pension, where everyone will get one, the same pension when the retirement age is reached. This may be a low pension, because we are talking about an amount that will simply allow us to survive, but thanks to this will be released the contributions of Poles who will be able to save money themselves. Thanks to this, what we call the third-pillar system today is simply the basis for every Pole's retirement. When we are also talking about the pension system, we should remember the demography. It is almost inseparable, these two areas always go hand in hand. Is the government really planning a comprehensive prodemographic program at all? We know it's hard. We know that support posts do not always indicate that something is worth doing today, but maybe it is worth considering. Kindergartens, kindergartens, family benefits - this is the direction in which you should go. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Eleven Members have signed up to ask questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. And first of all, I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And here we have another act of such a pre-election legislative run, of course from the government, which suddenly reminds itself of its late work and declarations. Only that I am not entirely sure, judging by the actions taken so far, whether this declaration and the mode of work are real, primarily aimed at the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, I will remind you that in 4/5 of the composition composed of constitutionally elected judges, whether it is merely a pre-election appearance. I am moved by these doubts that at the end of last term, when this project could have been implemented, Prime Minister Morawiecki stopped his work only to put this project away on a discount basis. Now the records that are in the project that about 6 months [[♪ The bell ♪]] They reject its entry into force, and others which restrict its application, also call into question and undermine trust in the applicants' real intentions. I'm talking about the government, not the Senate, of course, who wants to make things right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u87	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Yesterday, when the Social Policy and Family Committee adopted this bill, many ladies wrote to us, recognising... I quote these opinions: it seems reasonable to guarantee uniform rules for the reimbursement of benefits owed to the entitled. The Constitutional Tribunal drew attention to this need. Those rules should take into account the valorisation of pension contributions and initial capital and the life expectancy of persons entitled to benefits that is adequate to the current age. Only then will the entire 1953 yearbook be treated equally, as recommended by the Court. And then four expectations are reported. I would kindly ask the Minister to explain in his speech as a person who also represented the Sejm, as far as I know, before the Constitutional Tribunal and who is responsible for these issues today (the Ring) in a clear way whether the draft adopted by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs is implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal directly or whether these doubts still arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u89	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address my questions to the representatives of the government, and they relate to the government project. First of all, where were you when last December a Senate bill was sent to the Sejm on pensions of women of the year 1953? Where were you when your marshal made the decision to put this senate project in the freezer? Why didn't we hear any vote of support from you then, there was no desire to start this project as soon as possible? Secondly, why are you only submitting your bill today? Isn't that political and electoral? Why did Mateusz Morawiecki only remember about the 1953 retirees? Let us add that this law does not fully meet the expectations of the pensioners of the year 1953 because we do not really know whether the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 6 March 2019 will be implemented in 100%. In particular, we do not know whether all the ladies of the 1953 year will be treated in a uniform, fair way and whether they will have [[♪ The bell ♪]] Guaranteed uniform rules for the conversion and reimbursement of outstanding benefits. Will there be appropriate regulations for this to happen? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u91	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. I can't see. So now I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u92	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The discussion shows how delicate this problem is, how mistakes can be made if you are emotional about something, especially at a time like this when we have an election campaign. The women of 1953 were the last to be able to retire early on preferential terms. But what's happening today? Today we have a drama about social security, about the amount of pensions. Last year, 55,000 arrived. persons who receive them and who have additionally joined the group who receive benefits lower than the lowest pension benefits. And this trend is going to escalate. It's very dangerous. We need decisive action. Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz - presidential candidate says: pension without tax. Is there a civic project? There it is. You have to think about it, re-schedule it and bring it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about exempting working pensioners from tax. This is important, this is important, but my question is moving towards... Someone's already talked about it here. Will all persons born in 1953 be subject to the same conditions? Because there are voices that according to the law, people who have appealed will be treated differently on the court road. I don't think there should be any variation here. I would ask the Minister very much, because it is complicated matter to explain this matter, and he best gave me the answer in writing, because there are a lot of questions. And I would ask you very much to take your time, because the elections here are not important, but to make a good bill, otherwise we will later improve it several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u93	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Mirosław Suchon in the Chamber, so I ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition, to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of recalculating pensions for people in the year 1953 should have been dealt with long ago. Only when the election campaign came up, only when the polls had become unfavorable to Andrzej Duda, did you suddenly recall this law, after more than a year after the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. According to the Supreme Auditorium last year, you spent almost PLN 400 million on awards and bonuses. In turn, over 62 thousand are waiting for these changes. people who receive an average of PLN 202 more every month and equalization. They're expecting way more than that. Why did you keep them waiting for over a year? If you care so much about Poles, then why didn't you take advantage of the Senate bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who executes the judgment of the Constitutional Court? How embarrassing are you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u95	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I have one brief question. I would like to know why the women of the 1953 year are to be hostages to your campaign and your electoral promises. There were disputes about the Constitutional Tribunal here. I have the impression that it is perfectly normal that in democratic countries the Constitutional Tribunal is dealing with the correction of legislative errors. This judgment of the Court of Justice is of March 2019. Since then, women for whom this sentence was favourable have knocked on the door of our parliamentary offices, appealed to you here, and nothing has been done in this matter. And only now, during the election campaign, despite the fact that the Civic Coalition submitted such a project in the Senate - in the Sejm we did not do it at all - less than 2 weeks, 1.5 weeks before the presidential election we discuss it in the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why have you been so deaf to these women's affairs for so long? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u97	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The lack of regulation has caused nearly 80,000 harm. Women. It's very good that we're trying to make this right. But is it really? Because where the essence of this bill is, there's more confusion than facts. First thing, moved by a lot of people. The explanatory memorandum states that only about 60,000. women will benefit, colloquially speaking, from these statutory changes. Why the Over 40% Isn't he gonna benefit? There's anxiety again. Instead of calming down and finally giving hope to all women, there's still some inequality. There's more to it than that. We have heard that the difference will be paid. Yeah, but how will that difference be counted? After all, when it comes to pensions, every penny is revalued. So how do we do that? Is it gonna be okay? [[♪ The bell ♪]] specially paid? The women I spoke to say that the sum they should receive is tens of thousands of zlotys. I ask you, Minister, to bring these facts closer to us, and to calm those women who have lived with a sense of harm for so many years from this stand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u99	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's very good that we're investigating this bill. Whether it's a campaign or not, such good laws must be adopted. In recent months, I have had many meetings with people who have come to the Parliamentary Office, and this is the case that they have said that this needs to be resolved. Of course, it can be said that there was a Senate project that was not considered here, but if, ladies and gentlemen, you have no responsibility for the budget, it is easy to submit various draft laws, but you still have to look to what these laws cost. And the mistake, as we know, was made in 2013. Minister! I have a specific question: What will be the average increase for people from this year 1953? I understand there's going to be equals, too. What will be the average of this compensation for those covered by the Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u101	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u102	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! First basic question: Why did it take so long to wait until the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2019 was delivered? It was the basis for reopening the proceedings, to change the decisions of the Social Security Office. The Constitutional Tribunal explicitly declared the provisions of the 1953 Yearbook to be non-constitutional. These 66-year-old women today have pensions up to 30% lower than women one year older or younger, who have worked as much in similar positions. Did the women of 1953 have to wait until the presidential election? Why are you trying to catch up at the last session of the Sejm? It's really unworthy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those women worked hard. We're making amends today. But why so late, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u103	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So now I ask Mr Stanisław Swede, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this discussion. We touch a very difficult and sensitive matter, which is the pension system. I think that many of the questions that were asked here were also due to the misunderstanding of this system, which is functioning in Poland. Of course, we would have avoided the whole debate and the whole problem if a fatal solution had not been adopted in 2012, because it was a fatal solution that caused this problem of the year 1953 not to be solved and today we are solving it in some way. First thing. It is also worth recalling that the Act entered into force in 2013. The Court delivered its ruling in 2019 after a very long period of operation of the provision. The Constitutional Tribunal did not dispute the mere reduction of the pension, but questioned that the entry into force of this law caused that women of the 1953 year had no possibility, because they had no such awareness or knowledge, to make a different decision than it was due to the rules, i.e. they were kind of surprised. In this respect, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that this was incompatible with the Constitution. That's another note to this whole problem we're dealing with. The solution we have proposed solves the problem of the 1953 yearbook, both women and men, because we have also added men in this recipe. How will this work in practice? Because there were also questions about the six-month period of vacathio legis. Those who have retired early and who have become a general pension will be paid out of office by the Social Insurance Institution to compensate for the loss of income, which amounts to more than 12 000. PLN, and additionally added to the pension on average over 200 PLN. Everyone, of course, to a different extent, because there were different moments of retirement. So we're talking about an average. Those people who didn't have the right to early retirement at all... Of course, those who went into this early retirement on an old basis had higher pensions, because we have to say that they functioned on an old system. Some of the people who will not be covered by this regulation are already on new rules in the pension system, i.e. after changing the pension system to one in which each of us has our own individual account and in this account we save. We do not include these people because they are not covered by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment in this respect. And now about those people who haven't filed... We have one rule in the insurance system: pension is at the request of an employee. It's not coercion, it's his choice. And we don't want to break that rule, because if we broke it, if we were to make an official calculation, it would be again someone's charge to the Constitutional Court that this solution is unconstitutional. So we maintain the principle that this is done on request. Now that's why there's a difference. Now those who will apply will benefit from this better part, which means they will also have 1,400 PLN of an average higher pension. This is why there are differences: firstly, old and new systems enter into this, and secondly, the possibility of retirement. Of course, the pension system is very complicated, and he too - what I have already said in the committee - can cause someone, another group, to go to the Constitutional Court with the allegation that his condition is worse than others. It could be a situation. However, we remain in such a legal order that it is the Constitutional Tribunal which finally decides on the rule of law, and in this respect We settle this sentence - 1953. And now the difference with the senate project... Oh, one more remark, because this is where the president's story comes in. This project was addressed to public consultation at the end of the year. In the meantime, a senate project appeared, but the problem that arose in connection with our project and the senate project - hence this delay - concerns costs. In our project, which we have prepared and for which we have calculations from the Social Insurance Institution, we estimate costs - for a period of 10 years - for 4 billion PLN. In the Senate project, which covered not only the year 1953, but years from 1949 to 1952, plus over 1953, i.e. women until 1959, and men until 1954, the costs were calculated at PLN 1200 million. I've got the Social Security Department calculations today, and after the committee meeting, we were still trying to figure it out. It's like we've wiped out that article. 25 - he comes out of senate regulations - in 10 years the cost would be PLN 30 billion. And the level of compensation for all groups in 2021 would be PLN 18 billion. It's a colossal difference. That is why the issues that we address in the pension system are so important and important. One change, so to speak, wrong, can have unimaginable effects. Therefore, this decision, that in this case we are dealing only with the year 1953, because in this regard the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment and this judgment is implemented by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. For the third reading of the project... There are adjustments. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National (prints no. 415 and 417). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National, print No 415. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. On 15 June, the Marshal of the Sejm sent this bill to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading. The Commission, after first reading and considering this proposal at its meeting on 17 June this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the bill adopted. During the discussion at the committee meeting, one of the clubs submitted a draft amendment to the project. It was, among other things. to declassify any kind of file or file, as it is said, kept at the Institute of National Remembrance. In view of the fact that, according to the opinion of the Parliament's lawyers, this is also in the opinion of the majority of committee members, this goes beyond the scope of the decision which is the subject of today's debate or today's reading, the committee has given a negative opinion on these changes. However, during the discussion - this is still in the context of the High House's explanation - there were also questions related to the statute of limitations of Ukrainian crimes by Ukrainian nationalists in Volhynia. Unfortunately, these crimes, which are ordinary crimes, were not committed by organized military units cooperating with the German occupation, were statute-barred in accordance with our pre-war code of 1932. On the other hand, today's submission is needed to ensure that these communist crimes, which are not war crimes, are not statute-barred, because on 1 August this year. the statute of limitations would have taken place, but as far as these other communist crimes are concerned, the statute of limitations would have taken place in 10 years. So that they do not pass the statute of limitations on these crimes, which are not war crimes, as well as war crimes, this project is necessary. At the committee meeting there was quite a thorough and long debate, a discussion. The project was adopted in this form, which is presented to the High House. Please, as I requested, accept this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The subject matter and substance of the amendments proposed by the group of Members of the Law and Justice Group in the current legal order is above all to enable an absolute and unlimited time to prosecute communist crimes and thus to prevent the limitation of the criminality of those crimes, as would be the case under the current law on 1 August of this year. In the world of values we respect, the certainty and inevitability of punishment for crimes committed against man are not contentious. The democratic state is founded on the citizen's confidence in having fundamental rights with human dignity. Therefore, the pursuit of Communist oppressors who have embezzled the essence of humanity cannot be limited by any date. Established in December 1998, the Institute of National Remembrance has been pursuing Nazi and communist criminals for years, restoring honor to soldiers and heroes of daily struggle for Poland. During the session of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice, which almost entirely approved this bill, representing the Institute of National Remembrance, prosecutor Robert Kopydłowski provided information that 431 proceedings are currently being conducted in the Committee on the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, and in more than 300 a qualification from the article was applied. 3 as crimes against humanity. Respecting the memory of communist crimes, we must do everything we can to ensure that the guilty take responsibility for their actions. The lack of consent to the statute of limitations of prosecution and judging of criminals is based on both the Polish constitution and the wise criminal policy of the state. It is also widely respected by the international community. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is strongly in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u110	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We would like to say to the government or to the Minister, but unfortunately, the very important project we are dealing with at the moment, concerning the fact that communist crimes do not expire, is not unfortunately a government project. I would like to say very clearly: we have been expecting a government project on this issue, a project that was created in the Ministry of Justice, a project ahead of prepared, which will not allow communist criminals to be properly judged from 1 August. We know that this ministry, the Ministry of Justice, was famous for various amendments to the IPN Act. They caused exceptional upheaval in the area of international relations, caused various kinds of consequences, from which the government later had to withdraw from cancer. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue that we are dealing with, the issue that the Civic Coalition Club fully supports, has one basic objective to ensure that these crimes do not expire. Ladies and gentlemen, what are communist crimes? Communist crimes under the IPN Act are acts committed by Communist officials from 17 September 1939 to 31 July 1990. They consist in the use of repression or other forms of human rights violations against, or in connection with, the individual or group of the population. And they constitute a crime according to the Polish criminal law in force at the time of its execution. But there are also other types of crimes that were not sanctioned by the communist state, and the investigations conducted by the IPN are led by a criminal prosecution committee, which may end with an indictment. Ladies and gentlemen, the very important thing I would like to say. We also expected, and I say this as a representative of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, that an institution such as the IPN, whose budget has increased significantly, i.e. from 250 million in 2015 to 350 million in 2020, we will be informed by the legislative authority of this kind of danger, because at the moment only efficient proceding and full support for this legislative initiative can ensure that criminals do not escape due responsibility. It seemed like the IPN should have informed us about this. Here's another thing. We would also like the files of the communist service to be open files. It cannot be that some politicians, some officers are excluded from these activities of the state institution. We would like to say very clearly: we do not agree that the biography and biographies of officers and politicians who are going to cooperate with the current authority are whitewashed, that the communist judges are in government, as was the case between 2005 and 2007, when the communist judge of martial law, Judge Kryża, was elevated to the dignity of the Deputy Minister of Justice in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. Nor does we agree that the entire apparatus of the state is involved in the fact that the communist prosecutor, who was also a Member of this House for a while, will pretend that as a communist prosecutor he was a victim of this system, which he was an officer, but also from which he received State decorations. Nor can it ever be repeated that the President of the State Fund suddenly does not appear on the list of persons who are subject to the Mirror Act, just because in the early 1990s he did business (the bell) with the President of an important political party. I would like to say very unambiguously: we will do everything - and here, as a parliamentary opposition, but also as a pro-democratic majority in the Senate - so that these rules will start to apply on 31 July and that from 1 August, so far, communist criminals cannot feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Maria Żukowska will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u112	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! First, a few words about the institution we're going to talk about, the Institute of National Remembrance. The left for many years, from the beginning, tells us why we are in favour of eliminating the IPN. I think that Professor Andrzej Romanowski, the former chief of the Polish biographical dictionary, also former activist of the "Solidarity": The Institute of National Remembrance combines two institutions under one roof: the prosecutor's office and the historical institution. Yet the objectives of both institutions are completely different. The prosecutor is going to judge, the historian is going to understand the mechanisms. The D.A. isn't looking for extenuating circumstances - the lawyer might be wondering about it, and it's not in the IPN, because it's not there, it's at a court hearing. Historian, on the other hand, is not interested in the question of guilt or punishment, but in the analysis of the historical process. The IPN has ruined many lives. 50,000. Officers have lost their pensions. Were they criminals? No. In this group there are cleaners at the MMA hospital, drivers, builders of the PESEL base, SOK-ists, borderers. We're gonna fight to get them retiring. We've already filed a bill on this matter. But back to the IPN theme: What to do with the liquidation mass after the IPN? Because that's what we're gonna do, so the IPN will, of course, cease to function. Archives should be transferred to the New Act Archives. We'll transfer the prosecutors to the D.A.'s office, and that's where they'll go after criminals. Historical education should be implemented in the form of research grants requested by universities and other scientific institutions. The Mirror Office should be removed - let the agents investigate the issues of the agent. IPN is also an extremely expensive institution. In 2020 the IPN budget amounted to PLN 423 million, as much as PLN 93 million more than in 2019. In comparison, the budget of the State Academy of Sciences is PLN 83 million. So in the last year IPN received a raise from PiS, which exceeds the budget of the entire Polish Academy of Sciences. You have so much money you don't know what you're spending it on. What are the hundreds of millions of zlotys going for? According to the NIK prosecutor in IPN, he made an average of 18,000. PLN per month in 2018 There are 130 prosecutors in the IPN. The Left does not oppose the prosecution of crimes committed during the period of the Polish People's Republic. The Left wants to pursue criminals, including Communist criminals. If someone committed a crime, he should be tried before the democratic court of Poland. This is the position of the Polish left for 30 years. We're on the eve of the presidential election. On 9 November 1993, Aleksander Kwasniewski, then president of the SLD club, said from this speaker: Today I would also like to say, although perhaps I should not say this to all of them, and they are also in this room who have experienced the harm and wickedness of power and system before 1989: we apologize. Those words still apply. Just like the 1991 Declaration of the National Convention of the SdRP: We have rejected the system, we defend people and values. Every day we will defend people against collective responsibility, but if crimes were committed - whether in the 1950s or 80s. - the guilty must be punished. Therefore, the Left Club will submit its draft law on IPN, while it will support the bill submitted by Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Polish Coalition Club is clearly in favour of ensuring that communist crimes are not subject to statute of limitations. That is why we consider this draft amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals to be the most legitimate project, especially since at the end of the next month, on 31 July this year, the statute of limitations would be imposed on these communist crimes, which are not the crimes of murder, but - as already explained in one of the previous speeches - meant the use of repression and violations of human rights during the period of the Polish People's Republic of Poland, and these cases were many and not all who did so were properly tried. This project is going in the right direction, much better than the proposed and forced by the parliamentary majority, the majority of Law and Justice, the laws which in fact led to the introduction of collective responsibility for people involved in the functioning of the communist state, whether called "Pospolitan Poland" in the 1940s or in 1952 - the Polish People's Republic. However, it is not possible or impossible not to share the following reflection, which Mrs Milczanowska gave very much to her speech presenting the position of Law and Justice on precisely this law when she said that this law and this request to ensure that non-homicide communist crimes, in this particular case, are not subject to statute of limitations this year, are an expression of a system of values to which Members, politicians, activists of Law and Justice follow. Beautiful words, but how do they relate to reality? How do they feel that it is in your ranks, from your recommendations of people involved in the system of oppression from the communist state, people who have been proven or there is tangible evidence that they have participated in what is in the IPN Act defined as a communist crime - it is about repression and violations of human rights - not only are they not punished, but are rewarded by positions and prominent positions in the institutional system of the free state of Poland? I'll call in three names. Judge Andrzej Kryże was a high-ranking officer in the rank of Deputy Minister of Justice in the government, among others. Jarosław Kaczyński, from 2005 to 2007. He was also responsible for condemning opponents on the pretext of beating - one person was to beat up three SB officers - or for announcing the obvious fact that the Polish People's Republic was not a sovereign state, and they had the courage to lay flowers under the Unknown Soldier's Tomb on the anniversary of regaining independence in 1918. I'm talking about Andrzej Czum, Bronisław Komorowski and Wojciech Ziembinski. There is a case of Judge Iwulski, who the current President Andrzej Duda appointed in 2016 as President of one of the chambers of the Supreme Court, and this is the judge who, during the period of martial law, was active in military uniform, handed down sentences against opposition activists. He was sentenced to 16 people, including 13 to prison sentences. And there's also an emblematic figure, I'd say. Thank God she's not in this room anymore. For years he was a senator, a Member of Law and Justice, and in martial law, a prosecutor of martial law. This is Stanisław Piotrowicz, who was the author, among others. Indictment against opposition activist Antoni Pikul, in which he accused him, among others. about distribution and colportage of opposition publications, and for their service [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 1984 he was awarded a high award by the Council of the State of the Polish People's Republic. So declarations - one beautiful word about values - the other, and the reality, unfortunately - very sad. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u115	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, who, together with Mr Grzegorz Braun, will present the position of the Committee of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that there is this bill because all communist crimes should be settled without limitation, they should simply be settled. It is regrettable at this point that unfortunately in Poland there has never been a complete illustration, which was blocked by the governing camp, and precisely by the Presidential Palace in 2006. It's about opening the files, it's just about opening the files. And once again, we call for this: open the files and finish this game. We also call for an annex to the report on the CSI to be disclosed. [[Applause]] We're calling for it. We call for this to happen at last because five years of the next presidency are passing, and there is no annex. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, when it comes to decommunization in Poland, unfortunately the Third Polish Republic did not decommunize, this decommunization is carried out only by biology. It is only biology that decommunizes in Poland. As for the Institute of National Remembrance - unfortunately, it does not fulfil its tasks, as Krzysztof Bosak has said many times as a candidate for president, noting that although the provisions of the Act on IPN are clearly stated that it is intended to defend the good name of Poland and Poles, for example. There are no regular English-speaking social media accounts on the IPN, which would carry out this kind of work on a non-stop basis. This is a huge negligence. On the occasion of the discussion about the IPN and on the occasion of this important fundamental issue, which is defending the good name of the Republic of Poland in our country and around the world, we would like to remind you of the bill so shamefully treated in June 2018 in this very room, in 8 hours submitted, translated in three readings and in a run signed by President Andrzej Duda, knocking out teeth or kastruting, as who prefers, the Act of January 2018 on IPN. There is nothing about this project other than Prime Minister Beata Szydło said: There is nothing in it that would condone our relationship or search for the truth and talk about it in the sense spoken of by the State of Israel. She stressed that the Holocaust was a great tragedy caused by the Germans and that it was necessary to pursue everyone who questioned it. This bill finally ends with the fact that it is possible to lie with impunity about the fact that there were Polish death camps. That's not true. These are the words of the Prime Minister Beata Szydło of March 2018, after the Act of January 2018. We are giving Law and Justice a chance today, as a result of the initiative of my colleague and Grzegorz Braun, we are giving you the opportunity to reverse this embarrassment in 2018 and to vote - we are calling this as a draft - amendments to the IPN Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u117	God bless you! God's happiness in hard work for the country of all hardworking, truthful, seeking the truth about our history to the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance! Do not be afraid. As long as members of the Confederate circle sit in the Sejm, who hope to grow to the size of the club, do not be afraid of threats from the Left, who will vote in favour of this project economically, but win you, along with colleagues from other clubs, threaten to eliminate this deserved for the search and cultivation of the historical memory of Poles of the institution. It's not with us. Now this bill that we're investigating here today. A clear matter, without limitation in the case of communist, Soviet crimes, whether in the Russian- or in the Polish-speaking edition, or in Yiddish, which was a language popular in some institutions of crimes on the Polish nation, without difference. Communist crimes without limitation. I am protesting, indeed, sir. I say it with great, difficult to say in this situation: joy, but I am happy that I, who came from a family in which in the 40s and 50s most grown men were in prison, can put myself on trial for this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] And another detail, Mr. Marshal, your marshal, I'm sorry, there's been a change. In the days in which the counterfeiting of history takes on an institutional dimension, the heads of state, including the President of the Russian Federation, do not hesitate to assign Poland responsibility for the start of World War II, it is particularly important that we, here in Warsaw, be unambiguous in the assessment of communist crimes and the participation of the Soviet Union in the start of World War II. Thank you very much. I thank all my colleagues for their participation in this work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u118	Okay, sir, thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I close the list of Members willing to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u119	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs... In the explanatory memorandum to this law, the applicants refer to the recital of the Constitution and stress that, while caring for human rights, they want to pursue communist crimes indefinitely. I do not mind, but I would like to ask: When will we deal with today's violations of human rights by the rulers? When will you stop turning a blind eye to the fact that students of the University of Silesia have been interrogated at the police for a few weeks because they disagreed with Catholic ideology at the secular university and homophobic statements of one of the lecturers? When are you going to stop using the pandemic to stop people from gathering when they're uncomfortable for you, while your government was able to meet at the top of the disease, where it wanted, how it wanted, and in what composition did it want? And when will we finally hold the President of the Republic of Poland and PiS politicians responsible for saying that LGBT are not people who receive this large group of Polish people's human dignity? Let's get to the point, Member. When? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u120	Thank you. Please take care of serious matters, follow the Sejm's deliberations and ask... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But you didn't understand. No, I'm sorry. Member, I call you to order. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome. Oh, thank you very much. Another question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. I can't see. So Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The judgment of communist crimes has not only a legal dimension, but also an expression of moral condemnation for such acts, a foundation in the public awareness of their criminality, as well as a sense of justice for the victims, their families and society as a whole. The admission to the limitation of communist crimes would, on the other hand, constitute a denial of constitutional values and generally recognised by the international community. I have a question for applicants, possibly representatives of the Ministry of Justice or IPN. This project is intended to cover only proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the amendment. Do you confirm this position? How, then, are reports to be made after 1 August in the context of this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PLN 423 million is intended to cost all taxpayers the functioning of the IPN this year. That's PLN 63 million more than last year. In comparison, the State Labour Inspection, which should be able to ensure that people at work or people working in Poland are legally employed and that their work is safe, will receive only PLN 374 million. Jarosław Szarek, president of the IPN, said in one of the interviews that the IPN cared very much about the proper education of young people so that in the future it could be the elite of our nation. Activities take a different form: from exhibitions, audiobooks to games and comics. I wanted to know how many millions of public funds were spent on various kinds of board games. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the left of the IPN, the archives, files should be transferred to the Archives of the New Acts. As a representative of the next generation who doesn't have a file in the IPN - at least I think - I'm interested in looking into the future and not just into the past. In the end, the guilty will be judged. Let's not play with files. Enough with files, as with former President Lech Wałęsa - it turned out that from a large cloud small rain. The Left will submit its own bill on IPN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u126	Thank you. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will remind you of the data already provided by the representative of the Left. Budget of the State Academy of Sciences - 83 million, IPN budget - 423 million, number of employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences - 8700, number of employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences - 2200. IPN gets several dozen million zlotys more than the State Labour Inspection. In IPN, the average remuneration of the prosecutor in 2018 is over 18 thousand. PLN, which is exactly 10,000. more than a statistical prosecutor. The average salary of a scientist or scientist in the Polish Academy of Sciences is just over 3,000. zł, the average salary of the employee is exactly twice as high, that is over 6 thousand. zł. Investigation less, earnings more and more. If you paid so much of the State Academy of Sciences, all the crimes would already be documented. If you paid the same amount to the prosecutors, all the criminals would be in jail by now. What's the efficiency? How do we count the viability of an institution like IPN? Do we just get it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] pays: chasing and documenting in the IPN issue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few short questions. First of all, will the next 30 years be hidden files? Why are they being hidden? Will the applicant, the PiS, with such overzealousness, be willing to protect... You want to protect the state. ...pedophiles, paedophile criminals, or, just as he's eager to prosecute Communist criminals, will he also prosecute criminals who are paedophiles? Because it's very important. These are crimes. against Poles and Poles, and this is very important. Another thing, one more question, if I still have time. It's about the issue of wages. They're really inadequate for the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking today about a bill to prosecute criminals. And that's a good thing, because as a Left, we don't think it can be that someone stays unpunished. Let's solve this. Yeah, let's solve it. 423 million has been allocated to IPN this year. And that's a good thing, isn't it? Is that what you think? We've got so many prosecutors, and we've hurt people... Which ones? ...the military, whose one law you put in one bag. My friends, friends from Jelenia Góra, Legnica, Bolesławica or Zgorzelca were deprived of their rights. For what? Retirement. Why didn't these prosecutors check in every case whether there was any reason to deprive a person of his pension? Why was everyone thrown in one pot? Only one candidate (the bell) for president, Robert Biedron, stands up for those people who were actually hurt by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was very concerned about the fact that the amendment on the need to declassify the files in the IPN had been negatively assessed by the committee. As I understand it, there was a majority on the committee, a majority of the PiS, who had a negative opinion. So I ask you: What was the reason? After all, you are aware of how much harm is being done because of this, how many people... I know a few of these people personally, but I think I'm sure there are more people who have made mistakes. A man who is innocent, then, after a second examination gets information, so, he wasn't a co-worker, so, he's innocent, etc. But there's already a whole bunch of rumors, a whole bunch of speeches and misconceptions. What's the reason why there's this unnecessary mystery? You often talk about the truth being the most important, so let's reveal the truth (the bell), let everyone face the truth about themselves. Then I ask you to accept this amendment. It is important, think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about a project that's obvious to all of us. We believe that there should be no statute of limitations for communist crimes. What worries me is that such an important project, about which Law and Justice speaks as key to itself, is this: as a parliamentary project, at the last moment, almost with the risk that this change might not enter into force. Ladies and gentlemen! Decide what is really important, and stop dealing with matters that are irrelevant, and focus on solutions that require that they be dealt with at the right time. I appeal for reasonable work by the Sejm and our parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u136	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that such a project is now in Parliament. It must be remembered that all the communist crimes that have taken place are things that must not be forgotten. We can forgive, but let us never forget what the commune has done to the Polish people. I am glad that such a project will allow us to continue chasing communist criminals, but I also have a very specific question. Where's the president's release of the PSI report? It's gone, and it should have been done by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u138	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice will answer the questions raised by Minister Marcin Warchoł. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was one question for us. I answer to Mr Sonik. Art. 2 wouldn't have made sense if it hadn't been for Art. 1, therefore, it is important that cases concerning crimes which have not yet been disclosed and which will be disclosed in the future may be conducted. Had it not been for this change that we are looking at at this moment, these proceedings would have had to end by refusing to initiate preparatory proceedings by virtue of the Article. 17 § 1 point 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure according to which no proceedings are initiated and the proceedings initiated shall be terminated in the event of a statute of limitations. That is why we appeal, of course we support this project in its entirety as a very good one, needed and for the implementation of justice after years, while at the same time adding that these cases initiated and already completed are, of course, those carried out, while all new ones are in the article. 1 proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. On behalf of the Members of the applicants, Ms Anita Czerwińska will answer the question. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, it welcomes the unanimity that has already been at the committee's meeting. All of you have said that they are in favour of this law. Well, maybe with one exception. He was the only one who abstained from the confederate. So, gentlemen, when you say you want decommunization, you're welcome: actions, not words. Because on this speaker you can say anything, but we, through the vote, declare and declare what we really want and expect. So if you want decommunization, vote for it. On the one hand, I welcome this unanimity, but on the other hand I am concerned that some Members do not understand this law and do not understand how the Institute of National Remembrance is constructed. Let me refer to Mrs Fabisiak's words. Madam, I know you are not on this committee, you have not been to the meeting. Well, the Institute of National Remembrance is the Committee on the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, this is the investigative section that is now included in this law, and the issues that you have raised or raised are related to other verticals, departments and offices of the Polish National Remembrance Institute, the Archives, i.e. the Bureau of Mirror and the Office of Public Education. So I would very much ask that you raise the issues that you raise, as if you did not put into this law, because already at the Sejm the lawyers answered you that this is going beyond the scope of the submission. So let's discuss these issues, because really decommunization needs to be carried out effectively in Poland, but please let us [[Applause]] they did not mislead each other, and above all the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u142	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In corrigendum mode. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution amending the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (print No 421). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u143	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the Polish system, the legislative authority belongs to the Sejm and the Senate. The legislative function is one of the three basic functions of the Sejm. The Polish Constitution does not provide for the possibility of replacing the Sejm in its legislative function by other bodies. Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of 26 March this year. on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland was added to the Rules of Procedure of Section IIIa of the Sejm, containing provisions laying down rules for the holding of meetings of the Sejm, committees and sub-committees using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. High Seym! These provisions are fully in line with the OSCE statement of 21 April this year. on its website, the Communication states: The OSCE Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly have stated that the strong role of parliaments is essential in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic which is being tried for democracy. Parliaments throughout the OSCE region must therefore take decisive steps to ensure that work continues during the blockade and social distance. We see that many of the parliaments are doing just that. Despite the disruption of timetables and difficulties in organising regular plenary sessions and committees, which slows down the regular law-making process, many parliaments throughout the OSCE region show flexibility and commitment to adapt to current circumstances. Some parliaments have taken rapid action to amend their internal rules or the way in which laws are adopted that allow them to continue their activities through online platforms and remote work. In other countries, for the first time online meetings of parliamentary committees are being broadcast live on the Internet and television, making the emergency situation an opportunity to increase transparency, to illustrate responsibility and to bring parliamentary work closer to citizens at a time when many feel uninformed and isolated. This communication issued by the OSCE nearly a month after we introduced these rules can be considered a praise of the Polish Sejm. Not much, this message was pictured with a picture from the Polish Sejm. However, according to Article. 2 resolutions added provisions, i.e. the whole section of IIIa, are to expire on 30 June this year. The project, which I am pleased to present to you, proposes to repeal this provision and thus to maintain without delay the provisions of Section IIIa in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. At the same time, it should be stressed that the holding of meetings of the Sejm, committees and sub-committees using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication is possible only if the conditions set out in Article are met respectively. 198a paragraph. 1 and Article 1 198j paragraph. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, i.e. where a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster, martial law or an epidemic is introduced within the meaning of the Act of 5 December 2008. This chapter therefore applies only to such situations. This chapter does not order remote mode, as I said, through the use of means of electronic communication, only this article, these rules say that in one of these situations the Sejm may be held with the use of electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. I therefore recommend to you that you repeal the article. 2. Relevant draft resolution was submitted to the High Sejm. That is our recommendation, and it seems that this provision may exist, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And whether or not he will be used will depend on the situation in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u144	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution amending the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, print No 421. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure which is proposed, as stated by the applicant, is intended to repeal the Article. 2, which introduces the temporary possibility to hold remote meetings of the Sejm and remote meetings of committees which may be convened by the Marshal of the Sejm. In our view, this is the right solution. Presenting this solution a few months ago, we assumed that after a few months the pandemic time would end. Unfortunately, against some politicians, the government does not know when the pandemic will end. When it's over, it's gonna take an appropriate piece of legislation in this area, which, as it did in that state, is gonna put up with it. The solution that is designed is in fact aimed at ensuring that, where there are indications as set out in Article, there is one. 198a paragraph. 1 and Article 1 198j paragraph. 1, i.e. the occurrence of an emergency or epidemic, the Marshal of the Sejm, you or you, had the right to apply these rules and could convene meetings of the Sejm and the committee remotely. So that we fully approve of this solution. As the applicant's representative has put it forward, such solutions are recommended in Europe and are in force. Poland was one of the first countries to implement this. So that we fully support this proposal. At the same time, I also apply to your marshals to proceed immediately after the first reading to second reading, without referring the draft resolution to the committee. I'm making this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u146	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to the High House Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Tell me how it is: nurses can, doctors can, railroaders can, hairdressers can, miners can - everyone can. We freeze the economy, we work, we try to maintain certain sanitary rigors, function normally, and suddenly here in the Polish Parliament there is a group, a better group, maybe it's a better sort. Members can't. It's been a few months, it's been very difficult to freeze. Well, we've gotten used to it. I just want to say that this is not the change in the regulation to allow remote communication with electronic devices. It's about the fact that we don't have the initiative to call a committee, we don't have the initiative to call a subcommittee, that it's all in the hands of your marshal. There are no parliamentary statements, the parliamentary speeches last 3 minutes, 5 minutes tops. There's no discussion, there's no expertise, there's no visitors at the committee meeting. It's becoming the silent Seym. And please don't tell me that this extension has been invented for an unlimited period in the care of health and well-being. The Sejm is not needed for anything. You guys are in trouble. Half your club, I'm talking to the United Right here, they're government members. So where do they have time to sit here, vote, discuss? Oh, yeah, remotely, there's always a political office, a secretary, somebody's gonna do it, voting's got an excellent turnout. The opposition does not speak, the opposition does not stigmatize, the opposition does not submit proposals, there is no opposition. You've treated the Sejm as an auxiliary government farm. The Sejm is not needed for anything. And now you're saying it's supposed to be permanent? Soon our children and grandchildren will have such a definition in history textbooks: Sejm - a complex of buildings in the centre of Warsaw with interesting architecture near the church of pw. St. Alexandra. That's all there is to it about the Seym. [[Applause]] Is that what you want? We're not authorized to do that. We have lasted these few months and if we freeze all areas of economic and social life, then the Sejm must be defrosted (The Bell) first. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u148	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Rutka will present his position on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the sense of responsibility for the health and life of Poles, the left club has supported all the government's efforts to reduce the effects of the spread of COVID-19 from the very beginning of the epidemic and the subsequent epidemic. For this reason, in our sense of responsibility for the life and health of Members and in our concern for ensuring the continuity of the functioning of the Sejm, we agreed to the request for the possibility of holding meetings of the Sejm, committees and sub-committees in Section III of the Sejm, using electronic means for communication at a distance. It was a mistake. The acceptance of this mode of operation of the Sejm was a gesture of goodwill on our part. However, this does not mean that we had no fear of making such a decision. For we are aware that the Law and Justice in practice are very careful in the administration of law, and even more so in justice. However, there are emergency situations in life where responsible political forces, actually caring for the well-being of citizens and citizens rise above the ad hoc, particular interests, support pillars or quiet sleep of the president. We thought that, in the face of the unobjected threat of the COVID-19 pandemic, the good will gesture of the hand would meet with a kind and understanding reception, and yet it has been bitten badly once, and only with little satisfaction must we admit that it was not bitten off. The possibility of holding meetings of the Sejm, committees and subcommittees using electronic means has often exceeded the limits of good parliamentary custom. The meetings of the committee shall be convened from day to day under the dictation of the governing party, the electoral calendar or the expectations of the ordinary Member. Under such conditions, it is impossible to plan reliable work in districts, cannot prepare honestly and responsibly for meetings or committee work. Not all Members really live in the capital or, to be precise, in the elite Żoliborz. Many of us travel to Sejm meetings for 10 hours in one direction. We have a lot of reservations about committee work. We see that in the committees during the voting sessions, by telephone, Members of the governing party are called to vote, and only after the votes have been given, the voting procedure is completed. This is not a good practice. The government and Minister Szumowski systematically defrost other spheres of public life. Clients returned to the shopping gallery, students wrote Matura, faithful returned to churches, mourners - at cemeteries, fans - to the stands, and 460 Members and Messengers [[♪ The bell ♪]] cannot return to a job that is well rewarded by taxpayers. The Left strongly advocates the restoration of the Sejm before the outbreak. We owe it to all citizens in these difficult times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented to the High House by Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 club, I have the honour to present my position on printing No 421 concerning the amendment of the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Member, please. If you want to fight, it's out of the open room. Let us allow the Member to speak and present the position of the club. You're welcome. The present text, in a laconic three-line text, is intended to legalize further remote and limited works of the Sejm for an unlimited period of time. High Izbo! The Coalition Poland Club a few months ago supported amendments to the Rules of Procedure enabling the meetings to be held remotely by the end of this month. Our agreement was based on a reasonable principle of caution. Back then, we didn't know what kind of threat we were facing. We saw a scary relationship with Wuhan where people died on the streets. We saw a large number of sick health care services in Italy that could not cope. We now hear from the politicians of the ruling party that the epidemic is contained. We freeze the economy, send people to ballot boxes, so there's no reason for politicians to continue to be treated as privileged caste. At this point, it should be said that Parliament has been treated exceptionally in recent months. Before the Seym, the Seym buildings were decontaminated, and the Members had a measured temperature. Such treatment has not been experienced by millions of Poles, which is due to the tragic situation in Silesian mines, or actually in the entire voivodship. Currently, the Sejm works in the form of remains. Parliamentary teams are not working, the social side is not admitted to committee meetings, and committee meetings themselves are convened occasionally. Let me give you a concrete example. As far as the Committee on Agriculture is concerned, 15 meetings have been held to date and 50 meetings have been held during the same period, i.e. more than three times more in the last term. In conclusion, we do not agree to continue to fake the work of the Sejm, which is why I am requesting that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski will first present the position of the Confederation's Circle of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a project to extend the operation of the new Sejm rules. Why should Members be treated differently when they defrost the economy, calm citizens and return to normal life and do not need to return to normal working conditions? The answer is simple: because the Law and Justice such a way of remotely proceding is on hand. We all know that you are unable to watch your Members who do not want to come to the Sejm meetings, who do not want to come to the meetings of individual committees, which responds to the fact that just log in to the system, click on the icon and the full payment will affect the account. They don't even have to see the Sejm or the committee. But is this the work of Polish parliamentarians? According to the Confederation, no. I will now mention the situations that took place at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Recently we were going to talk about several international agreements and opinions of future Polish ambassadors. At 29 Members, 4 took part in the meetings of the committee on the spot in kidnappings of up to 7 Members. And they were the only ones who spoke. The Polycom system, thanks to which Members can in theory participate remotely in the meetings, acts selectively. For example, as Mrs Lichocka wanted to speak remotely, she could not do so in the system, but had to contact by telephone, call the person who works at committee meetings, and this person put a phone to the microphone so that she could speak. It's Monty Python. Is this to be a serious debate on very important topics? This is a mockery of parliamentarianism, but also of Poles, because in their interest we should work, not sit at home. In addition, participation in committees of the social side and experts in the areas concerned is prevented, leading to lower levels of debate. The current wording of the Rules of Procedure serves as a marshal to limit the speaking time of the speaker. A drastic example of this was the use of only a few minutes to present citizens' projects for the protection of conceived life or against Law 447, under which hundreds of thousands and even millions of Poles signed. Let us reject this convenience of remote participation in meetings, the rule of law of the Sejm and return to normal work, holding a normal debate for the good of all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm just, uh, Marshal, about the corrigendum. But, excuse me, correction for... After all, Mr... About the corrigendum, okay? But no, the Member didn't speak, so what's there to straighten out. Excuse me. Let's get to the questions. But I was insulted here. You can correct your own statement, Mr President. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant. What epidemic measure suggests maintaining remote meetings of the Sejm? As you have written in the draft resolution, you want to hold an indefinite remote session of the Sejm because the epidemic is in force. We're talking about the state of the epidemic that our brave Prime Minister Morawiecki and brave Minister Szumowski say he's gone, the curve's flattened. Commercial galleries were unfreezed, many areas of social and economic life were unfreezed, and Poles were allowed in. Does it not care about the safety and health of Poles, and is it so terribly concerned about the safety and health of Members? We want to work normally, just as all Poles work. You want to exalt yourselves over Poles, and we don't. We want to work normally and honestly. Why do you want them to be remote sittings? Because you don't want the opposition to have a voice to keep the opposition active. If you don't want to work, pass the tickets and let those who want to work hard and hard work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u156	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u157	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Given the ever-growing epidemic of Coronavirus in Poland and the inefficiencies in its fight against it, it is not surprising to allow remote meetings of the Sejm, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a justification for the convening of committee meetings by the marshal, not by individual chairmen. As the last four months have shown, such a record practically blocks honest work on laws. The meetings of the committee shall be convened at the last minute, once every few months. Yesterday's example - the Committee on Senior Policy met for the first time since mid-February yesterday, for 15 minutes. Nobody cares about the infection in the DPS, the difficult situation of seniors. 15 minutes were spent yesterday at the Senior Policy Committee. I do not want to talk about the fact that, if there are no committee meetings, people who work in social organisations cannot speak either. These solutions do not improve the work of the committee, they only marginalise it, and I don't think that's what we want. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u159	Since 6 June, Minister Glinski's orders are already open, normally working in Poland circuses. I don't understand why we're making this exception for our High House. I think we should, like all citizens, be able to work normally. I am not opposed to modernity - if someone would like to work remotely, I personally would not have a problem with it - but I do not understand why we cannot invite guests to committee meetings, we cannot invite experts to meetings of teams, committees, etc., etc. Mr Dziambor used these remote sessions to put a tablet on the treadmill, and there he lost 15 kg, but what do you need that time for? I'd like an explanation. Why can't we meet on the spot, and why isn't a social factor allowed in the Sejm still, even though actually everywhere the sharpenings are already being removed and we are implementing the de facto Swedish model across the country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This supposedly today's debate confirms only that it was never about remote or electronic sitting, and COVID was just an excuse. In fact, it was a matter of not so much mute Sejm as the Sejm on a leash, even if wireless, Sejm on a pilot controlled from Nowogrodzka. This is not personal either, because I do not think that a private Member is so digitally advanced. Mrs... And that's the truth about this project of yours, especially as we recall, it wasn't so long ago that it was originally supposed to be a timely solution. It was a gentlemen's agreement on the part of the opposition that we would agree when it was confirmed that it was short-lived. So? It came out of the bag. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes adopted to allow for the use of means of electronic communication enabling distance communication had a purpose and there is no doubt that this was needed at the time of the increase in infection. But, ladies and gentlemen, my constituents, as you probably do, voted for me in the Podlaskie Voivodeship and we are no different from hairdressers, cosmetics, doctors. We should be working in the workplace, which is what we've been chosen to do. The Left is in favour of us working only in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You are saying from this stand that as long as they are mentioned in the Predictation Act, the Sejm will sit remotely. How's that? So the marshal will decide how many people, how many Polish Members will be able to enter the sitting room? How many people will be able to speak in the discussion? Ladies and gentlemen! What's the point? Well, this condition, the only premise, is the political interest of the PiS majority. Today you decide the shape of the Polish parliament. All those who vote in favour today should be aware that they will go into history as those who have reduced the role and importance of the Polish parliament and brought this role to the role of the couch parliament, meaningless. I was not chosen as a couch Member, but as a Member who is to represent in the proper way the interests of his constituents. We will shout out loud who is responsible for your destruction of the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u166	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Don't ask me why it's being introduced. Do not ask why it is impossible to bring experts to the Sejm, why it was the Marshal of the Sejm who took away the capacity to convene meetings of individual committees from committee chairmen. Don't ask for that kind of detail. Let us be aware of one thing in this room: just as COVID19 destroys human lungs as a result of the pathogen, so the United Right under the banners of Jarosław Kaczyński destroys the lungs of democracy, which is Parliament. This is the essence of this procedure. [[Applause]] And I want to tell you, from the United Right, that it's not that it's going to be remembered, but I want to tell you here that one day we're going to restore normal parliamentarianism. And you can't destroy democracy. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your rapporteur is smiling pretty hard. Well, unfortunately, yes, you did, you fooled us all... I'm smiling because you haven't read the project at all. Mrs... Are you talking to me? I read it. You've fooled us all. Not just us, the parliamentarians, but also the nation. Ladies or gentlemen working in markets, hairdressers, hairdressers, you tell them to go to work normally, and you're blocking us from doing this normal job. I'm on two committees. Yesterday after 3 months we had a meeting of one of them, which lasted 15 minutes. We have requested the establishment of a subcommittee for the DPS cases. You said the DPS situation was great. I have the handwriting I received from your marshal. Why don't you let us work normally (the bell) so we can process what people expect of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u171	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I came to the Sejm, I naively hoped to see real parliamentarianism here, because the word itself comes from the French word "parler": speak, talk. If there is something we should sit here for tonight, it is not for your laws to pass in one day without public consultation, but just to discuss it to the will that the best law be established as a result of these discussions. In return, under the cover of the pandemic and due to the dubious quality of the remote vote, I saw a complete denial of this. Question. Question, Member. It's a silent Seym. No possibility to ask questions, no voidness in the plenary room... You can just ask a question, Mrs Bauer. There will be a question. I have time. At the same time, we sat in smaller rooms crowded with dozens of people. The ruling party used the epidemic to bring even the Sejm to its parody: quietly, quickly, without media, and messengers and Members were brought to the remote voting machines. Do we really want this state, the remote Sejm to prolong... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. ...and show the whole world how wrong the law is in Poland? [[Applause]] Bravo! Thank you. There was a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u172	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current parliament, acting under the rules of procedure that you wish to extend, is the facade of parliamentarians. The discussions on the projects are patheticly facaded. Your marshal reduces debates to three minutes and three questions per club. Your Marshal is constantly celebrating the rules, reducing the time to zero to get to know the projects. The committee's meetings have been facaded, and they haven't really been held since March. The Water Commission has not dealt with the plan 'Stop drought!', the Energy Commission has not dealt with the dramatic situation in the mines, the members of the climate committee have not seen the climate minister. Anybody know where the climate minister is? Where the Minister of Finance is. Maybe somebody saw him. And yet, in theory, the meetings are supposed to enable discussion and the committee itself. Why aren't they happening? Do you wish to extend the faculty of Polish parliamentarianism indefinitely? From this place I say: we have enough facade of Polish parliamentarianism. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u174	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm done. I have as democratic a mandate as any other member of the PiS. I have been elected by the votes of my constituents and should implement my mandate in an independent, democratic and unlimited manner. Free, sir. In the meantime, you're very limited to me. I'm sick and tired of not being able to go into the Seym. Where are you now? I can't ask questions because you're limiting the number of questions. It's not a rally, it's a seym. That is not enough, you are still shortening your time to ask questions, and to that, please, you are interrupting not only halfway through your sentence, but also sometimes halfway through your words. I'm sick of it. I want to implement my parliamentary mandate just like any other Member. Parliament cannot be closed to Members. Parliament is precisely for us to meet here, to rub away during discussions and to create a good law. How are we supposed to meet when we're here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] active only on the Internet? We've had enough of this. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u176	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u177	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, we've had enough. We are tired of restricting Members' ability to do normal work. We're tired of blocking access to the plenary room. We're tired of blocking committee meetings. We're tired of not being able to work the teams. We are tired of reducing Members' speeches in the Sejm. We are tired of blocking the participation of the social side in Parliament's work. And we are tired of restricting discussions about regulations that concern all Poles. Who was blocking the platform? We are sick of this regime that destroys Polish parliamentarianism. And I have one question: Don't you in PiS see that Poles are sick of all this too? Don't you see that? Why were you blocking the platform? Why don't you listen to the sovereign? People get sick of it, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Read what parliamentarianism is, you'll know what you're ruining. Gentlemen, if you'd like to talk, please go crawling.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, What is a remote Sejm in practice? Nothing but restricting our rights that the voters have given us by choosing us for Parliament. What is the remote work of the Sejm? In fact, I am a Member of the Committee on Public Finance, who works non-stop during the epidemic, gathers practically every week because it has become a specialist not only in public finance law but also in the Penal Code. And what's the job on this committee like? I am sitting in front of my tablets with these cards: please vote Paulina Hennig-Kloska. [[Applause]] And if not with these, then with this: amendment - Paulina Hennig-Kloska. Is our voice being given? Can we make any amendments in order to be a good law? No, 'cause it's the usual thing. Only the good will of the President and the Members of the Law and Justice are given this vote every time, and the Members of the opposition are not. That's not true. We've had enough of the parliamentary regime, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which you have introduced here, which has nothing to do with good lawmaking and the care of citizens' rights and freedoms. [[Applause]] And the constitution. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u180	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I'm closing... Oh, Mrs Barbara Bartus asked for the floor. On behalf of the applicants, I understand that you will answer the questions raised. Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u181	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A little logic in all this. Exactly. Several dozen Members of the speaker shouted that they could not speak. There were no questions. How wasn't it? You screamed that you couldn't speak, you screamed the same way from the room. Anyone who wants and who can participate here in the work of the Sejm. We're gonna scream louder and louder. Member, please, if you want to scream, maybe in the cockroaches, okay? That's parliamentaryism. But not the marketplace. Exactly. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen! The provisions of Chapter IIIa have been in force since 26 March this year. There was enough time to get to know them. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions state that the Sejm in remote mode may - maybe, not necessarily, but may - be convened only when we have an epidemic or one of the three emergency states that are mentioned in the Constitution. And who decides that? And there's no way that at another time, without the state of natural disaster or the state of epidemic, these laws can be used. Exactly. Who decides? He decides the Marshal of the Sejm after consulting the Senior Convention. Yeah, because the marshal's organizing the Sejm's work. And only in these situations - the emergency states mentioned in the Constitution and the epidemic... It's not an epidemic, it's just... ...as defined by the 2008 Act. Ladies and gentlemen! You guys had time to yell at each other from the podium. Let me answer your questions, because it was really just a scream to yell, but you don't understand that when it comes to... You have a problem understanding. ...the possibility of access to work, it's these regulations that allow it. Ladies and gentlemen! When the situation was very difficult, there were restrictions here in the Parliament, so that there would be fewer people. At that time there were restrictions and there were also committees, so that any Member who wanted to come could attend the meeting. At the moment, since the situation in Poland has improved... Has she improved? ...you know that every Member who wants to come in comes in. Exactly. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't know, 'cause I haven't been checked in a while when I get in here. [[Touchdown, applause]] Ah... That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! But you're in this room. And to Mrs Jachira: I remember such a video when you were playing, as the Polish Sejm is backwards, that it cannot be electronically. Then decide whether you want an electronic vote or not. A real one, not a parody. Ladies and gentlemen! If these solutions had not been introduced into the regulations, no anti-crisis shields would have been possible. It was because we had such solutions that we could proceed like this. Let me stress once again: this article deals with the abolition of... We read it. ...this article. 2 of that resolution concerns the abolition of the entire section, i.e. the rules governing situations such as the situation that we have now. That is why we ask that this time limit be removed, which does not mean that the Sejm will always be able to sit like this... And the epidemic can't be canceled. ...only in an epidemic situation... The epidemic will never end now. ...and in an emergency situation, i.e. if. Next year, an epidemic would come back, or it would happen that there would be a natural disaster. And then it would be possible to apply those rules. This does not mean that the provisions of this chapter can be applied at any time. Therefore, we ask that we simply delete the time limit, leave it in the Rules of Procedure so that, if there was ever the same situation as we had this year, such regulations can... That's something you can always do. ...to be able to pass laws that are so much needed. It'll be forever. Ladies and gentlemen! The epidemic... the disease's getting worse. So what? That doesn't mean that it can't happen that one of you is going to be quarantined next week and he won't be able to come to the Sejm. Thanks to these provisions, the PSL Members in quarantine were able to take part in the work of the Sejm, i.e. to vote because this is our fundamental right. And so, ministers, our Members, in a situation of quarantine, may not be excluded from attending meetings, voting, and that is our right. And also the law of ministerial assistants. If those rules were not in place, those Members who were quarantined would be deprived of that right. The Confederation said you didn't want anybody. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Somehow we're all here in the O.R. All of them? Well, not all of them. And the Confederation, I think this is the club... They asked a question, the Confederation asked a question, so I answer. I don't think the Confederation wants to do it the most, 'cause I think he's the leader in applying for a break. Therefore, once again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to reconsider. These provisions cannot be applied in a different situation. This is only a permit - your marshal can allow remote mode, announce its use at the sitting if we have any emergency states or epidemics as they are right now. And if the epidemic ends... That's why it won't end. It'll be forever. ...these regulations will not be used, but if in a year's time, in two years' time, in five years' time, it would happen that a state of emergency would be declared, we would have the rules ready, then we wouldn't have to think about how the Sejm should sit. I think this is a good, modern solution and, although there were some problems, it worked out. Thank you very much. That's why I'm asking you again. For all of us, for us parliamentarians who want to work, this is a good solution. The point is to give everyone the opportunity to participate, the Member who's in quarantine, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u182	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the project at first reading... I'd be happy to answer the question. I'd love to come back, but I'm out of time. You shouldn't have been political, you should have answered the question. Mr. Members, if you want to talk again, there's always an opportunity in the cockroaches, okay? I've already closed the discussion. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft resolution at first reading and to proceed immediately to second reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Traffic Law and some other laws (print No 388). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a proposal for changes which are expected by car owners for a very long time, a draft of changes which will, on the one hand, contribute to the elimination of certain administrative obligations, but on the other hand, will also contribute to the elimination of certain obligations relating to charges, with financial obligations which at the moment are a mandatory element, at the expense incurred by motor vehicle owners. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this speech, I would like to thank very warmly on behalf of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk all those who worked with the infrastructure department to create this package of changes. I would like to thank Minister Mark Zagórski, the Minister for Digitisation and the entire team of the Ministry of Digitisation, who also contributed to this bill with his willingness to change it. I would also like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Kaminski, Deputy Minister Mr Paweł Chiefernaker, because it was in this triangle of resorts that we set out these most important issues, the most important issues relating to this project. Ladies and gentlemen! I have 3 minutes 30 seconds left to present the most important assumptions of this project. Of course I won't, because it's not enough time. I hope that we will be able to talk more about this in the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. Of course, we are at your disposal when it comes to answering questions that will appear in a moment both in the club speeches and in the statements of individual Members. On the other hand, very briefly about these most important changes, about these most important benefits for vehicle owners in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! We remove the obligation to have a vehicle card, eliminate the obligation to have a sticker, allow the old license plates to remain unchanged, can be assigned to the owner who registers the car in Poland, so that this registration number can still follow it. This is, of course, related to administrative facilitation, but also to the absence of charges which are related to the replacement of registration plates. Another change, very important: the driver's license stays at home. There will be no obligation to carry a car, driver's license and show it during a road inspection. All these elements will be included in the electronic system. In case of inspection of whether it is a police officer, whether it is the inspector of the Road Transport Inspection who will be able to find in the system whether the person driving the vehicle actually has the authority to drive the vehicle, whether it is up to 3.5 t or later with a heavy vehicle. We allow temporary registration at the place of purchase of the car. The new owner of the vehicle will have the possibility of temporarily registering the vehicle by the registration authority competent for the place of purchase of the vehicle. Thus, if a vehicle is required to pass from the place of purchase and... or to receive it to the place of residence, the new owner will temporarily register the vehicle at the local, i.e. the one where he will choose, the old ones. He will no longer have to go to his place of residence to temporarily register a car bought in another part of the country. Why only temporarily? Another important element: ordering the registration of exported vehicles when a temporary licence is issued for the export of a vehicle abroad and making a declaration by the owner of the vehicle that the vehicle will be exported, the authority will register the vehicle from its own premises. This will allow you to sort out situations when a car is sold outside the country. Next item: Extension of the temporary end-of-life vehicle catalog with passenger cars. Another element: the owner of the vehicle, changing the place of residence in Poland, will not have to present proof of ownership of the vehicle, re-registration his car with another old man. The application for registration is sufficient for registration with current technical tests (the bell) and there will be no need to deliver the purchase contract to the office of the vehicle. Next facilitation: temporary permits stay at home. After the expiry of the temporary permits, the owner will not have to return the invalid documents to the office. Eleventh change: the dealer will be able to register the new car himself in online mode. Another change - and here the service of the Ministry of Digitalization - so-called. My vehicle, i.e. to enable the generation and printing of a report from the service made available by the Minister for Digitalization and to give this printout the power of the document confirming the data collected in the central vehicle register. And change one more - registration without a place for stamps will also be in circulation all the time. A number of very necessary, very important changes, administrative facilitations, financial reliefs. We're done with the anachronisms, we're done with the fees that are mandatory at the moment. I hope that the High Chamber will fully support this proposal for change and with us, together with the Government of Law and Justice, with the Ministry of Infrastructure, will implement these new regulations into the Polish legal order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oh, the Confederacy, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr King. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and certain other laws, print No 388. The proposed law amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws introduces a number of facilitations for citizens, including both vehicle owners and entrepreneurs, and thus reduces the scope of the tasks and administrative burden of the local authorities accordingly. Among the most important proposals initiated by the Minister of Infrastructure are the following regulations fulfilling social expectations. First, the design allows the vehicle owner to retain the existing vehicle registration number and registered registration plates at the request of the vehicle owner if the vehicle owner applies for registration of the vehicle which was registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Secondly, it abolishes the obligation to issue a vehicle card during the first registration process of the vehicle. Thirdly, it abolishes the obligation to submit evidence of ownership to the vehicle registration if there has been no change in the ownership of the vehicle since the last registration of the vehicle. It is also proposed to allow temporary registration of the vehicle at the request of the owner of the vehicle if the vehicle has to be travelled from the place where it is purchased or picked up also by the governor responsible for the place where the vehicle is purchased or picked up. The most important of the further facilitations to be mentioned is the exemption from the obligation to hold a driving licence on their own and, upon request, to present to the authorised road traffic control authority a driving licence. This amendment provides further facilitation for citizens, in addition to the Act of 9 May 2018 amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, the possibility of not having a registration or a temporary permit. In addition, it is possible to register by electronic means a new vehicle by an entrepreneur selling new vehicles on behalf of the buyer. The obligation to issue the so-called 'no' is also abolished. control stickers. In addition, the draft law also includes other changes governing the current system solutions at the law level to improve the legality of traffic in vehicles and the references of data collected in CEPiK. In view of these changes, the Road Traffic Law also provides for amendments to other laws, e.g. in the Act on the informationisation of activities of public entities, the Act on driving vehicles or the Act on the recycling of end-of-life vehicles. The Law and Justice Club intends to actively support the adoption of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u187	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The solutions proposed by the government as part of today's revision of the Road Traffic Law can cause not only additional problems for drivers, but also for authorities that register vehicles. Ha, ha, ha! For many years, we have been discussing the digitalisation of offices, which would help to deal with many everyday matters. The last few months, the time of the epidemic, have shown how it might be necessary to move procedures to the virtual world. The problem is that digitalisation should be introduced in a thoughtful and coherent manner, otherwise it can bring more harm than good. We perfectly remember the chaos in the offices caused the introduction of the CEPiK 2.0 system in autumn 2017. All over Poland, the communication departments were paralyzed and petents were in long queues. The proposed bill may be a repetition of this questionable entertainment. At first glance, the Act introduces a number of facilitations: it removes the vehicle card, the control sticker and introduces the possibility to retain registration plates when re-registration the vehicle. But the devil is in the details. In many respects, the burdensome registration procedure will remain unchanged. The vast majority of cases still cannot be dealt with from A to Z over the Internet, and many unnecessary formalities will remain. Why, for example? Will the owners of the old vehicles still have to show up at the office to show their license plate? So it's hard to talk about true digitalization. The authors of the project report that the solutions introduced will significantly reduce the tasks of vehicle registration authorities. However, that is not true, as the representatives of local governments clearly speak. I spoke to officials from Wielkopolska. They warned that the proposed law could make their work even more complicated because the solutions are not consistent and individual systems do not work together. Also the Polish County Association in February this year. The letter to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki called for the suspension of work on this law and warned against the chaos in the vehicle registration system. Officials and officials will have the same job, will still have to carry out similar administrative procedures and make decisions on registration of the vehicle. In addition, new tasks will be assigned to them, such as an assessment of the suitability of plate registration. Why are we proposing rules that create even greater chaos from the perspective of the authorities? At the same time, the income of local government units will be reduced. In Poznań it is estimated that the revenue from registration of vehicles will fall from PLN 18 to 12 million. For many smaller local governments, this may be a serious problem. Whose money is this? No, no, no, no, no. This is also warned by the Polish Districts Association. This means reducing the number of posts and in practice longer queues in the communication departments. The reduction of local income is unfortunately in line with the government's policy, which throws logs at Polish cities. That raises my firm objection. Therefore, I have another question: How does the government plan to offset the loss of local government income? The current system is inconsistent and needs real reform. I am afraid that the proposed changes may make the legislation even deeper. Drivers and officials deserve a complete solution to enable formalities to be carried out from start to finish through a single system. The law in this form does not stand at the level of the task. In addition, some useful solutions are delayed for an exceptionally long period of vacathio legis. Does this mean that this bill is just an attempt to please the drivers during the presidential campaign, and you really want to translate it into holy never? Like the PKS regulations we've been waiting for for, what, five years? This law requires very important changes, which is why the Civic Coalition Club is in favour of directing it to further work on the committee... No, not again. ...but provided that further work is based on dialogue with local governments, the social side and experts. We do not agree that the law is merely a smokescreen, which theoretically solves some issues and, on the other hand, hinders the lives of drivers and authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak with the position of the club Lewis. Please, I would like to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Simplifying vehicle registration conditions and modes is, in our view, the right thing to do, properly implemented, could be to relieve the pressure on offices and make life easier for citizens and citizens. Abolishing the obligation to hold and issue a driving licence during inspection, to hold a registration number or to introduce the possibility of leaving the vehicle's existing registration number when re-registration it makes sense and makes life easier for the Left. Therefore, the Left will vote in favour of further work on the bill presented. But when discussing changes in the Law about traffic, it is impossible not to remind about those that are really waiting for millions of Poles and Poles. It's about changes that would really save lives. About 3,000 people die each year on Polish roads. people, more than 35 thousand. loses health in road accidents. I have no doubt that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki is fully aware of this sad data. He is well aware that in the November exposé the Prime Minister changed road safety through all cases and promised significant changes to protect pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. These promised changes are not only important changes, but important, very easy and easy to implement quickly. The real priority of pedestrians on the lanes, the harmonisation of speed limits in the built-up area, the tightening of penalties for road bandits and the receipt of a driving licence for speeding 50 km/h or finally rebuilding dangerous places - are really simple changes. The delay in their implementation is the refusal to save the lives of thousands of Poles and Poles. And while the facilitation of registration procedures for drivers is reasonable and perhaps necessary, in fact, protection of life and health should be the top priority of the government. Due to the lack of changes in road safety promised by the Prime Minister, Polish roads are still one of the most dangerous in the European Union, and in the road safety ranking in the Union Poland has fallen to third place since the end. Today, more people die only on roads in Bulgaria and Romania. This should be a great remorse for the conscience of the current government, because it shows that Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Government of Law and Justice, like the government of the previous team, do not consider these necessary to protect the lives of change to be a priority. It's not about that. The sad reality of Polish roads and regular information about the tragedies caused by road bandits ignoring speed restrictions or driving vehicles after alcohol consumption are not mobilized to speed up work in this area. Unfortunately, there is still no mention of the investment programme for the reconstruction of hazardous sites, even though such an initiative could be an important element of the recovery plan for social and economic life following the crisis caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus. Get to the point. High Izbo! The government's draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law is not, according to the Left, a bad project. However, our doubts are raised by the fact that for the current government the issue of vehicle registration is more important than human life. On behalf of myself and the Left, I appeal to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Government to proceed as soon as possible with the key changes in the Road Law, those changes that we are really all waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Mr Stefan Krajewski to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u191	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government draft law amending the law - Road traffic law and some other laws, print No 388. We read that the purpose of amending the law is to simplify in the context of social expectations in terms of reducing costs and administrative burdens for vehicle owners. The draft law proposes the introduction of solutions that could be grouped together. These are solutions that will make it easier for citizens, vehicle owners, including entrepreneurs... It is about reducing administrative burdens, also for local authorities, due to the number of tasks. There will be an improvement in the conditions of legal vehicle traffic, referenceability of data collected in the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers, introduction of regulations regulating or modifying current system solutions at the law level. At the level of the law, the proposals that have already appeared at the meetings of the Legal Commissions at the Government Legislative Centre will be taken into account. Appropriate substantive provisions will be introduced as regards matters currently governed by the implementing rules. Of course, this whole package is supposed to make things easier, speed things up, but as we've seen many times here, when you start to sort things out, the more mess and chaos you're making. And here this change was already referred to by the Polish County Association, who said that the project in its submitted form was not assessed by the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government, which is a violation of the provisions of the Act of 6 May 2005 on the Joint Government and Local Government Commission and on the representatives of the Republic of Poland in the Committee of the Regions of the European Union. At the same time, it should be added that the previous version of the project was negatively assessed by the Group for Infrastructure, Local Development, Regional Policy and the Environment. It is difficult to say that this will be a reduced number of tasks for vehicle registration authorities, since, as has already been pointed out, the authority will have to assess the conformity of registration plates, and will also have to carry out activities related to the registration of these vehicles. Of course, citizens will be forced to go to office twice. Knowing life, officials will still be asking for these data and proper documents. It's like an e-proof that's supposed to work everywhere. Turns out, in offices, in banks, we're asked to take the evidence out of your pocket and physically show it. It's just like in the Polish comedy Kogel-mobel: the bathroom is, because what would they say that we don't have a bathroom? So why are we bringing it in? To show that it's gonna be electronically, that it's gonna work, and then it's gonna work, of course, and it's gonna work electronically, and it's gonna work in paper. If we are also talking about these important issues, we should also take into account what the environment is reporting. Here, for example, the Komisów.pl Association is talking about making it possible for all citizens and entrepreneurs to register vehicles online, and not only for car dealerships, to replace the obligation to register a vehicle within 30 days of the arrival from the territory of a Member State of the European Union with only the obligation to notify the acquisition of a vehicle and to allow the use of a professional registration card and a professional registration plate to be used also in the event of the exercise by operators of test vehicles not previously registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland or by passenger cars intended for sale and temporarily withdrawn from traffic. Therefore, it is important that each Pole has the opportunity to register a car, suspend for some time, not pay insurance when the car does not use it. Therefore, the position of the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz15 will be such as to direct this project to work in committees and to submit appropriate amendments if such amendments appear. Because the whole thing is supposed to make it better. Let's hope that happens, we'll be rooting for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will present the position of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u193	I think this will be the first major bill in this term, which I will be able to commend here with a clear conscience. So that such a breakthrough will be praised. I've tried to find some hooks and dangers in it, because you've gotten used to the fact that every recipe of yours has to be seen under the light ten times and wondering what you've encouraged in it, but so far I haven't found anything wrong. We're not losing our guard, but for now, it's a plus for you. As I saw this title on the agenda: the law on amending the Law on Road Traffic, it was already, to be honest, I expected the worst, that the ministry in a suicidal reflex just before the election unearthed this announced earlier loudly and here reminded already, but really stupid and harmful idea of subsequent changes in the rules concerning the order of crossing the road and restrictions for drivers. Fortunately, before the election, PiS hid the stick behind his back and waving a carrot, so small, but always, so I appreciate it. What do we got? Simplifying procedures, giving up archaic requirements for the presentation of original documents and carrying documents that every policeman can easily check in the database, which gives him much more certainty than watching a piece of plastic, which is easier to forge than entering in the central database. 20 years too late, but let's not be picky. It is wonderful that citizens will not have to prove to officials what they themselves know many times better from their own papers, because this is what it comes down to, submitting various printouts from databases that are available for a few clicks for the official. It is particularly commendable to introduce the possibility of registering a passenger vehicle. Finally, finally. It is a pity that while in such various bad and harmful projects you are quite bold sometimes, in such matters you act shyly as a boarding house, and after a little while you limit the possibility of registering a car for only 12 months, you impose various reservations. There is immediately a smell of light lobbying on the part of scrapping plants and vehicle control stations, which is quite economical, but quite clear in the explanatory statement, that we take into account here the interests of those who are to earn on these regulations. In the accompanying opinions, there is also a scream of outrageous junkyards who feel that they are running away with the ridiculous money guaranteed to them by the rules at the expense of the citizens. But I hope that you will not succumb to these wretched arguments that are raised there, and consistently, also after the elections, you will stand on the side of the citizens mercilessly exploited by these ridiculous rules so far when you have to cover the car standing somewhere on bricks in the workshop. I myself had a coincidence that for a year I couldn't use the car, and the entire annual OC contribution fucked, so I understand this pain. Unfortunately, these fearsome laws do not eliminate many problems. A man who would like to turn a car into a garden decoration or keep a detachable trailer on a plot as a children's cottage will still not be able to do so without kneeling to de facto officials, because they are officials, from scrapping stations. On the wipe of tears, you guarantee the vehicle inspection stations an additional technical test before re-registration. You're still not giving up on the obligation to exchange post-sale plates. By default, this duty stays. You can apply for it to be left behind. This is a minor facilitation in this regard. I'm saying, I don't want to be ungrateful, but I don't understand why we can't immediately implement a good solution in which we can assign the plates to a car or to a driver, just as it is in many other countries, and we would erase all this unnecessary bureaucracy. Apparently, in the race of pre-election ideas, there wasn't enough time to bring this to an end. Instead, we have some hasty cosmetics, but I said, "I'm happy for this little step towards normality." So that the Confederation, all indications of this, will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. And in the rest of the time, the Confederacy circles are Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. 50 seconds left. You're welcome. Oh, are you okay? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm terrified to speak because I'm used to being supportive of something, and if I condemn something, it goes away, so I'm terrified to support it. Maybe it's just a carrot before the election, and then it turns out it's not true. But it would be a good swallow. On the other hand, I wanted to speak for the Sejm, because it is not true that everything is working and only the Sejm is not working. Try to file an application in court, and you will see that the Sejm is completely open in comparison with the courts. The courts have only just stood up for themselves in front of people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Reading into the draft law on amending regulations regarding registration of cars, I come to the conclusion that in Poland this will be a breakthrough event in this field. That's why I have a question. According to a proposal from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government, will the person buying the new car be able to register it online in the car dealership in which it purchased the car without unnecessary driving and wasting time queueed in the communication departments of county offices or city offices? And I have a second question. I would also like to ask: Would it be possible for a person buying a used car to leave a license plate for which the car was registered by the previous owner, and after registering the car could still use these license plates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u198	Thank you very much, sir. Another question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Perhaps, if we work hard in the Committee on Infrastructure on this project, he will really come out of the Sejm very decent and Poles will like it, but of course very much work ahead of us. On the other hand, Minister, I have a question about this situation. Well, in Poland, there are many - probably hundreds of thousands, if not millions - vehicles that do not exist in the central vehicle register. They are assigned to a particular citizen, registered and theoretically this citizen is in possession of such a vehicle, while we all know that this is one great illusion. These vehicles do not exist for various reasons, even physically often. And the question is whether the Ministry is working, because it would be a good opportunity to regulate such a situation, i.e. the possibility of certain reporting and cleaning of state databases which (The Bell) contain false records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u200	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u201	Dear Minister, Why in Poland can not the user declare without the need to register, that e.g. from September to May does not operate a vehicle that is withdrawn from traffic? There is a whole mass of vehicles requiring registration, inspection and insurance, which are used seasonally: plows, rackets, motorhomes and hundreds of collectors' vehicles, which are put away from autumn to garage and pulled out only late spring or summer. The next question is this. As far as the permissible total mass of the trailer vehicle is concerned, in Poland, these regulations go back about 30 years, [[Applause]] times when no driving support, braking, etc. systems have yet to exist. No medium-sized SUV owner who doesn't have category C can go on the road nowadays, because there are regulations that he can pull a trailer with a weight of not more than 750 kg, or a trailer constructed for a small Fiat in the 1970s. [[The bell, the applause.]] Most drivers ignore these rules, but we should adapt the rules to the current realities, not the other way around. If we only expanded this range by 200 kg, what's on the road today would be legalized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] If the Minister... Okay, but we're out of time. ...because I'm interested in a large group of my constituents, he could answer it in writing, and I'll be obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u203	Minister! Now that we assume that these changes will be made, I have this question: Wouldn't it be worth considering some government tasks? Since we are slowing down the capacity of the district oldities, and the Government of Law and Justice is expanding the central government's apparatus more and more, it would be possible to delegate certain tasks to the counties. Surely the cost of maintaining one job and one official in the county city is much lower than in Warsaw. If it's gonna be easier for the citizens, if it's gonna be better for the local government, okay. But the loss of income will definitely be because the counties will not have the proceeds of different fees, so order them to perform additional tasks... Because you like to be centralized, and it's time to think about decentralisation and jobs there, in county cities, in municipal cities, in rural areas (the bell). Thank you very much. We've gotta take out the counties. Then do it. We're doing it. You have to act, not talk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just have a question for the government, if once it's started so well, it wouldn't be possible to do some kind of reform, for example. in education, because it is still a PRL-owska education, or, let's say, in the health service which is still a PRL-owska, there socialism works in the best. So if you can do such a counter-revolution here, then you could do it in those areas that are, frankly, even more important than traffic. Health care is e.g. More important. This is a harder reform. But educational - this way, you can make it snap, only you need to want it. I see the PiS is trying to do something. We hope that in these basic areas too... Why can't you do that, Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u207	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The proposed changes such as the abolition of the obligation to carry a driving licence or the retention of the vehicle's existing registration number when re-registered are understandable. However, I remind you today, on 19 June 2020, that on 1 July 2020 the noisy changes in pedestrian priority and higher penalties for drivers announced by the Government of Law and Justice and the Prime Minister of Moravia were to enter into force. As far as we know, the project is stuck in the Ministry of Infrastructure at the stage of public consultation and has not yet reached the Sejm. Boo... So I remind the government to lean on improving the comfort of drivers, not to forget pedestrians who are constantly dying on Polish roads. Many of these tragedies could be avoided if you took on the regulations that you promised and needed. If this task is too much for you, the Left will be happy to help. There's really nothing to wait for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have no doubt that the intention of the designers was to simplify many procedures for vehicle owners, for road users, but often better is the enemy of good. I would like to point out that the project was not covered by a fair public consultation and was not submitted for opinion by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. That's why he looks good. The Polish Districts Association also critically referred to the records. High Izbo! Self-governments are burdened with responsibilities, depriving them of their sources of income. And it's not in the interests of the citizens either. Despite the slight abolition of the tasks of the registration authorities, the question arises as to whether the projectors had foreseen a level playing field of income for the counties that would not be able to provide adequate jobs and therefore the waiting time in the communication departments would be extended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Great. The driver's license stays at home - a super idea. Registration plates can also stay - a super idea. What else would I wish for, it is no longer the Minister's influence - in the Podlaskie Voivodeship more roads and highways. That's where I'm going back. I was there today. Great. My question: Is the government considering making it possible for all citizens and entrepreneurs, car owners, including second-hand vehicles, to register vehicles online instead of restricting themselves to new vehicles? If so, what prevents these solutions from being introduced in the new law? I'm asking you to answer that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask for information when the government will try to help local governments and solve a problem that is very touching them, namely the problem of increasingly popular, especially in large cities, electric scooters. Their users are treated as pedestrians... Yes, sir. ...run the sidewalks at speed Sometimes 65 km/h. It would be worth a moment to think about and settle these issues... We don't have enough regulation. ...especially since they've been processed and discussed. The solution is probably simple, but you have to put some work and effort into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u214	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions on this project, from the voters, you can say. First of all, we know very well how the CEPiK system works, how it started and how it works to this day sometimes with breaks. And the question is: Will not the lack of obligation to carry a driver's license with you result in citizens having to wait a long time for the verification of a driver's license in a remote system that works differently and works at intervals? Second question. I wanted to ask you about the remote registration of vehicles, how it will actually work, because it seems to improve the situation - especially in these counties, and I come from one where the number of registered vehicles per capita is greater - this system, first, must be relatively coherent and secondly, should be operated remotely. And the question is, where is this thread going to go? Did you go further to the communications departments just [[♪ The bell ♪]] in some extremely overloaded counties, will it actually be remotely operated to unload traffic in these most difficult places? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u216	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. First of all, Minister Rafał Weber will answer the questions on behalf of the Government of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the discussion, for the questions, for the speeches. We will divide our answers into two parts: I - one part, the other part - the one connected with digitalisation - Minister Wanda Buk, who is present with us in the plenary room and whom I thank once again very warmly for working with us on this project. Ladies and gentlemen! I have left some space for you, thinking that one of you will count the financial savings that will be generated by this project in the pockets of Poles, vehicle owners who will not be subject to certain obligations that are now imposed on them or once imposed on them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is nearly 100 PLN less for those activities which they will no longer be obliged to do when this law enters into force. In my view, this is a great deal, especially since in some statements, Members of the opposition spoke about the depletion of the revenues of local government units which are currently engaged in communication tasks. There is even an example that within a year one of the local authorities will lose PLN 6 million, i.e., dear state, PLN 6 million will remain in the pocket of the citizen. He will not return to the Treasury, he will not be at the disposal of the Minister of Infrastructure or at the disposal of the Minister of Finance, he will remain in the pocket of the citizen. This is what this project is all about - financial savings and time savings. Applause We are determined to make these changes. I hope that the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure for the Civic Platform will convene the meeting as soon as possible. We are ready as the Ministry of Infrastructure to talk about these changes in peace, with more time opportunities, as well as to respond to the state, but also to the local government and other doubt environments. All questions that have been raised here, for which a written reply has been requested, will certainly be answered in writing. I invite you to discuss this at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. From other topics that have been raised by your fellow Members, particularly in the field of the BRD - dear country, I am able to pass on the statistics that we have on the first 5 months of 2019 concerning the number of accidents and events on Polish roads. The general drop is about 20%. Falls in accident numbers - minus 25%. Drop in the number of deaths - minus 18%. Long live the coronavirus! Drop in the number of wounded - minus 30%. Collision decrease - minus 23%. These are the declines that took place from 1 January to the end of May 2020. We invest in infrastructure all the time, not just in the network of high-speed roads. It is nearly 500 investment titles on the already existing network: walkways, walking-bike lines, pedestrian crossings. We're lighting up the bus bays. These actions are being taken all the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Minister Wanda Buk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u219	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I took note of the questions that were being asked about digitalization. Mr Paul asked if, in the case of online registration, the dealer would be able to register online. Yeah, we're predicting that, we're gonna authorize a dealer to buy a car to make a registration. Mr Suchoń asked for registered cars and whether, therefore, we intend to modify the system in any way to mark them. These cars are already marked as archival in the system today. We know they don't drive, and that's how it works. We do not anticipate further changes in this area. Mr Szewiński referred to the loss of local government revenue due to the fact that there will no longer be an obligation to put this additional sticker on the window, on which we have the registration number. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that we are an event in Europe: we have a registration number on both the license plate and the sticker. To be honest, whether or not to maintain this sticker was perhaps one of the more turbulent discussions at the permanent committee meeting. She's 18.50. This is an expense for the citizen completely redundant. Therefore, these activities are completely unnecessary for old times (the bell). The ancients have 24 months to prepare for this. At the same time they will have lower revenues, okay, but they will not have to allocate so-called. Human resources to deal with this task. Mr Krutul asked if, at a later stage, we also provided for the possibility of online registration after buying second-hand cars. What we're introducing today is the first stage. Of course, further functionalities will be gradually added. Mrs Hennig-Kloska asked about the possibility of verification. Madam President, I have recently had the dubious pleasure that the police who stopped me verified in the system whether I had a driver's license. The system is already stable today - after many years of work on it, it took a while - and I hope that will not change. Thank you. [[Applause]] What's the hold-up?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u220	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mirosław Suchoń as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm explaining that this wasn't about cases involving vehicles that were registered and marked in the central vehicle register database as archive, because we all know that they are. I asked about the situation in which vehicles do not exist, there is no compulsory insurance for them, while they were not registered and in the CEPiK database they exist as functioning. The question is whether there is work to be done that will enable such owners where the vehicles physically do not exist and there is no e.g. a scrapping document, taking out the registration and closing of this subject. If you are not ready, I will ask for a written reply, perhaps even better, if it were in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, do you answer or are we already dating in writing? In writing. You're welcome. Your Marshal, may I ask you a question? But in what way, my fellow Member? I wanted to ask because the Minister didn't answer the second question. In writing. Well, we hear you're gonna answer in writing. I asked how the remote registration system would work. The Minister didn't say anything about it. Okay, but you can hear that the answer will come in writing. Mr. President, in what mode? In corrigendum mode. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u223	Dear Minister, I would like to assure you that I have not asked you about stickers and I am not in favour of imposing any additional charges on our country's citizens when these charges should not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u224	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, contained in print No 388, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! I'm declaring a time-out. 5:30. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 08 hours 18 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft law on the Polish Tourist Bone and the draft law on the instrument of financial support for households presented by the President of the Republic of Poland for the implementation of holiday plans in the years 2020 to 2022 in connection with the pandemic COVID-19, print No 429. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law on the instrument of financial support for households for the implementation of holiday plans in the years 2020 to 2022 in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, print No 422, and on the draft law on Polish Tourist Bone presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, print No 423. The report is contained in print No 429. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 18 June 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the draft Print Act No 422 sent to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Sejm at its 13th meeting of 19 June 2020, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the draft law from print No 423 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has carried out its first reading today. Both projects were first read, with printing project 423 being a basic printing. Ladies and gentlemen! A number of amendments were tabled during the discussion on draft legislation. It can be said that the amendments are related to the introduction of a tourist voucher, which aims to further support the tourism industry with very strong negative effects of stopping tourism in Poland, and to the condition that accompanied and accompanied the Law and Justice, and to the President for the past years, who are already behind us, determinedly supporting families in raising children. Therefore, these two objectives in the Tourist Bone Act are very tight, binding and both objectives will be achieved. Remember, because I am a man of education, how much time we spent on committees, so that children would go on school trips, because there are basically no environments where all children can afford to go on a historic trip. Now's the chance. Beautiful schools will also be able to direct these measures with their parents to educational purposes. The amendments that have been tabled could be said to be the main concern of extending the range of beneficiaries of this voucher to include further groups, mainly pensioners, and - these amendments have gone very far - including all employees. Unfortunately, all these demands were for huge amounts - 32 billion or 18 billion. In fact, for this reason, the members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy did not welcome these amendments. The next amendments concerned an increase in the value of the voucher, mostly twice. They were also not supported by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. The Commission accepted two amendments. The other amendments are included in the committee's report as minority proposals. There are nine of them. I urge the High Sejm to announce the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u226	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft Polish Tourist Bone Act No 423 presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. Mr. President! Thank you very much for the Polish tourist voucher announced and discussed at the beginning of April. This is another example of credibility and keeping a promise given to Poles by the President. The Act supports the Polish tourism industry in such a difficult period caused by the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. In addition to the instruments contained in the anti-crisis and financial shield, it is another programme dedicated to this industry. It should be emphasized that the Polish tourist voucher once again meets the needs of Polish families, providing real support in the organisation and financing of recreation of about 6 million children, including 300,000 children. children with disabilities. It is a good thing that the project also includes provisions to support local authorities in conducting and financing their investments. The beneficiaries of the Act will be all tourist entrepreneurs, from agrotourism farms to hotels. The amount of PLN 4 billion which has so far been transferred to the tourism industry under all the shields deserves attention, which was a real aid for about 15 thousand. beneficiaries. Only thanks to the great effort and good cooperation of the Government of the United Right and President Andrzej Duda, Poland manages to carry out safely through the global crisis. The main factor determining the significant reduction in the economic losses associated with the virus was the rapid reaction of the Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice, to what happened in the world. A large aid package protected Polish companies from bankruptcy and serious job losses. I will remind you that today there are less than 1 million unemployed, while in 2015 there were almost 2 million unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! President Andrzej Duda, together with the government of the United Right through groundbreaking social and solidarity programs, invests in Polish families, in Polish business. This law is another program that will support Polish families. Thank you again for this bill and we believe that it will serve Polish families and the tourism industry well, but this is not the last word for the tourism industry. The next programmes for this industry are already in preparation, because we know that this industry is one of the sectors that have suffered the most from the global epidemic. The Law and Justice Club welcomes this law. Dear Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I apply for the third reading of the draft Act on the Polish Tourist Bone, in print No 422, 423 and 429, without referring to the committee amendments and proposals submitted to this bill and for the service of their Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u228	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Ireneus Raś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Of course, I disagree with the fact that this is a groundbreaking project, a program. This is a minimum programme, which is why my political environment, despite not having taken up any debate on our project, is a common project, when it comes to directing this program to Polish tourism business, when it comes to Poles, did not want to share, wanted to activate the energy of Poles, so that it would save in the coming months, the next 2 years, the potential of the Polish tourism economy, Polish tourism companies. Only a project addressed to all Poles could do this. That's the scale we're dealing with. Today, what you're proposing, after analysis... I mean, the president proposes it, but we know it was prepared at the Ministry of Development. Let me remind you once again: there was a better proposal than what we are talking about today, a proposal from Minister Emilewicz to support the 1000+ bon. The Minister has repeatedly said that he will transfer PLN 7 billion to this project this year. Some of her co-workers said that there were 9 billion PLN. For this reason, the Civic Coalition submitted a project for PLN 18 billion broken down into three financial years, but for all. We take into account how important for tourism social group - not only in Poland - are pensioners who, especially outside tourist peaks, often benefit from better prices, fill hotels, guesthouses and enjoy other tourist events, satisfying these needs in situations not as extraordinary as today. Today we have an emergency situation, which means there should be more resources. Tourist offices in Poland, ladies and gentlemen, did not fall because the High House agreed that they would not have to immediately return the funds paid to the offices for tourist events that did not take place due to COVID-19. Polish money protected all major tourist offices in Poland from bankruptcy. So all Poles deserve some support. This support should take the form of a check or a voucher, we agree, a universal bonus. That's a pretty big deal. I don't want to go back to certain elements. It is about the pro-family nature of our check, which you did not take seriously in the debate. He'd be better served. I would like to say that, given all the circumstances, it is, of course, you today - Minister, I am speaking here through you to the President - that you should call this project: the 13th payout of 500+, directly, not saying that it is a tool to support the tourism industry. Perhaps, if we add perspective there, this industry from this mechanism, which, I hope, will change after a calm debate, not in the peak of the election campaign, in the Senate... Let us agree that in the Senate - there is pluralism in various centres and parliamentary clubs - we will take a serious debate to get a better draft on a check or a tourist voucher back to the Sejm. Since we do not agree to this arrangement of cases, we make 16 amendments. We want to go back first and foremost to making the check universal. We also have other important amendments that we will decide on in the vote. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u230	Thank you, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to the High House by Dariusz Wieczorek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the course of this discussion in the committee points to one thing... Someone left a pen, probably an MP. No, no, I got it. This is where I leave it. President. Oh, maybe. The course of discussion in the committee shows that we are actually dealing with an electoral project. Indeed, this is what has happened in our country recently, that actually the government is not needed. All we need is the president, because the president initiates everything: and the solidarity supplement, and the tourist voucher. Of course, the truth is, the Left is clear and clear that it is better to have something than to have nothing. There is no doubt about that, but just to be clear - the rapporteur has already said so - those amounts that are given here, 4 billion zlotys, that is a drop in the sea of needs in terms of saving the tourism industry. I want to point that out again. Perhaps you do not understand this principle because you do not come from tourist regions, and I am from West Pomeranian Voivodeship. The truth is, if the equipment factory stops, the TV factory stops, then the sale can be made later, because when the economy comes up, there will be more money on the market, it will produce and sell more. In tourism, if in March, in April, no place to stay was sold in May, then it won't come back. It's just a manifest loss, and that's what we need to be aware of. There were different amounts for these receipts. Of course, it's a question of whether it's 6%. GDP, more or less, while really GUS data say that widely understood tourism, including trade and everything that drives the Polish economy, is revenue at the level of PLN 124 billion, e.g. in 2019 In this regard, it would indeed be necessary to increase this aid clearly. The same applies to social groups and here we have signalled this problem, for example, with regard to pensioners and pensioners. I can see there's no agreement either, and that's, I think, a very bad solution. Plus, I think it hasn't been discussed, because we have, as I mentioned, June. Here's the question. Again we have another burden for the Social Insurance Institution in terms of additional work, we have an additional burden for the Polish Tourist Organization. It's also extra costs. It is enigmatic that these additional costs will, of course, be covered from this fund, but once again we must point out that these institutions will have additional tasks, just as certain tasks will be carried out by local authorities. I asked for curiosity whether the Polish government consulted with local governments. Such a meeting took place today about an hour. 14. Therefore, this is the best indication of the procedure in which this project is being prepared. Neither the tourism industry nor the local authorities were simply consulted. And that is also an accusation to you that you are doing this quickly, in this electoral scarf, and here, of course, you can make a lot more mistakes than talking and discussing with the stakeholders themselves. Of course, there's also a change... because it's already in all these COVID laws, that's the very interesting thing that they change in general 40 other laws. This is where the de facto two changes. And there is the proposal, the amendment that the rapporteur spoke about - there is support for the investment tasks of local self-government units. Great, this is a good solution, only once again: if decisions are to be taken by the government and a resolution is to be taken on this matter, then we would like to know what the scope of this aid is planned for these investment tasks for local governments, so that it is not used in some way unfairly again. Finally, there were some reservations of the Legislative Bureau on our amendments, and they were among the minority amendments. However, in order to clarify all this, we are also making amendments (the bell) - it is about matters that the Legislative Office drew attention to - to this draft law at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u232	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15 Mr Jarosław Rzepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u233	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! We spoke on the committee today about the President's proposal. I regret, as my previous speaker said, that she did not have such an opportunity, the chance of a directional committee - a tourism committee. Then we could really find out what tourism is needed today, ladies and gentlemen. And tourism today says it needs a lease vacation, a credit vacation for the next period. It expects Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to start operating loans, preferably with a minimum interest rate and a fairly long payout period, to reduce VAT on the services of the organization, to extend until the end of the year the funding for the salary of its employees, to extend the funding to remuneration, what I said, also with regard to the Social Security Office, can be said until the end of the year. The tourism industry, ladies and gentlemen, today, thanks to the tourist voucher, will not bounce back. This is a process that will have to take much longer than vacation time, because this holiday will soon pass, and the tourism industry will not be able to bear what is ahead of us for much longer, including those jobs that it has really lost. In Western Pomerania, many people work in tourism, in hotels, in various places, in gastronomy. Today, we are observing how much difficulty this area is facing. Just because some actions have been launched doesn't mean that you could get results from day to day. That's not true. The Prime Minister said today how much GDP is in this area, how many people work in tourism. This support that has been generated, Prime Minister, must last longer. There are industries that just won't lift up, and it's very much needed. Mr President's idea, I agree with my previous speakers here, is very strong in the election. That's what Poles don't deny. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments, and maybe not good, because this should be the action that accompanies us all year round, we should think about it all the time, not only when there are elections, because then we finish construction very quickly, cut ribbons, announce everything. It's a little different later. This project, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat this once again, divides Poles. He should not share, he should join Poles. Therefore, we as Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland will make further amendments. For example, ladies and gentlemen, you have assigned this money only to children, and sometimes, in some hotels or in the case of catering services, these children are exempt from certain charges. And then what? Wait till they're old enough to pay for it? But it won't be a voucher anymore. And that is also the thing that we will try to make as a club in subsequent amendments, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able to discuss this. You can discuss it. In the Senate, you'll be discussing 30 days. Because you're in a hurry. You're in a hurry because your support for Andrzej Duda is falling. And maybe, ladies and gentlemen, it would be better if you didn't go to the United States because it will cost us again, Poles, several billion zlotys - several billion zlotys. Perhaps it would be better to agree with those who say that the President should stay in Poland and finally take care of those things that Poles are interested in and which Poles are disturbing. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope we can continue the discussion. I regret that we couldn't discuss at the tourism committee meeting... There is no such tourism committee. ...that we could not listen to industry representatives who would suggest what solutions are most expected by them today. Well, unfortunately, that's not always the case. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, today in the committee, we proposed a liquidity fund for the tourism area with concrete solutions that would certainly help this industry. You've been insensitive at all, and you haven't looked at the exact solutions that we've been talking about since you introduced the first shield. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First shield. Thank you, sir. A liquidity fund for tourism - this is the solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesz will speak in the name of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u235	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot has been said recently about destroying the Polish family and it must be said directly: this country is destroying the Polish family, because it is the country that destroys the Polish economy with taxes, inflation, debt of future generations. But it's just a side effect. The real reason is in the election hand. Let's see: the 2015 presidential and parliamentary elections - you promised and implemented 500+, the 2018 local elections - a few days earlier was paid a trip+, the 2019 elections to the Europarliament - just before the 13th pension was paid, the 2019 parliamentary elections - a brilliantly cumulative payout of 500+ for 3 months, or 1500 PLN. And the presidential elections on May 10 - 10 days earlier were to be paid another 13th pension, but that the elections had shifted, you had to come up with another hand, and it's 500+ in the form of a tourist voucher. I wonder how it is that you call yourselves conservatives, and you are implementing the program of western rotten social democracy. I know who's guilty - the Civic Platform, really. Tusk's fault. Look, the last three programs: 13 pensions, 500+ for each child and tourist voucher. Who invented it and promised it? Thirteenth pension and 500+ for each child - Grzegorz Schetyn 21 October 2017 Mechanisms are different. If the lyricists and the lyricists are doing a rotten social democracy program, why do we need a left? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u236	Thank you very much. And in the second part, Mr Grzegorz Braun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u237	God bless you all! He's broadcasting Moscow. God's blessing to all hardworking fathers, families' mothers, whether their Lord has blessed their offspring or not. What about Grandpa and Grandma? We wish all the best to all those who offer services and tourist events, but this project was about it, this pre-election bribery and also selecting Poles, sharing them, as in the socialists, on the worse and better. But in order not to report everything on the committee for four or even five hours, your marshal's down, I'm just gonna pay attention to the drop. It's about the drop that happened right before the end of the job. The vice-president who referred here read the article. 41c. This project, which MEPs did not get earlier, translating from Polish to ours, is such a 5+ turbo shield for the government. It's an articulation so that the government can spend any amount for any purpose under the slogan: local government investments. And when all the participants in this session were amazed to learn about this amendment... It was only after a moment that I realized that this is a helicopter amendment, that this is the helicopter for the Prime Minister so that she could fly over Poland and spread carpet money. So I hurried up with an amendment, which is... It simplifies. ...precisely and clearly articulates. I tabled this amendment, Art. 41d that everyone should be healthy, beautiful and rich, and that Minister Emilewicz would have her own helicopter to spread money over Poland at every call. [[Applause]] Rules of Procedure I have tabled this amendment to the chairman of the committee, who has not put this amendment to the vote irregularly and unlawfully. She sent a psychiatrist. Therefore, Your Marshal, I am making this amendment now. Procedeed, proceed, vote. At the next meeting we will go further and join any bill, bill on any subject, such an amendment, for example. The government could do whatever it wanted without asking the Sejm about anything. [[Applause]] Don't say it, because they're gonna take it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u238	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I close the list of Members willing to ask a question. As the first question you ask Mr Przemysław Koperski, the club Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! The tourist voucher for the inhabitants of the Śląskie voivodship should not amount to PLN 500, should not amount to PLN 1000, and should amount to PLN 1 million, round 1 million Czech kroner. That's about 170,000 today. zł. And the question is, are you prepared for this? You don't know why so much? Today, this is the maximum administrative penalty for the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship, who were caught in the Czech Republic, also those traveling by holiday transit to Austria or Croatia. And this is an abnormal situation. This abnormal situation is the result of the scandalously inept foreign policy of our government towards the southern neighbour. Prime Minister Morawiecki! I want to know if you're finally gonna make a call to Andrzej Babis. I'd also like to ask the Minister of Health of Szumowski if... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. ...he's already spoken to Adam Vojtech. This is the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] 4.5 million people are waiting for these talks. Open the borders. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u240	The next question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left Club. You're welcome. There isn't. There isn't? Then another question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I have to say that I am a Member representing the region across the tourist region: Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyzna, whole Podbeskid, pszczyńska land. These are places where there are many small, medium-sized tourist entrepreneurs. And of course, if we look at the President's proposal, it is better to have something than to have nothing, although I must say that entrepreneurs themselves will pay at least half the support for it, because they pay taxes: VAT, income tax. So I wouldn't charge that amount, Your Honor. On the other hand, I think that today we need to ask a completely different question, because in the Silesian Voivodeship, as my previous speaker said, today we have a huge problem with the relationship with our friends in the Czech Republic. The Polish government does nothing, the border is closed, you cannot invite tourists to us, to Poland... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. Time's up. ... Poles can be punished. The question is, what will the government do about it when it will finally really take care of our tourism industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u243	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a tourist bon, but I would like to remind the High House that in Poland there are also pensioners and pensioners. We have, ladies and gentlemen, the latest data. After March valorization it turned out that in Poland 333 thousand. pensioners do not receive a minimum pension. This pension is less than PLN 1200 gross. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! How did it happen that you forgot about this social group in the holiday plans of Poles? Why are you ruling her out? Why are pensioners, who are also most condemned to extreme poverty, to extreme poverty, which grows in this age group, currently excluded from the possibility after an epidemic crisis, the state of the epidemic, really are trapped in their homes? They'd love to go, even for a week... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. ...somewhere in the farmhouse. That bon would be very useful. Why do you rule out pensioners? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u244	Thank you. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Bon 500+, a tourist voucher, even though it is the support needed for the tourism industry, is also a confirmation of the government's long-standing policy of exclusion. Again, a large social group is excluded from this project. Where, then, are all those who pay taxes today? Where are people without children, where are pensioners and pensioners, where are young people paying taxes, where are students? Don't they get the rest? Finally, it must be said clearly: Poles co-finance social programmes, but this programme is cut to the election, and a large social group is constantly overlooked. Why are you shutting down more social groups from this project? And I ask for specific, detailed information (the bell), why these people are excluded from this project. Thank you very much. Because they don't vote for PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u246	Thank you. Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The so-called tourist voucher was set up a few weeks ago in the amount of 1,000. zł, but you realized that the elections were coming, which is why this is supposed to be a presidential initiative. But it's not gonna do you any good. In fact, we are dealing with a one-off advantage that is losing value as a result of a continuous increase in delivery prices of 500+. The explanatory memorandum also states that giving parents and carers of disabled children additional benefits in the form of a voucher of 500 PLN is a form of real, effective, institutional support. It is only a pity that the disabled are reminded of those who rule only before the elections. Unfortunately, it is. The future of the tourism business is still on the line. A recovery plan developed jointly by the industry and by the government is needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's the public consultation? When will the tourism industry finally get real help? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u248	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In recent weeks it has been loud about the initiative of Deputy Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz to introduce a travel voucher of 1 000. zł. As it soon turned out, the government withdrew from the idea. That is why I was surprised to hear President Andrzej Duda say, at the election rally, that every family will receive a 500+ tourist voucher for each child before the holiday. This idea surprises us that this is the second project after the solidarity supplement, which the President wants to implement just before the elections. Therefore, why did the government withdraw from its original idea? Is the answer simply that the government intends to support the President once again in the election campaign once again after accepting the solidarity allowance? Why not consider the proposals of the Civic Coalition, which included not only children, but among others. Older people? Thank you very much. In my opinion, it's not a desire to help, it's to buy votes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u250	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Tourist voucher - okay. But, ladies and gentlemen, Poland is aging, in two decades we will be the second Florida, a place where the vast majority are pensioners. So when is the program supporting the increase of children in Poland? I regret to say that in the home town of Bialystok in Podlaskie voivodeship, where the first child was born thanks to the in vitro method, when it comes to self-government, in which most have no Law and Justice, but the Civic Platform - yes, ma'am - so far there is no refund for the less affluent. So that I call on the Civic Coalition club to influence its councillors and adopt support for the less affluent in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, in the capital of this voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome. Your Marshal, can we have another... I closed the list. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u253	Yeah, time flies. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Gdańsk Tourism Organization and Pomeranian Regional Tourist Organization carried out studies aimed at analysing the effects of the epidemic on companies in the tourism industry of Pomeranian Voivodship, the voivodship of which I am a Member. The survey was attended by 250 companies from the tourism industry. Most, 63% the companies indicated that financial assistance was necessary from both the government and the local authorities. In this respect, requests were most often made for exemptions, reductions or distributions during payments. Local taxes - 38% mentioned this respondents, ZUS contributions - 18, support in the maintenance of employees - 12, rents - 10. A travel voucher of 500 PLN is a good pre-election procedure, but does not respond to the real needs of the tourism industry and is also not enough, real help for families. Such a bon (the bell) should be at least 1 000. zł and such value is claimed by the Left. $2,000, $2,000.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Probably as well as millions of Poles and Poles, you know the meme on which there is a dog drinking juice from a cardboard box, on which there is an inscription: juice for morons. Description of this photo: when you are a childless, working and unpunished citizen over the age of 26, and you believed that the government would give you one thing, which is this holiday voucher. The question is simple: what do you say? Reduced PIT. And a lowered PIT. And at this point, What do you say? First, you give me $1,000. zł for everyone, then you change your mind and just point to one group. Where are the retirees and where are the other people who also deserve the money they had previously worked out? Thank you. [[Applause]] And where are middle-aged people...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr... Excuse me. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Low meat content in this election sausage, all skins, cuts and cartilage, not suitable for barbecue. Before the pandemic 40% children did not benefit from the services of tourism companies. The families of these children, despite the gift, will still not be able to send the children to rest. You can't count on how many children couldn't use remote teaching because of the lack of a computer and the Internet, and these will be the same children whose vouchers will not pass activation in the PUE ZUS. Only 40% of public administrations use the Internet Citizens, and that's even worse. And you forgot about the retirees. [[Oh, my God, did you guys remember how bossy you were?]] You forgot your pensioners because it would cost you too much. They'll get their 13th pension. You also forgot about cultural institutions whose own influences in the first two months of the pandemic amounted to zero, and now there are no groups organized, so these influences are still miserable. The basis for tourism is the institutions (The Bell) of culture: museums, theatres... Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. ...places where a voucher could be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u258	Member, time is up. Mr Artur Łącki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is not a travel bona bill. This is the next social act, like 500+, 13th retirement, 14th retirement. I now say to all those in the tourism industry, don't think that the President leaned over your problems. No, he didn't lean down, it just came out. Coronavirus caught us in the pre-vacation period, so we got a holiday voucher. For your... money wasn't for anything. If the coronavirus caught us in the fall period, we'd get a carbon voucher. That's what it looks like. Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I'm addressing you. You have to make the law right. Question. I'm asking you why you forgot the inner sea border. We've opened the land border, and tourists can come to us, crossing the land border... I beg you, on the subject, sir, to the point. ...and when it comes to the sea border, which is the yachts that come to the Polish marinas, everyone has to sit on the yachts for 14 days, quarantine. I'm finally asking you to... Mr... ...created [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law is really good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u260	Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have another bill. The election didn't happen on May 12th... Ten o'clock. ...you have to buy votes and you promise to buy 1 000 first, then 500, then 1 000. For everyone, 500 for everyone. It turns out 500 for the chosen. All right, let's get these kids to go, get some rest. But what's next? Ladies and gentlemen, the tourism industry was excluded for 3 months completely from its functioning. Such municipalities e.g. like Szklarska Poręba, Świeradów-Zdrój, Karpacz, Podgórzyn, which nobody came to. Unfortunately, they didn't have any revenue, because businessmen didn't pay CIT or PIT, property tax didn't affect because people didn't have anything to pay. How can we help these people? To Mr Braun: instead of God's blessing, he may [[♪ The bell ♪]] God will pay you better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u262	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to believe that the proposal for this law is not just a pre-election trick. I believe that the President, before making any further promises, should be able to account honestly for those already made. When the president signed a bill transferring PLN 2 billion to TVP, he promised to create a health fund. Where's the fund? There isn't. The president promised to raise the tax-free amount to 8,000. zł. Where's the amount? There isn't. The president promised 100,000. apartments for young people. Where are these apartments? There isn't. The president promised we'd be the power to build ships. See what a rusty keel looks like in a shipyard in Szczecin. I would like to ask the representatives of the President when these promises have already been made [[♪ The bell ♪]] The president's finally gonna get it done because it feels like it's just a pre-election trick. Thank you. [[Applause]] ...you resent us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft Act on the Tourist Bone of President Andrzej Duda is a mere fake, in addition to poor quality. I will remind you that 10 days ago the Civic Coalition club submitted a bill in the Seym guaranteeing 500 PLN for a tourist trip for each Polish woman and every Pole. And what did the president do? The President filed his bill yesterday guaranteeing 500 PLN, but only for a child. Therefore, a four-person family instead of getting 2,000. zł, he'll get $1,000. zł. I said, what about people who don't have children? What about people who have adults? Why does President Duda forget these people? Why does he feel that helping these people doesn't belong? Everyone's due. It is a pity that instead of helping all Poles, President Duda divides Poles again into better and worse and proposes a poor fake of good, reported by us 10 days [[♪ The bell ♪]] This idea. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Tourist voucher. Or $1,000. zł or 500 zł - let's skip these amounts. Consider how much it costs to travel one child per week during the holiday period. That's $2,000. zł. In families with many children, at three, four children are 8,000. zł. The question is whether the poor Polish families will be able to afford it. But let's think about something else. Here is the question: What to do with families that are excluded from IT? How are they going to apply for this voucher? How many of these kids won't go? These statistics are open to the public. I think it's important to think about it so that the kilometers of queues do not stand before the ZUS, which will support families who will not be able to cope with the e-platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to explain to the High House the article. 43, which was reported in parliamentary mode as a drop-off at the end of the presidential project. The representatives of the Legislative Bureau were talking about the failure of this procedure, the suspicion of non-constitutionality, but the matter to which this amendment relates is important. It is about the possibility of providing support for investment tasks for local government units. We ask in this arrangement: What tasks? What's the amount? When will this program be running? Is the Minister so busy that she was unable to prepare a government project on such an important matter? Second thing. We have already established in the course of the work that, however, this voucher will not be able to benefit (the bell) from organizing leisure sports clubs not having the status of a public benefit organisation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From your noisy announcements about a $1,000 travel voucher. PLN for everyone, let's say, the employee was a voucher of 500 PLN for each child. Today, during the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, the Minister said that the tourist voucher would support families, but after all, the family is not just a family with children. They are also parents whose children are already adults. The family are also people who want to have children, but they can't, because the PiS has eliminated in vitro funding, replacing them with a very inefficient method of naprotechnology. What about those who raised children and worked hard? What about the pensioners? What about the students? What about all those who work and don't have children? They don't deserve a tourist voucher according to your project. Today you divide people into better and worse sort. Today you decide who deserves a travel voucher and who doesn't deserve one. You have the chance to improve this, to act fairly and honestly (the bell) and to take advantage of our proposal, from our proposed June 9th project. [[Applause]] Everyone's due. Give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u272	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There isn't. So, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, my constituents asked me to remind the representatives of the President that the PiS government promised everyone who worked in Poland in May 1 000 each. zł in the form of a tourist voucher. Well, they do. Some kids have $1.5,000. My constituents asked me to remind the representatives of the President. Why, Mr. President, didn't you remember about pensioners and pensioners? Why didn't you remember this group? Our Rhodes - they say - this is not Rhodes outside the country, these are family gardens and only this. I also have one specific question, namely: Can a voucher for children with disabilities be combined with a subsidy from PFRON as a complement to their own contribution? This is very important. And one last thing. I am surprised at this process here, that it has not been passed on to the tourism committee... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. ...that there was no talking to the industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u274	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The first question is the following. The Social Insurance Institution receives another task. We stand up, I stand on the side of ZUS employees, who are really heavily charged at the moment as a result of those laws that have been adopted as regards the COVID laws. So is there any way that the government plans to reimburse the Social Insurance Institution for additional costs so that the entire operation related to this bill can be carried out? And then there's the other thing. Indeed, Art. 43 states that the Council of Ministers may determine, by resolution, the rules for the distribution and transfer of investment support for tasks for local government units, the scope, manner and date of submission of this information. So my question is: What are the rules for these funds to be divided, what amount it will be, and whether it will be (the bell) sometimes... Thank you. ...giving only for your own? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The second month in a row falls real wages of Poles and Poles. The labour market has shrunk by 270 thousand. employment. The welfare rate of Poles and Poles recorded a huge drop and is already lower than in 2009 and certainly a hole still ahead of us. Meanwhile, the Minister is still in a good mood, although he is dealing with emergency relief rather than systemic. On the other hand, it seems that there is a second wave of epidemic, because the freezing of the economy for 2 months, including tourism, has only removed the problem. The number of patients and deaths is rising again and the average is probably higher than in May, daylight, and I would like to ask why we could go on the June weekend, Minister, and we could not go on the May weekend, since today the increase in diseases is greater. When are you going from chaos to strategy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u278	Thank you very much. And last question, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u279	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! That 500 zloty, that bon is a good idea. It's a good thing the government decided to support the president's proposal. It's too bad it's not a $1,000 voucher we talked about... It could be 1500 or 2. ...about which employees, employers, people who will benefit from it have heard. I have a specific question for the Prime Minister because the Prime Minister has a good heart and sometimes it helps, it does. Is it possible that we could have these 500 zlotys, e.g. Did they try to promise next year? Because today you will not support these amendments concerning 1000 PLN. Okay. But is there any chance that today there will also be a promise from this speaker: this year 500, and this voucher is extended, or in 2021 another 500? 2,000. Right away, sir. 2,000. Honestly, specifically, to everyone, whether right or left. It is important that Poles can leave and go on holiday. Prime Minister, to you, but also to Minister Fly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u280	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Paweł Mucha asked for the floor of the Deputy Head of the President's Office. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u281	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Yes, the president is fulfilling his promises, the president is fulfilling his agenda. Yes, the president is doing his job, his office. Bu ha ha ha! Also when there are special needs concerning issues related to the fight against the coronavirus, social, economic and economic consequences, not only health, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda takes up these challenges. We have a special situation. We have a situation related to the fight against the world pandemic, which affected Polish entrepreneurs to a particular extent, and among Polish entrepreneurs - especially the tourism industry. We know that this support for the tourism industry is needed today. Thus the President immediately took action and the effect of these actions, which were undertaken in consultation with the Ministry of Development, is presented to you by the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone. These are solutions expected by Polish entrepreneurs today, but these are also solutions, contrary to what was said here, consulted with the environment of Polish entrepreneurs. These work, which was carried out, are consultations which were conducted directly by Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz as well, but these are consultations which were conducted and the President's Office very widely. President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, directly cooperating with either the National Development Council or the Council for the Development of Poland. Entrepreneurship, or with experts, but also meeting with Poles all over Poland, including tourist entrepreneurs, these assumptions of the project were consulted on an ongoing basis. The result of this discussion is the bill submitted. This support has a double fixing, because on the one hand this is support, as we say, for entrepreneurs, on the other hand, you are absolutely right, it is support for the Polish family. If today we analyse the content of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and look at the content of the article. 18, which also provides specific support, protection of the family, if we look at the provision of the article. 68, where is the speech also on the right to health, Art. 69, which provides support for disabled persons, Article. 71, which is a priority for supporting the family, are these provisions and these constitutional conditions are also modelled in this project. Today this voucher is 500 PLN for every Polish child, also for the one who is in foster care. But for a disabled child this is an additional 500 PLN, which is 1,000 PLN. zł support when a disabled child is being raised in foster care or in the family. For millions of Polish families who have two or more children, this is more than the fulfillment of the announcements that appeared in public space earlier, because it was mentioned about 1,000. Evil on the family. And then when we were talking about $1,000. PLN per family was also mentioned in the framework of the financing of this programme co-financing by employers. However, there were such voices, which were finally taken into account in this project, that today, due to the difficult situation of Polish entrepreneurs, it is not possible to co-finance them. Therefore, this solution, which has been adopted, is an absolutely optimal solution. This solution, which on the one hand provides support for the Polish tourism industry, on the other hand also supports the Polish family, in particular taking into account the needs of people who raise disabled children. I will address the broad issues. Tourist event, hotel services - these are concepts that are also defined in this Act. As far as the tourist event is concerned, it is defined in a very broad way: it will be rehabilitation tours, it can also be trips that are organized with special attention to the needs of children. Thus, it is not true that the law, by its scope, in any way restricts the possibility of using these measures. No. Starting from accommodation, through hotels and scout camps, rehabilitation tours, through all possible forms of rest this help will reach Polish children and Polish families. Moreover, anyone who applies to the Social Insurance Institution will be able to obtain assistance in relation to the code handling system that will be directly used for payment. The US is prepared to serve every potential beneficiary of such a programme, i.e. parents or legal guardians of these children. A special infoline will also be launched where anyone interested will be able to obtain information. We are also planning a broad information campaign. We absolutely want a wide range of beneficiaries of this programme to be notified in detail about the implementation of this project. As far as the President's promises are concerned, as I said, these promises are being fulfilled. In the coming days, the draft Act on the Medical Fund will be submitted to work. As far as support for Western Pomerania is concerned, especially districts such as: Świnoujście, kolębrzeski, stone, grzyficki will benefit from the measures provided for in this programme. Investments in the Western Pomerania - several times this came back here - have never been as big as in the times of President Andrzej Duda, who is particularly concerned about the development of marginalised regions or forgotten by previous governments. We want the sustainable development of Poland as a whole, we want people from smaller towns, villages, cities to have the same equal opportunities and Poland to develop evenly. This program, too, contrary to what you say, is common. He doesn't rule anyone out. And you really have to be extremely bad of will to forget the support that the President expects for pensioners. And here you can list programs such as: 13th retirement, free medicines for seniors. I'm announcing this initiative, which the president was also talking about, which is the 75+ Health Center. Today, the income of the average family, the disposable income of the Polish family is an absolute priority when it comes to President Andrzej Duda's presidency, and we are implementing it together with the Polish government. The hourly rate for civil law contracts has increased, minimum wage increases, income increases, which are at the disposal of the Polish family. This is the special concern of the President who's looking forward to it. This was his programme, which he announced in 2015, and this programme is consistently being implemented by him. 6 million Polish children will benefit from these solutions we are talking about, 300,000. children with disabilities. It is 4 billion PLN, which will serve entrepreneurs who are active in the tourism industry. As I said, both the Social Insurance Institution and the Polish Tourism Organization are ready to implement this law, which, in cooperation with these entities, was prepared. Contrary to what you say, the beneficiaries of this scheme, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, are 85%. - that's the estimate - there will be micro- and small entrepreneurs. Given all these circumstances, this bill needs to be adopted, because these are good solutions. There were words here about the Civic Coalition project. Ladies and gentlemen, so adamant to say, I would like to put it this way: issues relating to the rules, the mode of making available, the execution of the cheque have been referred back to the regulation by means of a regulation. This delegation was of a blank nature and did not contain any guidelines on how to regulate this issue. So if someone's talking about a sausage voter, sometimes you have to look at yourself critically. [[Applause]] It was an election sausage, only prepared unprofessionally, on a blank code without any analysis. After all, if we look at the 6 billion zlotys you are talking about, that it was intended to ensure a universal share of this check, and you look at the 4 billion zlotys that are set up in this presidential project, and you will see that there are as many beneficiaries here as the law indicates, 6 million Polish children, neither the economic bill nor any assessment of the effects of the regulation nor any regulations... It's a complete fiction. And you're gonna deny it yourself. There were voices here, including Members of the Left, on the concerns about the electronic formula, and you yourself assumed an application in this regard. So while caring for this service, we have prepared the ZUS to carry out this project, and you have not made any substantive proposal. Since when are the kids gonna benefit? It is that these legal solutions, if they are adopted, and I hope that they will be adopted at today's Sejm meeting... As soon as the Senate accepts. ...and if the Senate - this is an appeal to the State - takes effective action, then, God forbid, in July these funds will still be available to the beneficiaries of this programme. And that's what we wish for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u282	Thank you very much, Minister. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! First of all, I would like to thank all Members for their hard work on this project today. Yes, we are aware that we are working again at an express pace, but this is the pace that the market requires of us today, and that is the pace that the economy requires of us today. I am also pleased that the accusations you have made here are accusations that we are fulfilling our promises. Here the litany of these promises has been mentioned and all these promises have been fulfilled. [[Applause]] 100,000. housing, helping the franchise. This is the special mark of the camp of the United Right, that is how we implement the programs we declare. Not all of them. I am also very pleased with the slogan used here by Mr Raś: to release the energy of Poles. Thank you for quoting me from Krakow on January 13, 2019, the announced programme for the development of renewable energy, which has benefited several million Poles today and has thus deducted PLN 3 billion last year. You grew up in our political environment. Yeah, we're efficient and consistent. For your own. With this consequence, we implement our programs. We're not declaring. We're working. Constraint and work. [[Joy in the Chamber]] With regard to the doubts and questions that have been raised here, as well as by thanking and acknowledging that the High House has indeed accepted in its first shield a solution for the tourism industry, which has allowed it to postpone the payment of unpaid travel services, we hope that we will also accept this legislative proposal in agreement this time. We are talking about whether the measures we propose are sufficient for the industry. I think we can say to ourselves clearly and openly that the measures from the shield, all the aid that we propose, through which we try to save as many companies as possible, will probably fail, will not be sufficient or complete. That is why this is not our last word in the tourism industry. This programme will contribute to the transfer to the industry of PLN 4 billion, almost PLN 4 billion, but to it we need to add 4 billion from the financial shield, which already received more than 15 thousand. companies in the tourism industry. Therefore, to answer the question of why there is no liquidity fund - that is the liquidity fund. Deadly loans up to 80% , in 3 days available in the accounts of entrepreneurs - this is real aid, which from 29 April flows to entrepreneurs, including the tourism industry. You say this is the payment of the thirteenth benefit of 500+. I will only quote today Prof. Hanna Zawistowska from the School of Economics, who said clearly: The most important thing in this project is that the funds go directly to the accounts and are to be addressed directly to the tourism industry. Thanks to this, parents whose many studies point to, and here thank you, because one of the messengers said about it, who do not even think about whether they can send their children on vacation, will be able to finance camps, sports camps for their children, because it will not be a paycheck on their parents' account. It will be an IT system, an IT number, a blockchain system in which you will pay for the customer. This is therefore a modern solution - answering another question - which does not generate excessive staff resources in the Social Insurance Institution or in the Polish Tourist Organization. It generates an IT and algorithmic effort, because it will be another solution that can be implemented automatically at payment points. Therefore, this solution is also followed by further modernisation of the Polish administration system. Have the local authorities been consulted? Yeah, we talked to local governments. For several weeks now, I have been in constant dialogue with representative organisations represented on the committee of the common government and local government. In extraordinary mode, in shortened mode, but yes, that's what we do. We do not do this, as you say, in the electoral scarf, but in a feverous pandemic state, because we talked about this solution and analyzed it, and the President undertook to prepare the bill at the beginning of April. So let's not race, who first submitted the project to the Sejm... But it's vacation time, Prime Minister. It's vacation time. That's what the kids are waiting for. ...but let's talk about when the project, which project is ready to be implemented and when will be the first benefit. And as Minister Mucha said, if the Senate does not delay, we are ready for organizationally, the Social Insurance Institution, the Polish Tourism Organization, so that in the third week of July the first payments can be made... It wasn't until the third. It wasn't until the third. ...so that in July (the bell) these payments can be made. The provision of services to children in hotels. Of course, we pay for the hotel, if I'm a parent with a child... Of course, for a child exempt from the fee at the hotel the parent will be able to pay because it is not assigned to the child. Having a child is an admission card, while witnessing serves... it is a family benefit. And the kids who will be on vacation at the beginning of July? They're better and worse children. Here's another piece. You have said here and here that this is another pro-inflationary instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about additional funds, additional bonds. We are talking about using the already constructed COVID fund, the 100 billion that are already there today. And within this 100 billion, almost 4 billion will be targeted at the tourism industry. If we're talking about inflation, then, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you know the data. The inflation for May is 2.9%. She was 4.3 in January, today it's 2.9. Yeah, there's a lot of elements that make up this, and there's also a reduced price for a barrel of oil, but that's what's happening today. These are real facts today, this is the moment that empowers us to take ambitious social programmes to undertake ambitious economic programmes, and that is why we are doing this. The last piece. It is perhaps because it is not a sausage, it is a real aid scheme for the tourism industry on the one hand and for supporting families on the other hand. Let's remind you, this voucher goes to over 6 million children, 6.4. million children are beneficiaries of this scheme. This is 2.5 million families, of which almost 2 million are families with at least two children, and thus in these families this 1 000. Evil will be real support. In this way, we support mainly the small and medium-sized enterprises that Minister Mucha referred to, and we hope that thanks to, among others, to. we will be able to maintain the heart rate of the Polish tourism sector. And we say that's not our last word. In answer to the last question that was put here, is there a chance for a extension? I think we will be able to, because when we started talking about instruments supporting the Polish tourism industry, we were thinking at the beginning of this year, before the pandemic, we were talking about some permanent solutions that were needed. We have analysed what kind of support other countries and in Europe and beyond offer to the tourism industry. And we hope that if we end this year with the prospects that international experts are talking about today, that the Polish economy will be the one that will suffer the least from the effects of the pandemic because of the fact that it has offered rapid, effective and customs assistance, then we will be able to talk about the fact that such a programme will be able to extend for the following years, that it will enter into the landscape of support and enter into the development of the tourism industry, because it is a business card and often opens gates for large, serious investors. That's how we understand our mission. That's how we understand our mission. Today it requires quick decisions, and we appeal for such quick decisions today and we ask you to do so. And the retirees? There was also a question about what the industry needs today. As I mentioned to you this morning, we are in constant dialogue with the industry, we are talking with representatives of the broadly understood sector. Yes, we know that today the industry needs loans that the de minimis guarantees from BGK to 80% are too small for this industry. That is why today we are working on a package that will guarantee loans even more than 80%. I also told you about September, which will be a difficult payback period for these services. And with the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, we also have some assumptions for changes. As I said, we are talking less, we are working more, we are bringing well-designed solutions and we are counting on your cooperation in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And the retirees?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u284	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to join the third reading of the draft law without referring it back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. If we have an objection, we will join the voting block to vote on this. I'm declaring a three-minute break. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 06 hours 20 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are in front of the voting block, we will proceed with the quorum check. I ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. It's not working. I know it doesn't work because mine doesn't work either. Relax, I'm waiting. Three more weeks and it'll all work out like this, Marshal. You'll see. It's working. There you go, it's all working out. Please press any button. Thank you. The session shall be attended by 416 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Senate adopted a resolution on the Solidarity Supplement Act to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. The Senate's resolution is 426. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of this resolution. I propose, on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, examination of the resolution without prior referral to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on bank loan interest subsidies to ensure liquidity for operators affected by the effects of COVID-19, print No 441. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 425. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the first transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp and the commemoration of the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Nazi Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps, print No. 424. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the first transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp and the commemoration of the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Nazi Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps (print No.424). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp and the commemoration of the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Nazi German Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps. On 14 June 1940, Polish citizens were transported to the German Nazi Auschwitz concentration camp from Tarnów prison. Among the 728 first prisoners were both political activists, soldiers of the September campaign, government officials, teachers, lawyers, priests and youth - scouts, seniors and students. The date of their arrival marked the beginning of the Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp, which became a symbol of unimaginable cruelty and genocide. For most of them, the way in which the prisoners set out proved irretrievable - very few survived the hell of the camp. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland established in 2006 the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of German Nazi Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps on 14 June. It is our duty to commemorate the events that took place in the lands occupied by Nazi Germany. The Holocaust, the enslavement and extermination of Poles, Jews, Roma and representatives of many other nations are for us a warning and commitment to actions that will make such crimes impossible to happen again. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors all the victims of German Nazi death camps. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp and commemorating the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Nazi German Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Solidarity Supplement Act granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19 (print No 426). I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. Point 2 (3) of the Senate proposes to amend the reference to the provisions of the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 4 for, 427 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (2) of the Senate proposes that this provision concerns an employment contract. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. In - 3, 438 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Senate proposes that the solidarity allowance should be granted to the person entitled to PLN 1500 per calendar month. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 239 - for, 208 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Senate proposes to supplement the title of the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 235 for, 215 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 11 The Senate proposes to refer back the entire title of the Act together with the yearbook. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 72. 1 Act on employment promotion and employment market institutions The Senate proposes that the amount of unemployment benefit should be PLN 1500 per month. Amendments 6, 7 and 9 are combined with this amendment. I propose that the Sejm give its consent to the total vote on amendments 6 to 9. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the amendments. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 6 to 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 248 - for, 196 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Solidarity Supplement Act granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on Government and Senate drafts of laws amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The additional committee report shall be in print No 419-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund, print No 418, and on the Senate bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, print No 283. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at today's meeting, requests that all amendments be rejected and that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. This is a very important project that repairs the legal framework that the Civic Platform did in 2012 by increasing the retirement age at the expense of those taking retirement from the 1953 year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u286	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 419. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 114 of the amended act. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 194 and the amended act. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 210 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 212 - for, 229 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 419 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 445 for, 5 against, 6 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The additional committee report shall be in print No 417-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, print No 415. At its meeting on 19 June, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 417 to the committee in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 19 June 2020, asks the High Sejm to reject amendments 1, 2 and 3 - and it is also a proposal to vote on these amendments together - and Amendment 4 to accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u288	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 417. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 27 - for, 409 - against, 15 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 The Law amending the applicant proposes a new wording of the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 440 - for, 7 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 417, along with the amendment adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 443 for, 4 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution amending the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft resolution at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to the committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft resolution at first reading. We are voting on the motion for rejection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution in print No 421 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 224 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the motion to proceed to second reading without delay. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution in print No 421, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 240 for, 207 against, six stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We therefore proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Your marshal, yet... Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at second reading? Mr Braun. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u289	God bless you! Just a moment, sir, just a moment. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. You're welcome, sir, two minutes. Objection. Objection, Marshal. I justify your objection to the Marshal's proposal to limit the performance of clubs and circles to 2 minutes. No, sir. Mr President, we are voting against. Let's vote opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u290	We vote against the opposition. My proposal is two minutes, and there's been an objection. That's why we're gonna vote it out. Who's behind the two-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels, please press the button. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know it's not working. It's working. It's working. Who's in favour of my proposal for a 2-minute statement? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, 217 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. I therefore open the discussion to which Mr Braun has spoken. You're welcome, sir. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u291	Ladies and gentlemen! You have introduced a regime here, which is still in modern history, i.e. The post-Peerell history, this House was gone. Following the regulatory changes that you put in the letter, there were in practice solutions that were not written anywhere, and which derogatory the seriousness of this procedure in which we all participate. This was not yet the case for Members to close and, when regulating access, to open the doors of the members, the excellent Marshal's Guard, after a number of embarrassing situations connected with the regulation of access to this speaker, but also the regulation of time. These are practical complications in the work of the Sejm Committees... Get to the point. ...the freezing of parliamentary teams - all on pretext, of course, of the pandemic and the fight against the TV virus. Don't prolong this state, don't prolong it, don't continue. Let us return to a standard that has not always been satisfactory for us, but we prefer to return to it. [[Applause]] Mr Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u292	Thank you very much. There you go, it complements Mr Dziambor's time. Leave it for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u293	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You know that, so I'm not gonna tell you, I'm gonna talk more to the citizens, the Poles who are listening to us right now. Ladies and gentlemen, Members come here for free, by car, by train, and arrive by plane for free. They sleep here for free at a hotel or an apartment. They eat here, in the restaurant and in the buffet, for 1/3 of the market price, so it can actually be considered free as well. All Members have to do is come here, to this House, and sit here, in those places where they are to gather and where they are to vote, where they are to decide what will be in the country where they are to manage Poland. And the Law and Justice are telling us today that they don't want to do it, they prefer to do it from home. We'll be against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u294	Thank you very much. Oh, you still want to finish. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To those Members who sit in a bathrobe on a sofa with a tablet in their hand: You're used to it. But I'll tell you one thing: get to work. On the train, come here, sit down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to look you in the eye when you vote for another tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] This is a total mess, as always.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. There you go. Now on behalf of the Law and Justice, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to support the proposal presented by the Member in her original form. I would like to remind the High House that when we adopted the rules on the remote vote in March, then really no one had ever imagined what a pandemic was and in what direction... You can make weddings. We considered that these provisions should be introduced for a transitional period until the end of June. On the other hand, the basic provisions of Section III of the Rules of Procedure - 198a up to j - clearly state what to do when there is a pandemic. And if we didn't introduce that rule, there might be paralysis of the state, paralysis of the High House. You remember how we wanted to change the rules, what was the problem at the time, that the High House had to come forward - everyone had to come forward, most of them - to vote for a remote vote. What if there was such a situation that MEPs were all in isolation suddenly, we all had quarantine? How are we going to vote on the rules to get back to the remote vote? After all, there will be paralysis of the Polish state. Therefore, we must decide that we are restoring this original form of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, that in a situation where there is a state of emergency or pandemic, your marshal may decide to vote remotely or not. There's no one here in the mask. And just consider the security issue and the state. Some of you haven't even been to the Sejm yet, they're the elderly, they're the people at risk. Why do you want to force them to come here and not allow them to vote remotely? We've got a ticket to file. There are those who don't want to come here. Allow them to do so for their own safety. Mr, who spoke about the dangers associated with secret committees, that here in a secret way... After all, secret meetings are held, Mr, of all kinds, there are secret committees. So that there is no problem that the Sejm does not sit secretly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not listening. You misheard me. Thank you, sir. So that I ask the High House to support this project, because it is for our own safety all of us and for the interests of the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u298	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Leo... Excuse me, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Shame. Shame. I am here at every meeting and I am alive, sir, and I am alive. [[Applause]] The Seym is bothering you. You from the Sejm want to make an outhouse for the government. I already told you that in the first vote. And the Sejm is not the government's outbuilding. The Seym is supposed to control you. The Sejm is to sit at its meetings. You guys are really having an ugly time because you're playing with the constitution. Ooh... Can you read it? Today I heard from your president... The Polish President. ...that we wipe our mouths with a constitution. But you guys trample and spit on her every day here in this Seym. [[Applause]] Bravo! That's enough! And that's it. And that's really enough. And there's no way that's gonna happen. And don't tell us it's like a pandemic or a state of emergency. And who decides there's a pandemic or a state of emergency? It's up to you. You guys really... It even started innocently: night voting, 30 seconds for questions, speeches without any mode. How does it end? You're putting out the Seym. You want to get rid of us because we're both bothering you because you're afraid of us... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ha, ha, ha! Because you're scared of us here. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] And you, Marshal... Mr. Marshal, that's good, 'cause I'd rather not say it. After you, these railings and the police will be left in place of the Sejm. And that's what you're gonna have in history. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u300	Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Emilevich: Can you hear me? Yeah, okay. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ha, ha, ha! In the sense of responsibility for the health and life of Poles [[Applause]] The left club has supported all government efforts to reduce the effects of the spread of COVID-19 since the onset of the epidemic and subsequent epidemic. I'm afraid so. The possibility of holding meetings of the Sejm, committees and subcommittees using electronic means has often exceeded the limits of good parliamentary custom. Meetings of the Sejm are called - and also canceled - practically from day to day, under the dictation of the governing party, the electoral calendar, the expectations of an ordinary Member... Under such conditions, it is impossible to plan honest, honest work in districts, cannot be prepared honestly and responsibly for meetings or committee work. Truly, not all Members live in the capital. I call on Members of the PiS to take an example from Mr Kaczyński, who is always in the Chamber, while here there is always free space. [[Applause]] We have many reservations about working in committees. The work in committees looks very bad: three, four people in 30-person committees, the rest remotely, with tablets, eating a meal, maybe mowing grass in their estates. The Left strongly advocates the restoration of the Seym before the outbreak. We simply owe it to all citizens and citizens (the bell) who bravely endure the hardships of working under these conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 421, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 for, 217 against, 5 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution amending the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The formal proposal is made by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. Please. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask that, before the vote on the fourth COVID shield, the Prime Minister submit a report on the implementation of the three previous targets, which he was obliged to do in Article. 35th Act of March 2, the first COVID shield. Every three months, the Prime Minister was supposed to submit information. It's June 19th and there's still no information. We expect the Prime Minister to finally tell us who made the money on COVID, which respirators you bought and how much, how many of the 1200 ventilators that the Ministry of Health was supposed to buy, was actually bought, why the Material Reserve Agency buys respirators of 70,000 each, and Minister Szumowski buys the same respirators of 200,000 each, why the post office paid 117 zł for the vote bags, and can normally buy them after 17 zł (The Bell), why you pay for masks and pay for several dozen zlotys, and you can buy them for 3 zł. We expect this information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. You're aware that this is not a formal conclusion, are you? We're not voting on him. He is, Your Marshal, fully formal. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate Resolution on the Act on bank loan interest subsidies to ensure liquidity for COVID-19 (prints Nos 427 and 441). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u305	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate's resolution on the Act on interest subsidies for bank loans granted to ensure liquidity for entrepreneurs affected by the effects of COVID-19. The report is contained in print No 441. In its resolution, the Senate proposed 126 amendments to Law 126. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering them at today's meeting, recommends rejecting 35 amendments and adopting 91 amendments, 32 of which are legislative and 59 amendments are substantive. At the same time, in view of the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the consensus, with no votes against the 91 amendments of the Senate, I propose that those amendments of the Senate, which the committee recommends to adopt, adopt in one joint vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-19-sejm-13-1.u306	Thank you. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. I propose to apply Resolution No 4 of the Polish Sejm of 7 March 2001 on the interpretation of the article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I propose that the Sejm, as requested, vote on amendments in total: from 1 to 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22 to 27, 29 to 34, 36, 39 to 44, 46, 47, 51 to 56, 58, 59, 63 to 66, 68 to 75, 77, 79 to 83, 85 to 88, 90, 91, 93, 95, 96, 99, 100, 101, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111, 114, 116, 117, 118, and 121 to 126, which the committee recommends to accept, and then on amendments recommended to reject according to the committee's report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection, Marshal. We proceed with the vote on opposition. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a vote on the Senate amendments just now will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 228 - for, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We move on to a joint review of amendments: 1 to 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22 to 27, 29 to 34, 36., 39 to 44, 46, 47, 51 to 56, 58, 59, 63 to 66, 68 to 75, 77, 79 to 83, 85 to 88, 90, 91, 93, 95, 96, 99, 100, 101, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111, 114, 116, 117, 118 and 121 to 126. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Can you say that again? They've been repeated twice. There'll be a vote, and I'll tell you again. He's so young, he can't concentrate. From 1st to 8th, 11th, 12th, 15th, 16th, 17th... Slow down? Are you following me, sir? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Like you said what's in 17. Mr President, it was on the committee. I don't see you interested in what I'm reading, sir. 455 Members voted. Five for, 440 against, ten abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 9th amendment to the article. 13 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 15 The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 16 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 244 - for, 206 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 18 The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 3 to 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 244 for, 207 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 23 The Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. Amendments 21, 38, 45, 61 and 113. The Senate shall delete Article 1 as appropriate. 26, 38, 45, 70 and 81. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, against - 220, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. Amendments 28, 49, 50, 62 and 119. The Senate shall delete point 1 of Article. 32, Art. 53, points 1 and 2 of Article. 55, as well as Article. 73 and 99. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 28, 49, 50, 62 and 119 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 35th amendment to the article. 33 The Senate proposes to add point 2. Amendment 105 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 35 and 105 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 233 - for, 221 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority. In the 37th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 37. Amendment 112 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 37 and 112 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 234 for, 220 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority. In the 48th amendment to the article. 47 The Senate proposes to add point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 48th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 233 - for, 214 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 57th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 60. Amendment 115 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 57 and 115 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 for, 214 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 60th amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 69. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 60th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against... Seven or nine? 60th Amendment. But seven or nine? I'm reading again. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 60th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 211 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 67th amendment, the Senate proposes to delete point 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 67th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 242 for, 210 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 76th amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to point 12. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 76th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 78th amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to point 12. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 78th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 - for, 208 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 84th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to point 16. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 84th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 89th amendment, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 26. Amendment 120 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 89 and 120 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 272 - for, 173 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 92nd amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraphs 29 to 31, 33 and 34. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 92nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 - for, 207 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 94th Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 32. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 94th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 97th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete paragraph 35. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 97th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 98th amendment, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 38. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 98th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 242 - for, 208 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 102nd amendment, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 47. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 102nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 109th amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 62. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 109th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? This isn't the end of the vote, ladies and gentlemen, so don't leave. The undisciplined club. 452 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 220, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act on bank loan interest subsidies granted to ensure liquidity for entrepreneurs affected by the effects of COVID-19. We return to item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs: In the course of the discussion, amendments were tabled and a request for a third reading was made following the delivery to the ladies and gentlemen of the table of amendments. I will put to the vote a motion for a third reading without referring it back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal to join the third reading of the draft law in print No 429 will press the button once the amendments have been submitted. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 216 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 429. The Commission also presents minority proposals. A summary of the amendments tabled was sent to ladies and gentlemen for print No 429. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 177 - for, 243 - against, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 455 Members voted. For - 184, against - 241, holding 30. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of Article. from 4 to 6. The adoption of the 1st minority proposal will render minority proposals from 2 to 4 irrelevant and amendments from 3 to 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 194, against - 244, the 13. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 4. The adoption of this amendment will render the 2nd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 207, against - 241, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 4, 5 and 6. Its adoption will render amendments 4, 5, 6 and minority proposals 3 and 4 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 200, against - 240, stopped 6. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 5. The adoption of this amendment will render minority proposals 3 and 4 irrelevant and amendments 5 and 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For -210, against - 229, holding down 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 5 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of minority proposals 3 and 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] 447 Members voted. 206 - for, 232 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 171 for, 277 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 172 - for, 277 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 5. 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 6. The adoption of this amendment will render the 5th minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 177 for, 234 against, 41 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority application, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 198 - for, 242 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1 and 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 209 - for, 235 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose e.g. the other wording of paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 206 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 10 applicants propose e.g. the other wording of paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 217 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 13 and Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 148 - for, 303 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th amendment to the article. 18 applicants propose e.g. the other wording of paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 203 - for, 234 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 18 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 216 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 19 applicants propose, inter alia, amendments to paragraph 1. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 21. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 206 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 22. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 202 - for, 241 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 23 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1.3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 25. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] At this hour, it's called a silly thing. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] 447 Members voted. 208 - for, 238 - against, and 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 26 applicants shall propose in paragraph 2. 1 in point 1, delete point 1. f. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, on a formal matter. Mr President, please give this formal proposal to me in writing, okay? I'm still gonna ask for... Please, sir, in writing. Please write it in writing. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] 444 Members voted. 211 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 41a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Who voted against? Selling alcohol online. In Poland you can buy, except through the Polish portal. I'm appealing for caution. With a formal application. I'll have one, too. Gentlemen, there are no conclusions. In writing, please. In writing. No, Marshal, we don't have to file formal applications in writing. But I'm asking. But, Marshal, you really need this amendment. 443 Members voted. 101 for, uh, 340, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 19th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 41a. Your marshal, no. This is a formal conclusion. You're welcome... We're voting. Your marshal, no. Your marshal, would you... Mr President, I have asked for a formal proposal in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and now we are voting. No, your marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment will want to press the button. But if you'd like to... Who's against it? ...especially since we want to talk about an important amendment... Who's holding back? ...and I'll say from here what I think the Left should say from here. The Confederation has tabled an amendment concerning us insulting the Minister of this Government today, i.e. To say that Minister, Prime Minister Emilewicz had her own helicopter to spread money over Poland at every call. This is ridiculous, except it's insulting people in this room. The Left strongly opposes us allowing such amendments, and we stand up for the dignity of this House, the House, which should respect both the law and the left of all parliamentarians, including the government. Prime Minister, you should react as well. There is no right of any Member or Member to be insulted in this Chamber, especially... on the side of the Government. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Your Marshal, could I, though, if you're here... Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to hold back. I'm not gonna... No, sir, no. And it was so nice. Yeah, it was. I was just trying to answer you because he criticized us in a very unpleasant way. In the clowns. Then you'll answer in the cockroaches. In the clowns... Mr Dziambor is a heavyweight. ...the distribution of money... Sir, you're going to calm down, okay? That's enough. This amendment was indeed curial. I'm not gonna comment on that, so I'm really asking you to stay calm right now. 285 Members voted. 32 for, 244 against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 43a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 217 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 45a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 45b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 46.50. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 207 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 45a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 165 - for, 282 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're going to vote on the whole thing. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 429 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 424 - for, 16 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the Polish Tourist Bon. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 425). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 425 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 425 - for, 1 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 13th meeting of the Polish Sejm. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. That concludes 13. meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Information on the date and agenda of the 14th session of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 17]]
